Hashimoto Says Comfort-Women Remarks Were 'Distorted'.


After a deluge of international criticism following his comments on enforced wartime prostitution by the Japanese military, outspoken Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto made a rare appearance in front of the foreign media Monday to explain himself to the world.

In front of 300 journalists, photographers and TV staff, Mr. Hashimoto insisted that the media was to blame for distorting his comments. He spent three hours largely standing his ground and dodging questions about where he stood on the issue of the Japanese military's wartime involvement in the coercion and trafficking of women-mostly from Japan's colonies-to military brothels.


European Pressphoto Agency
Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto explaining himself MondayAt the same time, he pointed an accusatory finger at the Allied Powers, as well as South Korea, for having their own skeletons in the closet when it came to military exploitation of women.

The appearance of Mr. Hashimoto, co-leader of Japan's second largest opposition party, came after he said earlier in May that the forcing into prostitution of so-called comfort women by the Japanese military during World War II was "necessary" for maintaining military discipline at the time.

"I find it extremely deplorable that news reports have continued to assume the opposite interpretation of my remarks and to depict me as holding women in contempt," Mr. Hashimoto said in his opening remarks. "What I intended to conveyÅcwas that other nations should also sincerely face the fact that their soldiers violated the human rights of women."

He added that puritanical values may have prevented countries like the U.S. and U.K. from setting up official military brothels, but "it's a fact that they were using local women" in the war.

Mr. Hashimoto, who shares leadership of the Japan Restoration Party with rabble-rousing nationalist Shintaro Ishihara, deflected questions about the extent of the Japanese military and government's involvement in collecting and transporting unwilling women to "comfort stations." He said this issue should be addressed by historians, not politicians.

"From the viewpoint of respecting the human rights of women, it doesn't make much difference whether the suffering women are licensed or unlicensed prostitutes and whether or not the armed forces are organizationally involved," he said.

But he apologized and retracted his suggestion that U.S. servicemen based in Okinawa should utilize the local "adult entertainment" industry to relieve their sexual energy.

Mr. Hashimoto also began almost all his comments with a disclaimer that in no way does he excuse the Japanese military for having inflicted pain and suffering "beyond description" on the women.

The popularity of Mr. Hashimoto's JRP, which in its pre-launch form a year ago garnered more than double the support of the Liberal Democratic Party in opinion polls, has been falling since the LDP took office in December. But his recent remarks appear to have strengthened the downward trend.

In a Nikkei survey published Monday on July's upper-house elections, only 3% of those polled said they would vote for the JRP-down six percentage points from last month-while 47% percent said they would vote for the LDP.

Asked if he will step down from party leadership to take responsibility for the turmoil he has generated, Mr. Hashimoto said, "If the Japanese voters reject my recent comments, the JRP will probably take a hammering" in July.

"The party can decide then whether I should stay on as leader," he said.
