'Comfort women' gaffe wounds Osaka mayor
 

Six months ago Toru Hashimoto, the young, blunt mayor of Osaka, was threatening to upend Japan's political establishment, the Restoration party he founded in the country's second city rapidly becoming a national force.
 
Today, the man many thought would be a kingmaker after elections last December is fighting for his political life - part of a broader withering of Japanese opposition parties under the rule of Shinzo Abe, prime minister, who has led his own efforts to restore Japan as an economic and diplomatic power. 
 
On Monday, Mr Hashimoto appeared before foreign journalists in Tokyo to explain comments he made about Japan's wartime use of "comfort women" - the tens of thousands of women who worked in brutal conditions in Japanese military brothels, often after having been tricked or coerced into service.
 
Mr Hashimoto caused outrage this month when he appeared to defend the exploitation as a necessary and even justifiable outlet for soldiers in wartime. His statements were criticised by everyone from victims' groups to Mr Abe - a man who has himself questioned the degree of official responsibility Japan bears for the abuse the women suffered. 

Support for Restoration has fallen sharply: in one survey only 3 per cent of respondents said they would vote for the party in elections for the upper house of parliament this summer. It is a humiliating collapse for a party that came within a handful of seats of becoming the largest opposition group in December's lower-house poll.

Some in Japan see Mr Hashimoto's provocations as a deliberate attempt to rekindle enthusiasm for his cause - an attempt that went too far and backfired. A lawyer who first gained public attention as a sharp-tongued television commentator, he has built his career on a rare and often bracing contrarianism and may have overestimated the public's appetite for attacks on what he sees as suffocating political correctness.
 
Masatoshi Honda, an independent political scientist, noted that public support for Restoration was falling even before the comfort women controversy, as Mr Abe and his Liberal Democratic party pursued an aggressive economic growth agenda and co-opted Mr Hashimoto's appeal to national pride by declaring that "Japan is back" on the global stage.
 
"Abe says his ultimate goal is to restore Japan," Mr Honda said. "He is trying to do exactly what [the Restoration party] wanted to do."
 
Other opposition parties are also suffering, with the Democratic party Mr Abe defeated in December in disarray and polling at about 6 per cent. The LDP is the preferred party of about half of voters, and 70 per cent say they approve of the job Mr Abe's administration is doing.
 
Such numbers give Mr Abe hugely favourable odds of winning the upper house, where the LDP is in the minority, and consolidating his power.
 
Mr Hashimoto claimed on Monday that he had never endorsed the wartime brothels but had merely described the thinking of military commanders at the time. He called the use of comfort women, many of whom were recruited in Japanese-ruled Korea, "an inexcusable act that violated the dignity and human rights of the women".
 
The explanation appeared to conflict with Japanese press transcripts of his original remarks, which quote him as saying that, given the stress and danger experienced by soldiers in battle, "anyone can understand that the comfort women system was necessary".
 
Mr Hashimoto further undermined his credibility by saying that US soldiers on Okinawa should use the island's "adult entertainment industry" in order to reduce incidences of sexual assault on local women.
 
He apologised for that remark on Monday but stood by a number of other contentious assertions, including that Japan had been unfairly singled out over the comfort women given that other countries' armies were also guilty of sexual abuses.
 
A 1993 apology that Japan offered to former comfort women should be "clarified", he said, to shield Japan from exaggerated claims of state responsibility for the system, which relied heavily on local middlemen, and suggested the International Court of Justice be asked to settle a dispute with South Korea over compensation.
 
Yun Byung-Se, South Korea's foreign minister, called the latter suggestion "embarrassing and shameful" and called on Japan to engage in direct reparations talks.
 



Osaka mayor further qualifies 'comfort women' views
 

Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto speaks during a press conference at the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan in Tokyo in May, 2013. Photo: AFP
 
Tokyo: Seeking to quell an uproar over his recent comments suggesting that sexual slavery was a necessary evil in Japan's imperial past, a populist party leader said on Monday that he had not meant to justify wartime brothels or deny the women's suffering at the hands of Japanese soldiers.
 
But the politician, Toru Hashimoto, who heads the opposition Japan Restoration Association and is mayor of Osaka, Japan's third-largest city, also argued that Japan was being unfairly singled out for its use of so-called comfort women and that other nations needed to examine the mistreatment of women by their own militaries before pointing the finger at Tokyo.
 
"We must express our deep remorse at the violation of the human rights of these women by Japanese soldiers in the past, and make our apology to the women," Mr Hashimoto said, speaking to overseas journalists at the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan. But he added, "It is not a fair attitude to blame only Japan, as if the violation of human rights of women by soldiers were a problem unique to Japanese soldiers."
 
The conduct of the Japanese military in Asia before and during World War II remains a highly charged topic in the region. Many of Japan's neighbours say Tokyo has not properly atoned for its history of wartime atrocities, while segments of Japan's establishment feel that Japan has been unfairly demonised.
 
Advertisement 

Some historians estimate that 200,000 women were rounded up from across Asia to work as comfort women for the Japanese military. Other historians put that number in the tens of thousands and say they served of their own will. Japan formally apologised to the comfort women in 1993.
 
But Mr Hashimoto charged that the United States, Britain, France, Germany, and the former Soviet Union were guilty of similar violations of women's rights in World War II.
 
He also stood by a belief shared by many Japanese, including Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, that there was no evidence to suggest that Japan's wartime government directly forced women to serve in the brothels. He brushed aside testimony to the contrary from a number of women who has been enslaved as unreliable.
 
Mr Hashimoto's comments followed those of a string of Japanese politicians who have recently challenged what they say is a distorted view of Japan's wartime history. Last month, Mr Abe seemed to question whether Japan was the aggressor during the war, saying the definition of "invasion" was relative.
 
But even Mr Abe and his cabinet have distanced themselves from Mr Hashimoto in recent weeks as he tried to correct what he believes is an erroneous view of Japan's wartime history.
 
Mr Hashimoto's rants - sometimes in the form of an outpouring of dozens of posts on Twitter - have sparked furore from human rights groups here and alienated much of the public.
 
Mr Hashimoto's speech on Monday was as much a plea to domestic voters before parliamentary elections this summer as it was an attempt to reach out to global public opinion.
 
Recent ratings for Mr Hashimoto, who was once seen as a possible contender for prime minister, have plummeted, and a smaller party has called off plans to cooperate in the coming elections, citing his remarks on women.
 
During his speech, Mr Hashimoto apologised for suggesting to a senior US military official stationed on the island of Okinawa that US troops at bases there should make more use of the local adult entertainment industry to reduce sexual crimes against local women.
 
"That was not what I meant," Mr Hashimoto said. "My real intention was to prevent a mere handful of American soldiers from committing crimes. In attempting to act on my strong commitment to solving the problem in Okinawa stemming from crimes committed by a minority of US soldiers, I made an inappropriate remark."
 
Still, Mr Hashimoto did not shy away from delving into his interpretation of the experience of women who served as sex slaves.
 
Many wartime brothels were run not by Japanese, but by local brokers on the Korean Peninsula and elsewhere, he said. And though some brothels were run by Japan's wartime military, he said the military's main task was to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases for the sake of the women.
 
He stressed that while Japanese military boats and trucks were sometimes used to transport women to the brothels, authorities themselves were not deeply involved in the coercion of women. He said he did not believe Japan's actions at the time amounted to human trafficking.
 
Banri Kaieda, who leads the opposition Democratic Party, advised Mr Hashimoto to stop talking before he made the situation even worse.
 
"There is a Chinese saying, 'You cannot wrap a fire with paper,'?" Mr Kaieda said at a news conference. With Mr Hashimoto, he said, "It's as if he is trying to wrap it with oil instead."
 
