'Comfort women' gaffe wounds Osaka mayor
 

Six months ago Toru Hashimoto, the young, blunt mayor of Osaka, was threatening to upend Japan's political establishment, the Restoration party he founded in the country's second city rapidly becoming a national force.
 
Today, the man many thought would be a kingmaker after elections last December is fighting for his political life - part of a broader withering of Japanese opposition parties under the rule of Shinzo Abe, prime minister, who has led his own efforts to restore Japan as an economic and diplomatic power. 
 
On Monday, Mr Hashimoto appeared before foreign journalists in Tokyo to explain comments he made about Japan's wartime use of "comfort women" - the tens of thousands of women who worked in brutal conditions in Japanese military brothels, often after having been tricked or coerced into service.
 
Mr Hashimoto caused outrage this month when he appeared to defend the exploitation as a necessary and even justifiable outlet for soldiers in wartime. His statements were criticised by everyone from victims' groups to Mr Abe - a man who has himself questioned the degree of official responsibility Japan bears for the abuse the women suffered. 

Support for Restoration has fallen sharply: in one survey only 3 per cent of respondents said they would vote for the party in elections for the upper house of parliament this summer. It is a humiliating collapse for a party that came within a handful of seats of becoming the largest opposition group in December's lower-house poll.

Some in Japan see Mr Hashimoto's provocations as a deliberate attempt to rekindle enthusiasm for his cause - an attempt that went too far and backfired. A lawyer who first gained public attention as a sharp-tongued television commentator, he has built his career on a rare and often bracing contrarianism and may have overestimated the public's appetite for attacks on what he sees as suffocating political correctness.
 
Masatoshi Honda, an independent political scientist, noted that public support for Restoration was falling even before the comfort women controversy, as Mr Abe and his Liberal Democratic party pursued an aggressive economic growth agenda and co-opted Mr Hashimoto's appeal to national pride by declaring that "Japan is back" on the global stage.
 
"Abe says his ultimate goal is to restore Japan," Mr Honda said. "He is trying to do exactly what [the Restoration party] wanted to do."
 
Other opposition parties are also suffering, with the Democratic party Mr Abe defeated in December in disarray and polling at about 6 per cent. The LDP is the preferred party of about half of voters, and 70 per cent say they approve of the job Mr Abe's administration is doing.
 
Such numbers give Mr Abe hugely favourable odds of winning the upper house, where the LDP is in the minority, and consolidating his power.
 
Mr Hashimoto claimed on Monday that he had never endorsed the wartime brothels but had merely described the thinking of military commanders at the time. He called the use of comfort women, many of whom were recruited in Japanese-ruled Korea, "an inexcusable act that violated the dignity and human rights of the women".
 
The explanation appeared to conflict with Japanese press transcripts of his original remarks, which quote him as saying that, given the stress and danger experienced by soldiers in battle, "anyone can understand that the comfort women system was necessary".
 
Mr Hashimoto further undermined his credibility by saying that US soldiers on Okinawa should use the island's "adult entertainment industry" in order to reduce incidences of sexual assault on local women.
 
He apologised for that remark on Monday but stood by a number of other contentious assertions, including that Japan had been unfairly singled out over the comfort women given that other countries' armies were also guilty of sexual abuses.
 
A 1993 apology that Japan offered to former comfort women should be "clarified", he said, to shield Japan from exaggerated claims of state responsibility for the system, which relied heavily on local middlemen, and suggested the International Court of Justice be asked to settle a dispute with South Korea over compensation.
 
Yun Byung-Se, South Korea's foreign minister, called the latter suggestion "embarrassing and shameful" and called on Japan to engage in direct reparations talks.
 


Japanese mayor apologises for saying US troops should use sex industry

But Toru Hashimoto defends Japan's role in recruitment of 'comfort women' to work in brothels during second world war


Toru Hashimoto drew condemnation when he said the military's use of sex slaves had been necessary to maintain discipline among Japanese troops.


Toru Hashimoto, the controversial mayor of Osaka, has apologised for suggesting that US troops in Japan should visit commercial sex establishments as a way of reducing the number of sexual assaults.

But he defended his claim that Japan's military government played no direct part in recruiting tens of thousands of Asian women to work in frontline brothels before and during the second world war.

Hashimoto, who is also co-leader of the rightwing Japan Restoration party, drew widespread condemnation earlier this month when he said the military's use of sex slaves in the 1930s and 40s had been necessary to maintain discipline among Japanese troops fighting in China and on the Korean peninsula.

On Monday, the former lawyer, until recently a rising star of Japanese politics , claimed his comments about US troops on Okinawa had been misreported.

More than half of the 48,000 American troops in Japan are based on the island, where rapes and other crimes by servicemen have long been a source of resentment among residents.

"My real intention was to prevent a mere handful of US soldiers from committing crimes and strengthen the Japan-US alliance and the relations of trust between the two nations," Hashimoto told a packed press conference in Tokyo.

He said he had suggested that troops use the "legally accepted adult entertainment industry" out of a "sense of crisis" over sexual assaults by US servicemen.

"I understand that my remark could be construed as an insult to the US forces and to the American people and was inappropriate. I retract this remark and express an apology."

Hashimoto did not apologise, however, for his remarks about comfort women, the name given to as many as 200,000 mainly Korean and Chinese girls and women forced to have sex with Japanese troops.

Again, he blamed inaccurate reporting, saying that he did not personally believe military brothels were a wartime necessity, but that armies "around the world" had thought they were.

He said the US, Britain, France, Germany and Russia also needed to reflect on the sexual abuse of women during the war, but did not offer any evidence that those countries had operated "comfort stations" - brothels where girls as young as 13 were forced to have sex with as many as 20 soldiers a day - on a similar scale.

"Based on the premise that Japan must remorsefully face its past offences and must never justify the offences, I intended to argue that other nations in the world must not attempt to conclude the matter by blaming only Japan and by associating Japan alone with the simple phrase of 'sex slaves' or 'sex slavery'," Hashimoto said.

While he believes Japan should apologise to the surviving comfort women, many of whom are in their 80s and 90s, he said there was no evidence that the Japanese state had been directly involved in trafficking them. Instead, he claimed private brokers had recruited the women, some of whom were taken to the brothels in Japanese military vehicles and ships.

"I am not suggesting that Japan should evade responsibility Åc what I'm focusing on is historical fact," he said. "The most important aspect is whether it was the will of the state to be involved in a systematic manner."

Hashimoto conceded that the controversy surrounding his remarks could damage his party's prospects at upper house elections due in July. A poll in the Nikkei business paper showed support for his Restoration party at just 3%, down six percentage points from last month.
