Commentary
Time to start the legend of Troy?
Troy Tulowitzki wants to win and the Yankees need to find Derek Jeter's successor
The daydreaming about Colorado Rockies All-Star shortstop Troy Tulowitzki someday replacing Derek Jeter in the New York Yankees' lineup didn't just start when they both pulled into Minneapolis for this week's All-Star Game, and reporters revived the stories about how Tulowitzki grew up idolizing Jeter, or how he wears No. 2 in honor of him.
Tulowitzki started directly addressing the speculation way back in spring training because the Yankees are going to have two vacancies -- at shortstop, and as the face of the franchise -- when Jeter retires after this season.
[+] Enlarge	Justin Edmonds/Getty ImagesTroy Tulowitzki could follow in the footsteps of his idol, Derek Jeter.
Now, the best reason to still consider the possibility that Tulowitzki, the best all-around shortstop in the game, could end up in New York isn't just that he already fills those roles for Colorado. Or that the Yankees could absorb the seven years left on his $157.5 million contract that runs through the 2020 season, with a club option for 2021.
The reason to pay attention to the Tulowitzki talk is Tulowitzki himself doesn't dismiss it.
If anything, Tulowitzki seems willing to talk about coming to the Yanks whenever he's asked, wherever he's asked.
Doesn't matter if it's on a sleepy day at spring training, or at media day at the All-Star Game on Monday -- one of the biggest stages in the game, besides the World Series -- as he was speaking for about an hour to wave after wave of reporters. He also has broad power to veto where the Rockies might want to send him. And that's a factor in where he might land, too.
Tulowitzki could demur every time and blandly say it's unseemly for him to keep directly addressing replacing Jeter. After all, he's the undisputed face of the Rockies' franchise now that Todd Helton has retired after 17 seasons (but not a single division title) with the Rockies.
He just made the All-Star Game for the fourth time in his seven-year career, but the team is foundering again. During one miserable stretch this season, Colorado lost 28 of 38 games. The Rockies haven't made the playoffs since 2009. The only other time Tulowitzki has even been in the postseason was 2007, his sensational rookie year, when the Rockies got hot late and ran all the way to the World Series before losing to the Red Sox.
And yet, despite -- or perhaps because of -- having all that going on, the 29-year-old Tulowitzki doesn't shut down the Yankees' trade talk.
He fans the embers.
A little over a week before heading to Minneapolis, he told the Denver Post's Mark Kiszla, "In Todd Helton, there's someone who's easy to look at his career here and how it played out. I have the utmost respect for Todd, but at the same time, I don't want to be the next in line as somebody who was here for a long time and didn't have a chance to win every single year. He played in a couple postseason games and went to one World Series. But that's not me.
"I want to be somewhere where there's a chance to be in the playoffs every single year."
Tulowitzki didn't back down once at the All-Star Game, either. When asked about Jeter, whose baseball camps he used to work at, Tulowitzki said: "Everybody wants that perfect story, whoever it may be. Whether it's me or somebody else who took over for Derek, no doubt, it makes for a great story ... [The Rockies' organization] know(s) how important winning is to me. If they feel like, 'Hey, we need to get younger,' and they feel like they can get some prospects from me, then that's what it is. But I'm not demanding a trade."
It was basically the same theme Tulowitzki has been repeating since spring training.
The Yankees will have cheaper, even younger shortstop options to chase this offseason. Starlin Castro, Hanley Ramirez, Elvis Andrus, maybe Jose Reyes or Asdrubal Cabrera could all be available. But Tulowitzki is better than any of them. This season he's already hit 21 home runs and has a sensational .345/.435/.613 slash line.
The Yanks always suffer in trade talks versus free-agent chases because of their thin farm system. But don't discount the star-power vacuum the Yankees will be facing with Jeter gone just a year after Robinson Cano and Mariano Rivera left the building.
That matters to them, too. Yanks GM Brian Cashman talks often about the Yankees being "big-game hunters."
And the void Jeter leaves will of course be palpable, especially with Masahiro Tanaka and CC Sabathia facing uncertain futures, and Jacoby Ellsbury and Brian McCann so far looking like nothing more than good players whose personalities don't move the needle much.
It takes a lot to get noticed in New York. And it's hard not to notice how much Tulowitzki is courting the chance to come here. Not looking the other way.
A lot of this long drum roll reminds you of when Alex Rodriguez wanted out of Texas. And the Yankees found a way.


Best record, not groovy gift pitches at All-Star Game, should determine home-field advantage at World Series - NY Daily News
Jerry Lai/USA Today Sports NL starter Adam Wainwright is gracious in letting Derek Jeter smack leadoff double in Tuesday's All-Star Game by admittedly grooving fastball, but the gift pitch may come back to haunt Cardinals.
MINNEAPOLIS -- It took a tie game, when the managers ran out of pitchers 12 years ago, to convince Bud Selig to make the dumbest decision of his term as commissioner. So perhaps it took Adam Wainwright to convince him of the absurdity of having the All-Star Game count for World Series home-field advantage.
We can hope, anyway.
In fact, I'm rooting now for the Cardinals now to reach the World Series and then lose it in Game 6 or 7 in the American League champ's ballpark, as they did last year in Boston. Just so the Wainwright controversy isn't conveniently forgotten.
So what if the Cardinals righthander grooved a fastball for Derek Jeter, as he first admitted and then later tried to cover up when the Twitter world apparently wanted him sentenced to spend the rest of this season in exile with Alex Rodriguez -- or something like that.
Wainwright was only trying to help Jeter create the feel-good moment everyone wanted to see. Indeed, this was a reminder of why the All-Star Game should exist at all, for the opportunity to showcase greatness and offer the national stage to a player who has meant so much to his sport.
Nobody remembers the outcomes of All-Star Games, after all. They are meant for moments such as Jeter's ovation, or a similar one for Mariano Rivera last year, or the fun of seeing an electric talent such as Mike Trout fly around the bases for a triple.
At Target Field on Tuesday night, in fact, you could feel the emotion go flat in the ballpark after Jeter was removed from the game in the top of the fourth inning.
The rest of the night was the usual blur of players coming and going, the biggest stars all on the bench for the late innings because both managers feel obligated to get each and every player into the game.
You could almost hear TVs being turned off all around the country, if not when Jeter was removed then certainly when Trout, one of the few must-see players in the sport, was pulled a couple of innings later.
That too is how it should be, though, giving each of the All-Stars a chance to play. However, it's also one of the countless conflicts inherent in turning a feel-good exhibition into a game that sometimes plays a role in determining baseball's champion.
It just makes no sense. The game is supposed to matter and yet the starting teams are determined by a fan vote, and baseball still insists on including a player from every team, which means excluding better players.
Scott Rovak/USA Today Sports Derek Jeter doubles off Adam Wainwright in his final All-Star Game.
And if it means that much, how is it that baseball hasn't figured out a way to make sure the best pitchers are all available? As it is, at least a few of the best are always forced to sit it out because they started for their teams on the Sunday before the All-Star Game.
Simply put, this was always a dopey gimmick that Fox TV came up with to juice ratings after that tie game in Milwaukee in 2002, and the baseball commissioner signed off on it, essentially saying: what the heck, TV pays our bills.
Selig has always defended the decision by reminding everyone it's better than simply alternating home-field advantage, as baseball had done forever for the sake of logistical convenience. But that hardly makes it right come October.
Obviously there is a better way: have best record determine home-field advantage, as it does in every other sport.
After all, how are we supposed to take Selig's way seriously when the players themselves are just looking to get away from the grind of a 162-game schedule, have some fun and try to put on a good show.
A couple of years ago Justin Verlander had that in mind when opened the game by trying to hit 100 mph on the radar gun rather than pitch to get outs. He wound up giving up three runs but, more importantly, he understood there should be a show biz element to this game.
And now we have Wainwright trying to do the same thing, and paying for it as well. It's not as if he ever thought that by throwing a 90 mph fastball in Jeter's sweet spot, where the Yankee Captain could deliver his trademark liner to the opposite field, he'd wind up giving up three runs.
The guy is pitching to a 1.83 ERA this season, for goodness' sake. And for that matter, 90 mph is 90 mph; as Wainwright said, before later trying to backpedal, if he knew Jeter, who is almost exclusively a singles hitter at age 40, was going to lash it for a double, he would have thought better of it.
In the end, controversy and all, it actually did enhance Jeter's night.

