And so, the legend of 'Michael Jeter' was born - The Washington Post
One of these two men is an all-time great baseball player. The other is late actor Michael Jeter.
For an evening that was a little about top-flight baseball players and a lot about paying homage to a certain Yankee, Tuesday offered a couple of unexpected bumps in the road for Derek Jeter. First, the golden moment of his leadoff double was tarnished a bit when Adam Wainwright said he deliberately tossed Jeter easy pitches. Then the Twitter account for CBS News kinda sorta got one important detail wrong, referring to the shortstop as "Michael Jeter." The tweet was deleted, but, of course, not before the Internet took gleeful note.
#RE23PECT pic.twitter.com/LOKEcGhvZF
-- Eli Langer (@EliLanger) July 16, 2014
Michael Jeter was a character actor in several popular movies who passed away in 2003 at the age of 50. He won an Emmy for his work alongside Burt Reynolds in the sitcom "Evening Shade," which ran from 1990 to 1994. Jeter also starred alongside Elmo, as Mr. Noodle. He never played shortstop for the Yankees, or any other major league team.
Whoops, we meant to say DEREK Jeter takes bow at his final All-Star game http://t.co/csJROOgNWU -- CBS News (@CBSNews) July 16, 2014
That's more than okay, CBS News, because you gave people on Twitter the thing they crave the most: A very good reason to get their snark on.
Tell your children about the time you saw Michael Jeter play in the All-Star Game @CBSNews
-- Astros County (@AstrosCounty) July 16, 2014
Michael Jeter was truly the Derek Jordan of baseball.
-- Erin Gloria Ryan (@morninggloria) July 16, 2014
I personally can't wait until Michael Jeter is gone from baseball for good! pic.twitter.com/Su9woSxyVD
-- David Bolling (@davidbolling22) July 16, 2014
Well, at least some good came of the whole episode, in that the fine, prematurely ended career of Michael Jeter received some posthumous attention. Oh, and a lot of good came out of the episode for the legions of died-in-the-wool Yankee haters out there.
This former editor and part-time writer at The Post is now happy to prove that if you combine 'blowhard' and 'blaggard,' you get 'blogger.' He previously had used 'Desmond Bieler' as his byline, but feels that shortening the first name to 'Des' nicely conveys his ever-decreasing gravitas.
