Jeter, Trout shine in all-star game
Wednesday, 16 July 2014 09:49
Posted by Shoaib-ur-Rehman Siddiqui
MINNEAPOLIS: Derek Jeter went two-for-two, helping the American League grab home field advantage in the World Series with a 5-3 win over the National League in the MLB all-star game Tuesday.
Jeter belted a double on the second pitch from NL starter Adam Wainwright as the New York Yankees shortstop made his final all-star game appearance at Minneapolis' Target Field.
Jeter also scored a run for the American League which won the mid-summer classic for the second-straight year. The victory earns whatever American League team reaches the World Series home field advantage in the MLB championship.
Miguel Cabrera blasted a two-run homer in the first inning, while all-star game MVP Mike Trout doubled, tripled, drove in two runs and scored another for the winners.
Jeter is playing in the final season of his brilliant 20-year career. Even though his numbers this season didn't warrant a selection, MLB fans chose him to appear in his 14th all-star game based on his legacy and reputation as a team-first player.
He walked off the field in the top of the fourth inning Tuesday to a standing ovation as the song "New York, New York" echoed through the Target Field stadium.
Jeter now has the second highest batting average in the all-star game at .481. Former Detroit Tiger Charlie Gehringer ranks first with .500.
But Jeter's hits Tuesday didn't come without some controversy. Wainwright told reporters after his brief appearance on the mound that he didn't want to spoil Jeter's moment by overshadowing the future hall of famer.
"I was going to give him a couple of pipe shots," Wainwright said. "I didn't know he was going to hit a double, though."
Boston Red Sox manager John Farrell named Jeter, who played in his first all-star game in 1998, as his leadoff hitter for the AL.
Jeter's celebration Tuesday was similar to the way his former Yankee teammate Mariano Rivera was honoured during last year's 3-0 AL win.
Jonathan Lucroy hit a pair of RBI doubles to pace the NL, which went one-for-10 with runners in scoring position. The NL has now lost back-to-back all-star games on the heels of a three-game win streak.
This is the third time that the all-star game was held in Minneapolis and the first since the NL rolled to a 6-1 win in 1985 at the Metrodome.
Next year's classic will be at Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati, Ohio.
