Best record, not groovy gift pitches at All-Star Game, should determine home-field advantage at World Series - NY Daily News
Jerry Lai/USA Today Sports NL starter Adam Wainwright is gracious in letting Derek Jeter smack leadoff double in Tuesday's All-Star Game by admittedly grooving fastball, but the gift pitch may come back to haunt Cardinals.
MINNEAPOLIS -- It took a tie game, when the managers ran out of pitchers 12 years ago, to convince Bud Selig to make the dumbest decision of his term as commissioner. So perhaps it took Adam Wainwright to convince him of the absurdity of having the All-Star Game count for World Series home-field advantage.
We can hope, anyway.
In fact, I'm rooting now for the Cardinals now to reach the World Series and then lose it in Game 6 or 7 in the American League champ's ballpark, as they did last year in Boston. Just so the Wainwright controversy isn't conveniently forgotten.
So what if the Cardinals righthander grooved a fastball for Derek Jeter, as he first admitted and then later tried to cover up when the Twitter world apparently wanted him sentenced to spend the rest of this season in exile with Alex Rodriguez -- or something like that.
Wainwright was only trying to help Jeter create the feel-good moment everyone wanted to see. Indeed, this was a reminder of why the All-Star Game should exist at all, for the opportunity to showcase greatness and offer the national stage to a player who has meant so much to his sport.
Nobody remembers the outcomes of All-Star Games, after all. They are meant for moments such as Jeter's ovation, or a similar one for Mariano Rivera last year, or the fun of seeing an electric talent such as Mike Trout fly around the bases for a triple.
At Target Field on Tuesday night, in fact, you could feel the emotion go flat in the ballpark after Jeter was removed from the game in the top of the fourth inning.
The rest of the night was the usual blur of players coming and going, the biggest stars all on the bench for the late innings because both managers feel obligated to get each and every player into the game.
You could almost hear TVs being turned off all around the country, if not when Jeter was removed then certainly when Trout, one of the few must-see players in the sport, was pulled a couple of innings later.
That too is how it should be, though, giving each of the All-Stars a chance to play. However, it's also one of the countless conflicts inherent in turning a feel-good exhibition into a game that sometimes plays a role in determining baseball's champion.
It just makes no sense. The game is supposed to matter and yet the starting teams are determined by a fan vote, and baseball still insists on including a player from every team, which means excluding better players.
Scott Rovak/USA Today Sports Derek Jeter doubles off Adam Wainwright in his final All-Star Game.
And if it means that much, how is it that baseball hasn't figured out a way to make sure the best pitchers are all available? As it is, at least a few of the best are always forced to sit it out because they started for their teams on the Sunday before the All-Star Game.
Simply put, this was always a dopey gimmick that Fox TV came up with to juice ratings after that tie game in Milwaukee in 2002, and the baseball commissioner signed off on it, essentially saying: what the heck, TV pays our bills.
Selig has always defended the decision by reminding everyone it's better than simply alternating home-field advantage, as baseball had done forever for the sake of logistical convenience. But that hardly makes it right come October.
Obviously there is a better way: have best record determine home-field advantage, as it does in every other sport.
After all, how are we supposed to take Selig's way seriously when the players themselves are just looking to get away from the grind of a 162-game schedule, have some fun and try to put on a good show.
A couple of years ago Justin Verlander had that in mind when opened the game by trying to hit 100 mph on the radar gun rather than pitch to get outs. He wound up giving up three runs but, more importantly, he understood there should be a show biz element to this game.
And now we have Wainwright trying to do the same thing, and paying for it as well. It's not as if he ever thought that by throwing a 90 mph fastball in Jeter's sweet spot, where the Yankee Captain could deliver his trademark liner to the opposite field, he'd wind up giving up three runs.
The guy is pitching to a 1.83 ERA this season, for goodness' sake. And for that matter, 90 mph is 90 mph; as Wainwright said, before later trying to backpedal, if he knew Jeter, who is almost exclusively a singles hitter at age 40, was going to lash it for a double, he would have thought better of it.
In the end, controversy and all, it actually did enhance Jeter's night.

