Posted on June 19, 2014 10:56:14 PM
GoT finale draws 7.1M viewers
LOS ANGELES -- The blood-filled finale of the fourth season of HBO's fantasy series Game of Thrones was watched by 7.1 million viewers, the network said, topping the 5.4 million people who watched last season's closing episode.
The Sunday episode of
Game of Thrones	, titled "The Children," concluded with many of the show's leading characters making pivotal decisions that will set their path for next season while a crucial few met their demise.
HBO said a gross audience of 9.3 million viewers watched the episode across live and replayed airings. The Time Warner, Inc.-owned premium cable network has not yet released the total viewership, which includes video on demand and mobile streaming.
The show has surpassed
The Sopranos	 to become HBO's most popular series ever, and 6.6 million viewers tuned into the season four premiere. The average gross audience watching the show across all platforms, including delayed viewing, has been 18.6 million per episode this season.
Game of Thrones	 is a medieval fantasy epic based on the best-selling books by writer George R.R. Martin about fictional families fighting for control of a mythical land, Westeros.
The show, which first aired in 2011, stars Peter Dinklage, Lena Headey, Emilia Clarke and Maisie Williams, and is sold to more than 200 markets outside the United States. --
Reuters

Game Of Thrones Season Four: Ten most shocking moments - Independent.ie
Anita McSorley
Published 16/06/2014|23:19
Game of Thrones featured a rape scene between incestuous lovers Cersei and Jaime Lannister
There has been no shortage of shocking moments in the fourth season of Game of Thrones, with the season finale ending in not one, not two but FOUR deaths.
We take a look at the 10 most shocking moments from this season.
1.	The Purple Wedding
Those in Westeros should consider declining any future wedding invites. After the massacre that was season threes Red Wedding, the fantasy show did it again with the nuptials of King Joffery and Margaery Tyrell.
Unlike the Red Wedding where Robb Stark, his mother Catelynn Stark, his pregnant wife Talisa, his dire wolf, and other Stark followers were slaughtered in an all-out ambush, there was but one victim at this reception and no blades were drawn.
During the wedding, Joffery is poisoned. He begins to choke and can't breathe. Everyone rushes to try and help him but the situation quickly becomes hopeless.
Joffery's face turns purple and his eyes become clouded with blood. The boy king died on his weeping mother's lap, glassy eyes fixed on the distance and blood streaming from his nostrils.
2.	Jaime the rapist
If the scenes between Jaime and Brienne of Tarth forming a true, deep friendship hadn't at least softened your opinion of Jaime as a moral man, you'd be lying to yourself. However in episode two, Jaime shocks us all by raping his sister on Joffery's tomb.
After his return to King's Landing, Cersei rejects him and he responds by holding her in an embrace that turns to affectionate kissing. Cersei then tries to stop his advances by pleading and begging with him. He won't let up and continues to push her to the floor and have his way.
3.	Khaleesi's mass crucifixion
Khaleesi orders 163 Masters to be crucified in memory of the child slaves she saw murdered in the same way. Despite Ser Barristan suggesting that greater strength comes through mercy, she sees it as an eye for an eye. In crucifying the Masters, Daenerys made her peace with the horrific scenes in season three on the road to Meereen, but she also made herself a murderer.
4.	The baby sacrifice
At the end of episode four, Caster carries one of his babies into the woods at night and leaves it on the ground alone. We then watch as a white walker, the same one we saw at the end of season two, picks up the abandoned baby, touches its cheek and the baby's eyes turn ice-blue.
5.	Tyrions trial
The trial of Tyrion Lannister was a carefully constructed charade with an already determined outcome. Each piece of testimony was twisted to make Tyrion be convicted regardless of his actual guilt. During a break in the proceedings, Jaime goes to his father pleading for his brother's life and strikes a deal that will allow Tyrion to plead for mercy and grant it to allow him to join the Night's Watch.
Jaime informs Tyrion of the plan, but the treacherous testimony of Shae pushes Tyrion over the edge and seething with anger he 'confesses' to 'the crime of being a dwarf'. He then goes on to give a truly amazing speech that won Peter Dinklage another Emmy. It was a shock ending to the episode.
6.	Lysa and the moon door
After witnessing Littlefinger kiss Sansa, his new wife Lysa Tully, threatens to push Sansa from the moon door. She's stopped by Little finger who promises to send Sansa away. He gets up close and promises Lysa that there's only one person he's ever loved. Her sister, Catelyn.
With that emotional dagger to the heart, Littlefinger then pushes Lysa into the moon door and she falls to her death.
7.	That head-exploding fight scene
There was no moment more horrific or shocking than the end of the trial by combat between The Mountain and Oberyn Martell.
Surprisingly, Oberyn gets the better of The Mountain, and almost kills him. Before finishing him off, whoever, he asks the mountain to confess to murdering his sister. The Mountain takes Oberyn by the throat, admitting everything, and then shows the late Martell exactly what he did to his sister. Punching her teeth out with one hit, gouging her eyeballs and then making her head explode with his bare hands.
8.	Three-year-old burned to death by dragons
It started with a goat, but this time a peasant brings the charred bones of his 3-year-old daughter who was burnt alive by one of her dragons, to Khaleesi.
In the season finale watch as Daenerys, the breaker of chains, lures her two smaller dragons into a cave and fastens metal collars to their necks.
9.	The Hound meets his match
The Hound finally meets his match with Brienne of Tarth. The two engage in a brutal duel after she demands he hand over Arya stark. The Hound has the beating of Brienne, but in the end she pushes him over the cliff and leaves him for dead.
10.	Tyrion Lannisters day of reckoning
After being freed from his cell by his brother Jaime, Tyrion did not flee the castle. Instead, he headed to his fathers room, where he found Shae waiting on the bed. They fought for a while before Tyrion eventually ended up strangling her. He then grabbed a crossbow off the wall and searched for his Father. He finds his father on the toilet and Tyrion wastes no time, shooting him twice with a crossbow.
