Posted on June 19, 2014 10:56:14 PM
GoT finale draws 7.1M viewers
LOS ANGELES -- The blood-filled finale of the fourth season of HBO's fantasy series Game of Thrones was watched by 7.1 million viewers, the network said, topping the 5.4 million people who watched last season's closing episode.
The Sunday episode of
Game of Thrones	, titled "The Children," concluded with many of the show's leading characters making pivotal decisions that will set their path for next season while a crucial few met their demise.
HBO said a gross audience of 9.3 million viewers watched the episode across live and replayed airings. The Time Warner, Inc.-owned premium cable network has not yet released the total viewership, which includes video on demand and mobile streaming.
The show has surpassed
The Sopranos	 to become HBO's most popular series ever, and 6.6 million viewers tuned into the season four premiere. The average gross audience watching the show across all platforms, including delayed viewing, has been 18.6 million per episode this season.
Game of Thrones	 is a medieval fantasy epic based on the best-selling books by writer George R.R. Martin about fictional families fighting for control of a mythical land, Westeros.
The show, which first aired in 2011, stars Peter Dinklage, Lena Headey, Emilia Clarke and Maisie Williams, and is sold to more than 200 markets outside the United States. --
Reuters

Game of Thrones: Download for season 4 made available in UK by HBO - News - TV & Radio - The Independent
Fans of the popular series will be able to download and watch season four from Amazon Instant Video, blinkbox, Google Play, Wuaki.tv and Xbox Video from Tuesday 17 June.
The series, which has broken records to become the most-pirated TV show in the world, will be available to download legally as individual episodes or the entire series, giving fans a chance to watch the show again before it is released as a boxset.
Game of Thrones was named the most pirated TV show of 2013, with an estimated 5.9 million episodes downloaded via BitTorrent.
The second episode of the latest series broke another record to become the most-shared TV episode at one time, with over 190,000 people found to be simultaneously sharing it online.
In the UK, series four aired the day after its initial broadcast on HBO in the US, leading to a police crackdown on piracy and illegal download websites.
Based on the book series by George RR Martin, Game of Thrones season four has become HBO's most successful series to date, beating The Sopranos to become the channel's most-watched drama.
The average Game of Thrones audience increased from 18 million to 18.4 million earlier this month to overtake The Sopranos' 18.2 million ratings record.
