Posted on June 19, 2014 10:56:14 PM
GoT finale draws 7.1M viewers
LOS ANGELES -- The blood-filled finale of the fourth season of HBO's fantasy series Game of Thrones was watched by 7.1 million viewers, the network said, topping the 5.4 million people who watched last season's closing episode.
The Sunday episode of
Game of Thrones	, titled "The Children," concluded with many of the show's leading characters making pivotal decisions that will set their path for next season while a crucial few met their demise.
HBO said a gross audience of 9.3 million viewers watched the episode across live and replayed airings. The Time Warner, Inc.-owned premium cable network has not yet released the total viewership, which includes video on demand and mobile streaming.
The show has surpassed
The Sopranos	 to become HBO's most popular series ever, and 6.6 million viewers tuned into the season four premiere. The average gross audience watching the show across all platforms, including delayed viewing, has been 18.6 million per episode this season.
Game of Thrones	 is a medieval fantasy epic based on the best-selling books by writer George R.R. Martin about fictional families fighting for control of a mythical land, Westeros.
The show, which first aired in 2011, stars Peter Dinklage, Lena Headey, Emilia Clarke and Maisie Williams, and is sold to more than 200 markets outside the United States. --
Reuters

Game of Thrones s4e10 review: Fitting end to the most tumultuous season yet - Reviews - TV & Radio - The Independent
As season conclusions go, "The Children" was more dramatic than previous years. Tyrion escaped King's Landing but not before slaying his father and his former lover. Never before has an act of patricide been more justified. After orchestrating last year's Red Wedding, dying while on the toilet was an apt death for such a vile man.
Then there was Bran, who finally reached the three-eyed crow but lost Jojen Reed to a White Walker with a penchant for stabbing. The battle between the rag-tag gang and the undead was an impressive sequence that kept viewers on tenterhooks. Bran's storyline requires a lot of patience but the waiting finally paid off.
Those expecting a last-minute Red Wedding would have been left disappointed. Yes, the makers have upped the ante but "The Children" was still a more understated and contemplative affair that is characteristic of episode 10.
It was more emotionally involving than last week's action-driven instalment. Daenerys made the difficult decision of locking up her dragons. Her last glance over one shoulder before shutting the catacombs was heart-breaking. But the tears were not just reserved for the dragons; watching Jon Snow cremating Ygritte was equally as sad. It was a fitting send off for such a feisty and well-loved character.
Meanwhile, fans witnessed the dissolution of the Game of Thrones comedy duo that was Arya and the Hound. They have been entertaining fans week-in week-out with their sweary exchanges but all good things must come to end. Perhaps Brienne and Pod can take up the mantle?
Speaking of which - Brienne and Arya's encounter was wonderful. Yes, it never happened in the novels, but it was a delicious digression and compelling. These characters are only miles apart, so their meeting is entirely possible and the makers have taken advantage of this to great effect.
"The Children" served its purpose by whetting the audience's appetite for season five. It only has a slight edge over other Game of Thrones finales - season one's "Fire and Blood" was arguably as powerful and dramatic.
Overall, season four has best of the best of them, even if "The Children" failed to deliver. The season has also deviated more from the novels compared to previous years, but in most cases these changes have benefited the show and condensed the substantial source text admirably well.
The only question is, how season five can possibly top this year?
