Television
Emmy Nominations Cross a Few Lines
By BILL CARTERJULY 10, 2014
Continue reading the main story Share This Page
IT'S not just network and cable television. It's everything that's good on video, as far as the Emmys are concerned.
That point was driven home emphatically on Thursday as the nominations for this year's Emmy Awards were announced. The showdown for outstanding drama series spread across cable and pay television services with the list of nominees including some of the most highly praised shows in recent memory. AMC's "Breaking Bad," in its last season, and HBO's "True Detective," in its first, are expected to be strong contenders. They were joined by "Game of Thrones" on HBO, which topped the list with 19 nominations, and "House of Cards" on Netflix, with 13.
"Downton Abbey" and "Mad Men" were the other dramas nominated.
Netflix, the subscription streaming service, was far more a presence than it was last year, racking up 31 nominations, including major nominations in the top series categories for "House of Cards" and "Orange Is the New Black." That was more nominations than some long established networks, including Fox, which had only 18. (That was the Emmy-listed number; Fox pointed out that one of its shows, "Cosmos," received 12 nominations, but they were separated out as Fox/NatGEO, because the series ran on two networks.) On cable, A&E had exactly one nomination.
The strong showing for Netflix was driven by 13 nominations for "House of Cards" and 12 for the newcomer "Orange Is the New Black." Both had multiple entries in the acting categories. Other big winners included two FX mini-series, "Fargo," which racked up the second highest number of nominations (after "Game of Thrones"), with 18, and "American Horror Story," with 17. "Breaking Bad" had 16, as did the HBO movie "The Normal Heart." "True Detective" had 12.
"Saturday Night Live" also scored well, with 14 nominations. It continued to hang in with the late-night talk shows, earning a nomination for outstanding variety series. Also earning nominations in that category were the shows hosted by Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel and Stephen Colbert, who by next year will be network competitors, as well as "The Daily Show With Jon Stewart" and "Real Time With Bill Maher."
The Emmys, scheduled to take place Aug. 25 at the Nokia Theater in Los Angeles, will be telecast on NBC. Seth Meyers, whose late-night talk show is on NBC, will host the ceremony.
In general, broadcasters continued to struggle against the onslaught of strong entries from across the spectrum, with even CBS's "The Good Wife," after a widely praised season, shut out of the best drama- series category. The only broadcaster with a nominee in that super-competitive group was PBS, with "Downton Abbey."
In the comedy-series category, the broadcast networks fared slightly better, with ABC's "Modern Family," which has won an Emmy in each of the last four years, and CBS's "The Big Bang Theory" earning nominations, along with "Veep," "Louie," "Orange Is the New Black" and "Silicon Valley."
CBS led the broadcasters with 47 nominations (dwarfed by the perennial leader HBO with 99), followed by NBC with 46 and ABC with 37. PBS had 34.
In the acting categories, drama was again the stronghold of non-network shows, although Julianna Margulies of "The Good Wife," Kerry Washington of ABC's "Scandal," and Michelle Dockery of "Downton Abbey" did break into the best actress list. Also in the group were the newcomer Lizzy Caplan, widely praised for her performance in Showtime's "Masters of Sex"; Robin Wright of "House of Cards"; and the incumbent winner, Claire Danes from "Homeland," also on Showtime.
Notable omissions included Elisabeth Moss of "Mad Men," Tatiana Maslany for "Orphan Black," Keri Russell for FX's "The Americans" and Vera Farmiga for A&E's "Bates Motel."
On the men's side, it was all nonbroadcast contenders: Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson for "True Detective"; Bryan Cranston for "Breaking Bad"; last year's winner, Jeff Daniels for HBO's "The Newsroom"; Kevin Spacey for "House of Cards"; and one more nomination for Jon Hamm of "Mad Men," who surprisingly has never won this award.
Omissions included Michael Sheen of "Masters of Sex," James Spader of "Blacklist" and Matthew Rhys of "The Americans."
Netflix scored a bit of a surprise nomination for Ricky Gervais in the lead actor category for his comedy "Derek." He was joined in that group by regulars like Jim Parsons of "Big Bang," Louis C.K. of "Louie," Don Cheadle in Showtime's "House of Lies" and Matt LeBlanc in Showtime's "Episodes." A newcomer was William H. Macy of Showtime's "Shameless," which that cable network elbowed into the comedy categories in an attempt to win some nominations.
The category for best actress in a comedy included mostly repeat performers: Amy Poehler of "Parks and Recreation," Melissa McCarthy of "Mike and Molly," Edie Falco of "Nurse Jackie," Julia Louis-Dreyfus of "Veep" and Lena Dunham of "Girls." Again, "Orange" broke into the party, with its star Taylor Schilling.
The strategizing that went into the gaming of categories was evident and in some cases paid off. For instance, "Fargo" and "True Detective" have the exact same format (close-ended series with plans for additional seasons with different casts) but both claimed a host of nominations in separate categories -- mini-series versus drama series -- when they could have canceled each other out, had they gone head to head.
Ms. Falco has been criticized for being listed in the comedy actress group because her performance is so dramatically compelling, but she is at least in a half-hour show, the format of most comedy nominees. "Orange" became the most nominated comedy, even though it's an hour long and includes a good deal of drama.
Fred Armisen, who created and clearly stars in "Portlandia" on IFC, was nominated as a supporting actor.
Then there is the category of outstanding guest actor in a comedy series, which now includes actors who are actually series regulars. Robert Morse in "Mad Men," and Beau Bridges and Allison Janney of "Masters of Sex" all won nominations as "guest" actors.
A version of this article appears in print on July 11, 2014, on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Emmy Nominations Cross a Few Lines. 

Game Of Thrones has been handed a raft of Emmy nominations in the US
10 July 2014
The fantasy saga Game Of Thrones has emerged as the show with the most Emmy nominations with 19 nods, including best drama series.
The drugs drama Breaking Bad was next in line with 16 nominations for its final season, including best drama and a best actor nod for star Bryan Cranston.
Other top nominees included a pair of ambitious miniseries, Fargo garnered 18 nominations and American Horror Story: Coven has 17.
The Aids drama The Normal Heart received 16 nominations, including best TV movie.
The 66th prime-time Emmy Awards ceremony will have big-screen star power to spare.
This year's Academy Awards best-actor winner Matthew McConaughey and nominee Chiwetel Ejiofor are both nominees for TV projects, as is past Oscar winner Julia Roberts.
In the competitive best-drama series category, Game Of Thrones will compete with Breaking Bad, Downton Abbey, House Of Cards, Mad Men and True Detective.
Netflix's House Of Cards, which made a breakthrough last year as the first online series nominated for a major award, has the chance again to grab Emmy gold.
True Detective, a dark drama that starred McConaughey and Woody Harrelson, was entered in the series category although it had a close-ended story and its stars have indicated they do not plan on returning.
Orange Is The New Black, also from Netflix, earned a nomination for best comedy series and a nod for star Taylor Schilling.
Also competing for best comedy honours are "The Big Bang Theory, Louie, Silicon Valley, Veep and Modern Family.
Modern Family is a four-time winner that has the chance to tie with Frasier as the all-time top sitcom with one more award.
Orange Is The New Black, a hybrid 'dramedy' set in a prison, could have been entered in either the drama or comedy category, and the decision to go for the latter paid off.
Not so for Shameless, a one-time drama contender that tried for better luck on the comedy side but failed to get a nod.
True Detective qualifies as a series because of the "created by" credit given to Nic Pizzolatto by the Writers Guild of America, said John Leverence, the TV academy's senior vice president for awards.
McConaughey and Harrelson both will vie for best drama actor honours, along with four-time winner Cranston, Jon Hamm of Mad Men, Kevin Spacey for House Of Cards, and Jeff Daniels for The Newsroom. Daniels won the Emmy last year.
Nominees in the lead actress drama category are last year's winner, Homeland star Claire Danes along with Lizzy Caplan for Masters Of Sex, Michelle Dockery for Downton Abbey, Julianna Margulies for The Good Wife, Kerry Washington for Scandal and Robin Wright for House Of Cards.
With a resurgence of long-form drama, the TV academy separated the best movie and mini-series categories that it had combined for several years because of scant entries.
In the miniseries category, American Horror Story: Coven and Fargo, a riff on the 1996 movie of the same name, will compete with Bonnie & Clyde, Luther, Treme and The White Queen.
Along with The Normal Heart, the TV movie nominees are Killing Kennedy, Muhammad Ali's Greatest Fight, Sherlock: His Last Vow (Masterpiece) and The Trip To Bountiful.
For comedy series, the lead actor nods went to Don Cheadle for House Of Lies, Louis CK for Louie, Ricky Gervais for Derek, Matt LeBlanc for Episodes, William H Macy for Shameless and Jim Parsons for The Big Bang Theory. Parsons won the Emmy last year.
Matt LeBlanc said getting the early-morning call with news of his nomination had made him woried.
He said: "If the phone rings, I completely forget what's going on. I think someone is in trouble, someone is in jail, I'm in trouble, what could possibly be wrong?
"I immediately go to that place, and it's my publicist saying congratulations."
Parsons, who has two nominations overall, said he might celebrate by going out for dinner - or playing computer games in bed.
He said: "If I celebrate today, it would be probably simply going out to dinner, which I know probably doesn't sound that thrilling to most people, but for me it really is a lovely day. I love going out to dinner.
"There is also the chance that the celebration takes place by lying in bed playing Candy Crush and reading, which also makes me very happy."
Joanne Froggatt is nominated in the supporting actress category for Downton Abbey. She said: "I'd just been to the gym and was sort of avoiding my phone until I got home, and then my husband swung the door open and said, 'You did it! You did it!'"
COMMENT RULES: Comments that are judged to be defamatory, abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted. The moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator's decision is final. It is Belfast Telegraph policy to close comments on court cases, tribunals and active legal investigations. We may also close comments on articles which are being targeted for abuse. Problems with commenting? 
