The best Emmy Instagrams
SARAH OAKES
SUPPLIED
The Orange is the New Black cast in season one.
It's Emmy nominations time and in LA overnight our girl Mindy Kaling and that other dude that's perennially on the red carpet for shows that never screen here, Carson Daly, announced the contenders. Of course everyone will now spend the day discussing who was 'snubbed' (The Good Wife!) and who lazily got a nod after a weak season (Downton Abbey!)
But if we focus on the positive for just a moment there was also some really worthy and exciting nominations (Orange is the New Black!) and there's truly nothing greater than getting to witness a little bit of the magic when they hear the career-bolstering news.
Here's the best reactions Instagram has provided us with so far:
Uzo Aduba (Crazy Eyes, Orange is the New Black): Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series
"Humbled. Grateful." Aduba said.
The cast of Orange is the New Black got 12 nominations - naturally they celebrated with orange juice and selfies:
Taystee (Danielle Brooks) also had something to add:
Modern Family's Jesse Tyler Ferguson celebrated the super worthy nomination of his friend Lizzy Caplan (Masters of Sex, Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series) with this cute #TBT:
He captioned the photo: "So happy for my good friend #LizzyCaplan who was nominated for her first Emmy Award this morning for her brilliant performance on "Masters of Sex". Here is a #tbt of us as babies!"
Another nominee in the Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series is, of course, Lena Dunham who also marked the occasion with a #TBT, albeit a more recent one:
"In honor of the very lucky Emmy nominations, a favorite image of Adam & Hannah" she wrote.
On Twitter she added this about Adam Driver's nomination for Lead Actor in Girls.
We are very proud of Adam. He's a gift to our show and our lives! And he's too classy 4 twitter.
-- Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) July 10, 2014
Scandal actress Kerry Washington had a great morning:
While he doesn't explicitly say it, we're going to assume Peter Dinklage posting this pic of his cast mate Lena Headey this morning was a tribute to her first Emmy nomination (Game of Thrones, Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series).
Over on Twitter Ricky Gervais hit the champers early to celebrate the surprise nomination in the Lead Actor category for his show Derek.
I have never been more exited & proud of a nomination. I honestly nearly cried. A sincere thank you. #emmys #derek pic.twitter.com/D2kK0vakfT

