Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

Family a key in where Carmelo Anthony decides to play - chicagotribune.com
When Carmelo Anthony was 8 years old, he moved from Brooklyn to Baltimore and struggled fitting in enough that the memories still affect him as a grown man.
Kiyan Carmelo Anthony, Carmelo's son, turned 7 in March.
Those seemingly insignificant bits of Anthony trivia didn't seem so insignificant Monday after watching a 3-minute, 49-second video of the potential Bull weighing his future on the VICE sports website. Relaxed in sweats and a denim shirt, Anthony provided a glimpse into his personality that humanized an NBA superstar not exactly known for his maturity.
The video clip also likely discouraged Bulls fans searching for positive signs on the day Anthony officially opted out of his Knicks contract to become a free agent.
"The average person just sees the opportunity to say, 'Melo should go here, Melo should go there,' " Anthony said. "But they don't take into consideration the family aspect of it, your livelihood, where you're going to be living. Do you want your kids to grow up in that place? Do I want to spend the rest of my career in that situation, in that city?"
Anthony taped the interview June 3 in the Brooklyn office of VICE, a new website "dedicated to the game beyond the game," that was launched June 10. Publisher Will Kiersky participated in the conversation that carried no restrictions and revealed how badly Anthony seeks to balance his professional and personal lives.
"My son goes to school and loves it here (in New York), (so) to take him out and take him somewhere else, he would have to learn that system all over again," said Anthony, 30. "I know how hard it was for me when I moved from New York to Baltimore at a young age, having to work your way to try to make new friends and fit in and figure out the culture in that area."
Anthony's voice was sincere, his tone sobering. He hardly sounded like someone eager to leave a comfortable environment and the $29 million more the Knicks can offer even if it improved his chances to win an NBA title. He sounded like a guy more concerned about a legacy that had nothing to do with basketball.
But Kiersky, in the room as Anthony spoke of "the big picture," came away convinced of nothing more than Anthony's commitment to do what's best for his family. We'll see.
"The interview made him more human, but I didn't get the inclination he was leaning one way or another," Kiersky said in a phone interview.
It all depends on the source, and so many exist in this Melo-drama that surely we will hear from Kim Kardashian any day now. If only I were kidding. Kardashian counts among her BFFs La La Anthony, Carmelo's actress wife, and Larsa Pippen, Scottie's wife -- which means this story is destined to break either on Instagram or in People.
Not only were the Anthonys and Pippens on the guest list for the Kardashian-Kanye West wedding but were vacationing together last weekend in France. Carmelo and Scottie appeared together in Paris at a World Streetball Championship sponsored by Nike and, naturally, photos show Anthony decked out head-to-toe in the Air Jordan gear he endorses.
Nobody knows how hard Pippen, a Bulls ambassador, has pushed the idea of Anthony chasing a championship alongside Derrick Rose and Joakim Noah. Nobody knows whether Anthony's affinity for Michael Jordan, who gave Kiyan Anthony an exclusive pair of shoes for his seventh birthday, affects his desire to hang a banner in the House MJ Built.
Nobody knows anything, really, except Chicago wants Anthony badly enough to replace the controversial Donald Trump sign on his building with M-E-L-O without hearing a complaint in the city.
How badly does Rose want Anthony? Rumors fly, with the latest report claiming Rose prefers trading for Timberwolves forward Kevin Love over signing Anthony. Believe none of it until Rose speaks, because no elite point guard could lack that much awareness. Anthony not only would bring the Bulls immediately closer to a title but, theoretically, they might not have to part with Taj Gibson as they would in a Love trade.
Before Thursday's NBA draft, the Bulls might have to decide whether to pull the trigger on a trade for Love or stand pat and go all in on Anthony. What a delightful dilemma that would be for John Paxson and Gar Forman; certainly more tantalizing than whether to package the 16th and 19th picks to move up to draft an unproven rookie shooter.
Getting Anthony and Love is unrealistic. Landing either star would define the Bulls' summer. Striking out on both would sting worse than losing in five to the Wizards but, worse, convince nobody the Bulls can get beyond the first round again next season.
DHaugh@Tribune.com
Twitter@DavidHaugh
