Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

Jackson: Optimistic Melo will sign
Updated: July 10, 2014, 8:09 PM ET
By Ian Begley and Fred Katz | ESPN.com
New York Knicks president Phil Jackson said Thursday that he hasn't heard from free agent Carmelo Anthony in recent days but remained confident that the All-Star forward would re-sign with the Knicks.
Jackson's optimism stems in part from the rapport he's established with Anthony through the Knicks' meetings with the free agent forward.
"I felt really good about my conversation with Melo," Jackson said. "We really struck a chord. The two of us, I think, feel really passionately about what we're trying to get accomplished. It's his ability to stay, be patient, lead and watch us develop a winner. There's no instantaneous winner that we think is going to happen to the Knicks right now, but we're going to be a lot better."
Jackson said the Knicks have made five different contract offers to Anthony, one of which is believed to be a maximum deal of $129 million over five years.
[+] Enlarge	AP Photo/Seth WenigPhil Jackson says Carmelo Anthony hasn't returned his texts in recent days, but he remains confident Anthony will re-sign with the Knicks.
Anthony's agent, Leon Rose, told ESPN.com on Wednesday afternoon that his client "hasn't made a decision yet."
"No decision yet," another source said. "Still up in air."
Anthony visited the Chicago Bulls, Dallas Mavericks, Houston Rockets and Los Angeles Lakers last week in addition to meeting with Jackson and the Knicks in Los Angeles.
The Lakers are prepared to offer Anthony a four-year, $97 million contract, the most allowed under the collective bargaining agreement. For the Bulls to make an offer approaching a maximum contract, they'd have to orchestrate a sign-and-trade for Anthony.
Jackson said he has texted Anthony several times in recent days and hasn't heard back from the seven-time All Star.
"We have alternative plans -- Plans B, C, D, E and F -- but so far, we're still in Plan A, and that's the first kingpin we have to have in this whole situation," Jackson said of Anthony, who was second in the NBA in scoring last season (27.4 points per game) and pulled down 8.1 rebounds per game.
Jackson added that Anthony and his advisers are "amenable to what [the Knicks] are trying to accomplish."
The first-year president was asked if he expected a "positive outcome" for the Knicks if Anthony decides to sign elsewhere.
"Yes," he said. "It means we go forward with some of the other plans that we have, secondary plans, to try to sustain this team. Whether we turn to more veteran support or we go a different direction, [there will be] opportunities."
Jackson said he has also spoken with free-agent forward Pau Gasol about joining the Knicks.
"I think he would like to play with Carmelo, and I think he would like to play with a winner," Jackson said of Gasol, whom he coached in Los Angeles during two NBA title runs.
Gasol is also being courted by the Bulls, Thunder and Lakers, among others. He would need to take a significant pay cut to sign with the Knicks. Gasol made $19 million last season, but the Knicks have only the $3.3 million exception to offer free agents at the moment.
Jackson has talked recently with teams about the possibility of trading Amar'e Stoudemire to unload his $23.4 million salary, sources say. That move would free up cap space and increase the money the Knicks can offer free agents. Jackson hasn't yet found a team willing to absorb Stoudemire's salary.
With the Lakers in play for both Gasol and Anthony, Jackson was asked if it was awkward to compete against his fiancee, Lakers president Jeanie Buss, for free agents.
"No, no. We talked about this before," Jackson said. "We're going to be in a place where there are going to be players who both of us want and we just have to deal with it. We'll put our best pitch forward and we just accept that as part of the game. It is what it is. I think these owners, and the position that I'm in, you have to understand that it's just part of the game."
