Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

Wavering Carmelo Anthony thinking longer about Knicks' max offer
BY JOE COWLEY Staff Reporter 						 							July 10, 2014 9:43PM
NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 21: Carmelo Anthony #7 of the New York Knicks is blocked by Joakim Noah #13 of the Chicago Bulls at Madison Square Garden on December 21, 2012 in New York City. NOTE TO USER: User expressly acknowledges and agrees that, by downloading and/or using this photograph, user is consenting to the terms and conditions of the Getty Images License Agreement. (Photo by Bruce Bennett/Getty Images)
storyidforme: 68990151
tmspicid: 15554326
fileheaderid: 7024578
Article Extras
Updated: July 10, 2014 11:59PM
According to a Bulls source on Thursday evening, using the term "reconsidering'' when it comes to Carmelo Anthony and his stance on spurning the Bulls "might be a bit strong.''
Several rumors surfaced that Anthony was "reconsidering'' the max-contract offer of five years, $129 million to re-sign with Phil Jackson and the New York Knicks, and was starting to lean back toward the Bulls.
It's a small lean, if any.
A member of Anthony's camp has let the Bulls know that the decision is weighing heavily on the seven-time All-Star, especially because of the connection he felt he made with All-Star center Joakim Noah and coach Tom Thibodeau in their meeting on July 1.
"We definitely still haven't been told no,'' the source said.
The problem is the Bulls desperately need a sign-and-trade with the Knicks to make up the $54 million Anthony would be leaving on the table if he signed as a free agent. The Knicks, however, have been adamant in letting the Bulls know that they aren't interested in a sign-and-trade.
The Bulls continue to spin their wheels as far as jumping into Plan B if they lose out in the Anthony sweepstakes.
Pau Gasol headlines that Plan B, but the team would also love to start hammering out more details to hasten the addition of Nikola Mirotic to the roster.
There were reports that Mirotic, the 2011 draft pick acquired by the Bulls, was in Chicago, but he has been in Los Angeles, awaiting the negotiation process to start. Both sides would like to get something done as quickly as possible, because the feeling is Mirotic is a bigger work in progress than earlier believed.
Don't tell that to ESPN analyst Fran Fraschilla, however. Appearing on WMVP-AM, he said that Mirotic would have been the fourth overall pick in the 2014 draft.
"I think the Bulls are getting a really solid player," Fraschilla said. "But they're not getting Dirk Nowitzki, certainly not at this stage of his career.
"Playing at the level he has for the last four years, he's hitting .330 in Triple-A. And now you're bringing him up to the big leagues. If you're the Chicago Bulls, for example, you're hoping he's going to be a .290 hitter right off the bat.''
One scout said that Mirotic would be behind rookie Doug McDermott and second-year player Tony Snell at the start of training camp from a skill-level standpoint.
No wilt on Rose
If the Bulls were searching for some sort of good news to come out of the last week, it's been Derrick Rose's play during the practices at the Berto Center with the Summer League team.
According to several who have witnessed Rose's dominance up-close-and-personal, he's "looked great.'' And not just the "great'' that Thibodeau likes to throw around whenever discussing Rose and his rehab.
His outside shot has shown continued improvement and his ability to attack the rim is as good as the Bulls have seen since he first injured his left knee in 2012. And while it's only coming against rookies and younger players set to begin Summer League this weekend in Las Vegas, according to one source, Rose and Thibodeau are feeling confident about the push he will make in late July when tryouts for USA Basketball start in Las Vegas.
Rose has been playing full-contact basketball since late April. According to a source, he has had no setbacks in his recovery from the right-knee injury he suffered 10 games into the regular season.
Email: jcowley@suntimes.com
Twitter: @suntimes_hoops
