Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

Should NYK execute a Melo sign-and-trade? - Knicks Blog - ESPN New York
Carmelo Anthony	's decision to test free agency leaves the Knicks with a long list of issues to sort out.
At the top of that list? Figuring out the best way to try to persuade Anthony to re-sign with the team.
A close second, however, is figuring out whether it's prudent to execute a sign-and-trade if Anthony is going to leave town.
Below, we take a brief look at the pros and cons of a sign-and-trade involving Anthony.
Why the Knicks should do a sign and trade:	 Obviously, the Knicks would want to get something in return for Anthony if they can't re-sign him.
But in agreeing to participate in a sign-and-trade, the Knicks would make it easier for Anthony to leave New York.
Chicago and Houston -- two of Anthony's top suitors -- lack the cap space to sign Anthony outright. So a sign-and-trade is the easiest path for them to acquire the seven-time All Star.
Let's say, for the purposes of this story, that the Knicks agree to execute a sign-and-trade. They'd do so with an eye on trying to maintain financial flexibility for the summer of 2015.
So Phil Jackson and the front office would likely be opposed to taking back players in a sign-and-trade whose contracts extend beyond the 2014-15 season.
That's why a sign-and-trade with the
Chicago Bulls	 involving
Carlos Boozer	 makes sense financially.
Boozer's contract expires at the end of next season, so the Knicks would be able to open up approximately $35 million in cap space for the summer of 2015.
Would Boozer alone be a fair swap for Anthony? Probably not. That's why the Knicks would likely push for Chicago to include draft picks in the transaction -- or a young, cheap player such as
Jimmy Butler	 or
Tony Snell	.
The Knicks' 2015 cap space would also be a consideration in any sign-and-trade with Houston. The Rockets could offer
Jeremy Lin	 and
Omer Asik	 in a sign-and-trade trade package. Both players' contracts expire at the conclusion of the 2014-15 season. But a package centered around Lin and Asik alone probably wouldn't be enough to get a deal done. Again, Houston would probably have to sweeten the pot with draft picks or a young, cheap player such as
Chandler Parsons	.
(Parsons is a restricted free agent and his new contract will likely eat into the Knicks' 2015 cap space. But that's OK because Parson's is the kind of player the Knicks would try to acquire in free agency anyway. Due to CBA restrictions, though, acquiring Parsons would be difficult. The Knicks would somehow need to be below the salary cap apron, which is $4 million above the tax level, after the trade).
Why the Knicks should let Anthony walk and eschew a sign-and-trade:	 If the Knicks let Anthony walk without getting anything in return, logic dictates that they wouldn't be very competitive next season. And that may not be the worst thing in the world.
Why?
The Knicks have a first-round pick in the 2015 draft. If they fail to qualify for the playoffs, that pick will end up in the lottery. By letting Anthony walk, the Knicks would also ensure themselves an incredible amount of cap space in the summer of 2015, without having to let any players acquired in a sign-and-trade leave as free agents.
Without Anthony on the books, the Knicks would be committed to just $20.6 million in salary in 2015-16.
This figure includes contracts for
J.R. Smith	 ($6,399,750 player option for 2015-16) and
Raymond Felton	 ($3,950,313 player option for 2015-16). It also assumes that the Knicks offer
Iman Shumpert	 a qualifying offer of $3,695,169 (and he accepts). Lastly, this includes the third year of
Tim Hardaway Jr.	's contract ($1,304,520) and assumes that the Knicks don't exercise the non-guaranteed option on
Pablo Prigioni	's contract.
The figure also accounts for the salary the Knicks would owe their first-round draft pick (assuming, for argument's sake, that they have the 15th pick) and accounts for seven cap holds for the remaining roster spots ($525,093).
The Knicks' actual cap room for that season would depend on where the league sets the cap. The 2014-15 cap is projected to be $62.9 million. Let's assume the cap for 2015-16 is $65 million.
That means the Knicks would have approximately $44 million in cap space in the summer of 2015. And a first-round draft pick. Not a bad place to be for a team with Jackson as president and the NBA's biggest media market to call home.
Question: If they know Anthony is going to leave, do you think the Knicks should execute a sign-and-trade or let Anthony walk? You can follow Ian Begley on Twitter.
