Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

Bulls still in Carmelo Anthony race with Knicks, Lakers
Carmelo Anthony, right, may be more interested in the Bulls if Taj Gibson is kept.(Photo: Mike Dinovo, USA TODAY Sports)
The 'Melo Mania isn't over just yet. And while the incumbent New York Knicks are considered the likely landing spot for free agent small forward Carmelo Anthony, they may have some reason to be concerned.
A person with knowledge of Anthony's situation confirmed reports that he still is considering the Chicago Bulls, though it's unclear where the Bulls, New York Knicks or Los Angeles Lakers are in the lead in these one-man sweepstakes. The Dallas Mavericks and Houston Rockets are considered out of the running, though Anthony is not known to have given any formal indication of that. The person spoke to USA TODAY Sports on the condition of anonymity because of the private nature of the situation.
The New York Daily News and New York Post reported Wednesday that Anthony was expected to return to the Knicks.
As USA TODAY Sports reported July 4, the Knicks feared the Bulls above the rest all along because of Anthony's longstanding affinity for playing with Derrick Rose, Joakim Noah and the rest of the Chicago lot. Yet while the Knicks made Anthony a maximum contract offer of $129 million over five years and the Lakers put out $96 million over four years, the Bulls have a more complicated financial landscape.
If the Bulls use the amnesty clause on forward Carlos Boozer, as expected, they would have about $10 million in salary cap space. The Bulls could create room by trading forward Taj Gibson as well, but the sixth man of the year runner-up is a major selling point for Anthony as he decides which team can help him win his first championship. Thus, a sign-and-trade with the Knicks involving Boozer seems to be the most likely way for the Bulls to pay Anthony the sort of salary it will take to get him to town.
If the Bulls can't make such a move, the most they could offer Anthony is $73 million over four years. But the 2012-13 NBA scoring champion would be joining a roster known for its defensive aptitude and returning Rose, who has missed most of the past two seasons with knee injuries. With a sign-and-trade, the Bulls likely could pay Anthony $87 million over four years.
Knicks President Phil Jackson told news reporters Thursday in Las Vegas that he was confident about Anthony returning. According to reports, Jackson was asked if he expected a positive outcome in the Anthony situation and responded by saying, "Yes. It means we go forward with some of our other plans, some of our secondary plans to sustain this team.''
GALLERY: Carmelo Anthony through the years
