Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

Boeheim: Melo will take pay cut to win - Chicago Bulls Blog - ESPN Chicago
CHICAGO -- Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim believes his prized pupil,
Carmelo Anthony	, would take less money to sign with a contender this summer.
[+] Enlarge	Michael Martin/NBAE/Getty ImagesJim Boeheim believes finding the best place to win will be the driving force in Carmelo Anthony's free agency decision.
"In my opinion he wants to win," Boeheim told ESPNChicago.com on Tuesday. "I think that's the bottom line. He realizes that this is his peak, three or four years ahead, where's the best place to go and win? I think he'll take a little less money. I don't think that's that big of an issue. Obviously money is important to all of us. There's not many people in the media or any place else that take a better job if they're an extra 20 percent or 30 percent -- and it's still a good situation. Not many people turn those things down. But I think Carmelo wants to win, I think he wants to get into a place where he feels they have a legitimate chance to win. And I think that will be the driving [force], the thing that drives his decision. But obviously he's enjoyed New York, he likes his time there. But I think he wants to win."
Anthony officially opted out of the final year of his contract with the
New York Knicks	 on Monday and is considering the
Chicago Bulls	, among several teams, as he figures out where he wants to play next.
Boeheim doesn't buy into the notion that Anthony is just going to sign with the team that can offer him the most money. The Knicks are the only team that can offer Anthony a five-year, max contract worth $129 million. The Bulls, like the rest of Anthony's suitors, can offer the All-Star only a four-year deal, maximum $96 million contract.
To clear that kind of space, the Bulls would have to amnesty
Carlos Boozer	 and then gut the rest of their roster.
Derrick Rose	,
Joakim Noah	 and Anthony would be joined by a slew of players on minimum salary deals.
The Bulls, like everyone else in the Anthony sweepstakes, are hoping that Anthony will take a little less to build a championship foundation around him.
"I don't think it's a money issue," Boeheim said. "I think he wants to obviously make what is a fair wage like everybody else. I don't think Phil Jackson is taking a minimum salary in New York. I don't think Derek Fisher is, I don't think [Carmelo] should. I think
LeBron James	 is a good example. They're both looking at what's the best place for them from a business perspective. And players can do that now, it's the rules. It's the way [the system's] set up. And I think they should try and make that decision. But it is a hard decision; you don't know exactly where you can go and when."
Boeheim, who guided Anthony and Syracuse to a national championship in 2003, believes that a piece of Anthony's heart remains in New York, but he is intrigued by the possibilities in Chicago.
Podcast: 'Waddle & Silvy Show'
Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim joins "Waddle & Silvy" to discuss the free agent decision of his former star player Carmelo Anthony. Listen
"I think he likes New York," Boeheim said. "I think he's really enjoyed being there. I think his family enjoys it. Yes, I think he does like that. But I think at the end of the day, you have to make a decision on where is the best place to win. Where can you win? And that should be what drives this decision. I think it is what will drive this decision.
"The problem with that is you're just speculating now. 'All right, I come to Chicago, Derrick Rose gets hurt again. Now where are we? How tough is it now to win?' If you've got a healthy Derrick Rose, and the other pieces they have in [Joakim] Noah is certainly one of the best defensive all-around centers in the game. You've got [Jimmy] Butler, you've got a lot of little pieces there, a lot good players, you've got a great coach, a proven coach [in Tom Thibodeau]. I think it's is an interesting choice."
Boeheim knows the health of Rose, who has played just 49 games the past three seasons because of two knee injuries, will be a question Anthony must ponder as he tries to process his decision.
"Obviously that's something that you have to think about, in terms of how healthy Derrick Rose is," Boeheim said. "But I think Carmelo would enjoy playing for Tom. I got to know Tom last summer. I think he's a great coach. I think he's got a good feel for players, how to deal with players, how to talk to them, how to get the best out of them, how to be tough, when to be tough. I think he'd be a great guy to play for, I really do and I think Carmelo would enjoy that. But it's a tough decision, there's no question about it."
