Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

Bulls fans, keep free-agent dreams in check - Jon Greenberg Blog - ESPN Chicago
AP Photo/Alex Brandon	No matter where Carmelo Anthony, LeBron James and Kevin Love end up, a Bulls run starts and ends with a healthy Derrick Rose.
CHICAGO -- Melo! LeBron! Love!
It's the summer of exclamation marks and bold-faced names. Get silly and get angry, basketball fans.
That means you, Bulls fans.
LeBron James	 officially opted out of the last year of his contract Tuesday, an eventuality that still stirred the imagination of millions of NBA fans and, most importantly, a half-dozen general managers and owners.
It's deja vu all over again. It's tough to believe "The Decision" summer was four years ago. That's one MVP award, one max deal, one NBA rule and two knee surgeries ago for
Derrick Rose	.
This time around, James doesn't need a TV show. Miami would have to royally screw up for him to bail. Cross James off your list, Bulls fans. Be proactive.
If LeBron is the white whale,
Carmelo Anthony	 is the big shark. Can the Bulls reel him in? It's possible, but it feels to me like Anthony stays in New York with big promises of contention from Phil Jackson. Prepare your angry tweets calling Anthony greedy.
I'm betting
Kevin Love	 stays in Minnesota and is dangled during the season for future picks and young players.
So where does that leave the Bulls? Don't say basketball hell. Don't even say limbo. No need to get dramatic.
This isn't heaven. It's Chicago, where free-agent dreams go to die. But it's actually not a terrible place to be.
The most likely outcome for the Bulls this summer?
They sign Nick "Swaggy P" Young and
Lance Stephenson	, while swinging a deal for
J.R. Smith	. That would change the ol' paradigm, wouldn't it?
Just kidding. That's my dream as a columnist. But despite their differences, I don't think Gar Forman and
John Paxson	 want to see Tom Thibodeau spontaneously combust.
Seriously, I think the Bulls whiff on the big names but still amnesty
Carlos Boozer	. They bring over
Nikola Mirotic	 from Spain, swing a trade for Magic guard
Arron Afflalo	 (as has been reported) and sign a backup center/power forward. To be fair, I haven't run the numbers on those deals, but they seem doable.
[+] Enlarge	Nathaniel S. Butler/Getty ImagesAssembling a Super Friends team with players such as Carmelo and LeBron isn't the only way to win in the NBA.
The key to the Bulls challenging anyone is a healthy Rose. That might not augur one's hopes for a run to the Finals, but it's the one true thing you'll hear in the coming weeks. It's all about Rose.
Any talk about how the Bulls keep coming short in the postseason under Tom Thibodeau has to mention that Rose has only had one crack at Miami during its four-year run to the Finals.
Would a healthy Rose have changed the story? We'll never know. It's a shame, really. For all the grumbling about Rose's situation, he too was robbed of competing against the best in the prime of his career for three straight postseasons.
It's easy to forget how good Rose was a few years ago.
Although it would be a league-changer to acquire Anthony or Love to pair with whatever would remain of the Bulls' core, it's not a season-ender if they don't get them.
It's a little cliche to bring up the
San Antonio Spurs	 right around now. After all, the Bulls don't have that level of continuity, nor do they have an old-but-effective
Tim Duncan	, the best post man of his generation.
But with great coaching, a blended roster of dependable veterans (some old, some not) and young star
Kawhi Leonard	, the Spurs beat Miami quite easily.
The idea that you need a Super Friends lineup to make the Finals isn't wrong -- the Heat did it four years in a row -- but it's not the only answer in a multiple-choice league.
A healthy Rose is an MVP candidate.
Joakim Noah	 is an MVP candidate on a team without Rose.
Taj Gibson	 is an All-Star-caliber player.
Jimmy Butler	 is a strong defender. That's a good core. Add to that group
Tony Snell	 and
Mike Dunleavy	. I'm not sold on any draft picks being on this team, but we'll see what happens Thursday. Even if there are no trades, I'd guess the Bulls draft and stash a foreign player.
Mirotic would be a versatile scorer, though likely not a dominating one, and Afflalo a dependable option at shooting guard with Butler playing more small forward. A key is bringing in another big man to keep a three-man rotation with Noah and Gibson. The Bulls added injured center
Greg Smith	 late this past season, but they can't rely on Noah playing the position by himself again.
Wizards big man
Marcin Gortat	, if I had to pick a free-agent center, would be a great fit, in theory, but it seems like he has found a home in Washington.
Yes, that's where we are: dreaming of Gortat in a Carmelo world.
It's not basketball hell. It's Chicago.
