Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

Jim Boeheim: Thibodeau loves Melo - Knicks Blog - ESPN New York
Last week, we learned
Carmelo Anthony	 had been quizzing famous Chicagoans about what it's like to live under the microscope in the Windy City.
Now comes word that Chicago coach Tom Thibodeau would love to coach Carmelo.
Yes, the signals keep getting stronger that the Bulls will be a front-runner in the Carmelo sweepstakes.
Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim, who coached alongside Thibodeau at the Team USA training camp last summer in Las Vegas, said in an interview with the New York Post that Thibodeau is smitten with the idea of coaching Anthony.
And, Boeheim says, Carmelo would be excited about playing for Thibodeau.
"I've talked to Tom about Melo, his name has come up," Boeheim said. "I think Tom is very excited about the possibility of getting Carmelo. He likes him. He likes how he plays. He feels he's coachable. I think Tom Thibodeau is one of the better coaches in the NBA. Carmelo would be happy playing for him. It would be a good fit -- the coach-player relationship."
The Bulls are expected to come hard after Anthony once he hits the market July 1.
Chicago doesn't have the cap space to sign Anthony as a free agent but could acquire him via a sign-and-trade, provided the Knicks are willing to cooperate.
The Bulls can offer a package including
Carlos Boozer	 -- whose contract expires after the 2014-15 season -- draft picks and a young, cheap player such as
Jimmy Butler	 or
Tony Snell	.
The Knicks will likely be opposed to taking back players whose contracts extend beyond the 2014-15 season because they want as much cap space as possible to chase free agents that summer. That's why Boozer makes sense financially, even though acquiring the veteran may not make a ton of sense from a basketball perspective.
Why should we put stock into Boeheim's thoughts on Carmelo?
Boeheim's opinion on all things Melo is relevant because the Syracuse coach led Anthony and the Orange to a national title in 2003 -- Carmelo's only season at Syracuse.
Anthony said last season that he still speaks regularly with Boeheim and seeks his advice often.
So when Boeheim speaks about Anthony, it's worth listening to.
As far as free agency goes, Anthony has said that he would like to remain in New York but that he also wants to put himself in a position to win titles. The Bulls -- provided
Derrick Rose	 is healthy -- give him a better opportunity to chase a title next season than the Knicks would.
But Anthony has also said that it would be difficult to uproot his family from New York and bring his young son, Kiyan, to another city.
Chicago, Houston, Miami, the Clippers and Lakers are the main suitors expected to come after Anthony. The Mavericks, Hawks and Cavaliers also are expected to have interest.
You can follow Ian Begley on Twitter.
