Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

Carmelo Anthony will return to Knicks, believes in Phil Jackson's plan for team - NY Daily News
Howard Simmons/New York Daily News Carmelo Anthony believes in Phil Jackson's plan for the Knicks, and will be back in New York next season, a source close to the All-Star forward said Wednesday.
LOS ANGELES -- Carmelo Anthony is ready to chase a championship with Phil Jackson in New York.
After agonizing over a decision for the past week, Anthony is expected to announce on Thursday that he is re-signing with the Knicks, the Daily News has learned. Anthony's agent, Leon Rose, claims that "no decision" has been reached, but a friend who was with Anthony on Wednesday in Los Angeles told the Daily News that Anthony "wants to get it done in New York."
"He will have something for everybody on Thursday," said the friend who was with Anthony before Anthony's scheduled workout with Kevin Durant and Kevin Love in Bel Air. "He is really torn because this is the biggest decision of his career. But he wants to get it done in New York. He told me he believes in Phil."
Players can begin signing free agent contracts on Thursday, and the deal on the table from the Knicks is a max contract worth $129 million over five years. Barring a last-minute change of heart or barring the Chicago Bulls being able to convince Jackson, the Knicks president, to engage in a sign-and-trade, Anthony will re-sign with the Knicks.
The Lakers have also offered Anthony a max deal over four years, which is worth $96 million. The Chicago Bulls can offer only $75 million but could potentially get close to the max in a sign-and-trade.
Anthony, who throughout the season was steadfast in saying that he wanted to remain in New York, was intrigued by moving west and joining his good friend Kobe Bryant in Los Angeles. He also believed that he would be joining a championship contender in Chicago where the Bulls have a strong core with Derrick Rose, Joakim Noah and Taj Gibson. Anthony was impressed with the Bulls' presentation and felt a strong bond with the players and head coach Tom Thibodeau.
But ultimately, Anthony's heart is in New York, where his family is comfortable and where he is confident that Jackson can return the club to prominence.
Anthony's friend says that Anthony prolonging his decision is not a reflection of him having second thoughts about the Knicks or Jackson, who upset the Anthony camp on several occasions by publicly challenging Anthony to take less than the max.
Jackson, fearing he could lose Anthony, met with the All-Star forward in Los Angeles last Thursday and offered him $129 million. The Knicks were expecting to receive a verbal agreement from Anthony that night, but Anthony wanted to take at least the weekend to decide his future.
By Wednesday, Anthony was telling friends that he could put himself in a position to win a championship in New York. The Knicks last won an NBA title in 1973.
Jackson still has to make significant upgrades to turn the Knicks into a contender, especially if LeBron James stays in the Eastern Conference. However, Anthony is pleased by the addition of point guard Jose Calderon, whom the Knicks acquired from the Mavs via a trade on draft night. Once Anthony re-signs, Jackson will continue his pursuit of Lakers free agent Pau Gasol, who is friends with Calderon, his Spanish national team teammate.
That Anthony is training with Durant and Love, his Olympic teammates, is interesting since the Knicks feel they may have a chance to eventually add one of those All-Stars. Love can become a free agent next summer and has mentioned the Knicks as one of the clubs he would consider.
The problem is that Love is expected to be traded by Minnesota before next summer and the Knicks don't have the assets to get him. If Love is traded to a team of his choice, he will likely re-sign with that club. The Boston Celtics, in fact, are a possible destination.
Reid B. Kelley/NBAE/Getty Images Carmelo Anthony wants to build a winner at Madison Square Garden.
Durant, the reigning league MVP, is scheduled to become a free agent in the summer of 2016. There is already talk of Durant leaving Oklahoma City for a larger market.
Coincidentally, Durant played the last few seasons with current Knicks coach Derek Fisher and gave his former teammate a strong endorsement during a recent conversation with Anthony.
Jackson is trying to unload the expiring contracts of both Amar'e Stoudemire and Andrea Bargnani, but those deals are complicated by the fact that the Knicks would likely have to include either Iman Shumpert or Tim Hardaway Jr. in a deal, and Jackson is reluctant to do so.
On a mobile device? Click here to watch video.
