Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

R. Kelly wants Carmelo Anthony on the Bulls so much that he'll write 'Melo a theme song (Videos) | Ball Don't Lie - Yahoo Sports
After Carmelo Anthony officially notified the New York Knicks of his intention to exercise the early termination option in his contract and enter free agency this summer, many NBA fans and observers began speculating as to where the 11-year veteran and seven-time All-Star might go if he decided not to re-up in Manhattan. The chatter has died down a bit over the last two days -- thanks largely to another pretty prominent forward deciding to exercise his ETO, too -- but Anthony still figures to be one of the most sought-after players on the free agent market, a go-to scorer who might be able to push a team in need of an offensive boost from pretender to contender.
One such offense-deficient squad, the Chicago Bulls, is considered one of the top potential 'Melo destinations. The Bulls have the reigning Defensive Player of the Year at center, a reportedly ready-to-go former league MVP at point guard, and an excellent head coach who is reportedly pushing for Chicago to land Anthony. Chicago might also have an ace up its sleeve in the ever important free-agent courting process -- R. Kelly.
The prolific (and, it must be said, intensely problematic) Pied Piper of R&B performed at WGCI-FM's Summer Jam this past weekend, and was asked about the Bulls' chances of landing Carmelo during a backstage interview. The full chat is below, with the 'Melo-centric stuff starting at about the 6:40 mark:
A video or other embedded content has been hidden. Click here to view it.
Apparently, the man behind "Trapped in the Closet" likes the idea of Anthony coming to the hometown Bulls enough to get down on his knees and beg:
Moreover, he'd be willing to write Carmelo his own personalized theme song:
And he'd even be willing to give us just a taste of the tune:
Now we just need him to break us off with a little preview of the remix.
It remains to be seen whether Anthony's swayed by the smooth sounds of the Arruh and the promise of more to come. He's reportedly going to visit the Windy City once free agency opens, so maybe Thibs and company can organize a sit-down. (Oh, to be a fly on the wall at that meeting.)
Hat-tips to SB Nation's James Dator and The Starters' Trey Kerby.

