Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

How State Taxes Could Play A Role In Carmelo Anthony's Landing Spot - Forbes
[Ed note: I collaborated with Sean Packard on this column. Get more from him @athletetax]
Fascinating is the ballad of Carmelo Anthony. As a true freshman, he carried Syracuse to the 2003 NCAA championship (with apologies to Hakim Warrick and Gerry McNamara) during his lone year of college basketball, in an era before true freshman routinely did that sort of thing. Ten years and a whopping three playoff series victories later, Anthony's NBA career has left him painted as anything but a winner; rather, he's widely viewed as a one dimensional, offense-clogging stats-compiler, a modern day Dominque Wilkins if you will.
But that can all change if Anthony can find a way to win a ring. In the NBA, your legacy as a player is tied to the jewelry on your fingers, and it's desperation time for Carmelo. So desperate in fact, that faced with the choice of opting in to the final year of a 3-year deal he signed with the New York Knicks in 2012, Anthony was willing to leave $23 million on the table for the opportunity to seek greener pastures and a win-now scenario elsewhere.
Carmelo Anthony, Bradley Beal (Photo credit: Keith Allison)
So where will Anthony land? The door has certainly not closed on the Knicks, who offer three things to Anthony no other team can--the chance to play in his home town, for a team led by an 11-time champion in Phil Jackson, and yes, for far more money than anyone else can pay him. Under the collective bargaining agreement, the Knicks can offer Anthony a five-year, $129 million deal. Should 'Melo flee Madison Square Garden, however, the most he can earn from another team is $96 million over four years. That's $33 million solid reasons to re-up in New York.
But with a rookie coach in Derek Fisher, limited salary cap room, and even less surrounding talent, the Knicks do not present an opportunity for Anthony to make a run deep into the playoffs any time soon. Further diluting the appeal of the Big Apple, that extra $33 million the Knicks can offer isn't all it's cracked up to be. Why? Because of New York's state and city taxes, among the highest in the country.
As a resident of New York City, Anthony would pay a top state tax rate of 8.82% and an additional 3.876% NYC tax on all of his contract earnings. That's over 12.6% in state and city tax Anthony will pay on a $129 million deal, shaving over $16.25 million off the top and reducing the pre-federal tax value of the max contract to $112.75 million. Of course, Anthony's estimated annual endorsement earnings of $8 million would also be subject to this 12.6% state and city tax.
There's always the fairly realistic possibility that even if Anthony does sign with the Knicks, at 34-years old in 2018, a still-healthy Anthony would opt out of the fifth year of his deal in hopes of signing one final large contract. If that were to happen, then the value of Anthony's Knicks deal would be reduced to approximately $100 million over four years. Take 12.6% for state and city taxes, and returning to NY would net Anthony $87.4 million before federal taxes prior to opting out in 2018.
Couple these prohibitive taxes with New York's rather uninspiring personnel, and it's not far-fetched to think Anthony is on his way out. But to where? Rumors abound that Anthony is focusing on three teams: the Miami Heat, Houston Rockets, and Chicago Bulls. Let's take a look at the pros and cons of each locale, including the potential state tax implications.
Miami Heat
Four straight Finals appearances. No state income taxes. And it is currently home to the best player in the world, LeBron James. But it ain't going to happen. There's no way James, Dwyane Wade, and Chris Bosh all agree to opt-out of their current contracts to take less-than-maximum deals a second time, solely for the sake of freeing up room to sign Anthony.
Not to mention, the Heat don't need Anthony. They didn't get embarrassed by the Spurs because they can't score on the offensive end, and let's be honest, with Anthony, scoring is all you're getting. Rather, Miami was eviscerated in one of the most lopsided series in Finals history because Bosh disappeared, Wade never showed, and three years of having to pay the "Big Three" so limited the Heat's ability to add help at other positions that they were stuck adding low-cost, high-risk reinforcements like Greg Oden and Michael Beasley who didn't pan out.
It would make little sense, then, for the Heat's three stars to take a second round of discounts in order to add a player who doesn't make them appreciably better, particularly when it would only further limit the team's ability to add useful complimentary pieces.
From Anthony's perspective, in order to fit under the salary cap along with the Heat's three incumbent superstars, he would have to take less than the $96 million he's permitted to receive from a new team. Would he be willing to do that when he's already left $23 million on the table by opting out of his Knicks deal for 2015? Not likely.
Houston
Last year, when Dwight Howard was faced with the similar choice of opting in to his final year of a contract with the L.A. Lakers or opting-out and heading elsewhere, I wrote a column explaining that by heading to Houston, Howard could actually earn more over the same four-year period it was anticipated he would play under his new deal (before, as discussed above for Anthony, he would likely opt-out prior to the fifth year to seek one more mega-deal) in Texas than he would in California. The reason, of course, was state taxes.
