Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

"Carmelo loves being a Knick, he loves the city, and he loves the fans," Rose said. "At this stage of his career, he just wants to explore his options."
Anthony can sign a maximum contract worth $129 million over five years with the Knicks. He can sign a maximum deal worth $96 million over four years with another team.
He has discussed the possibility of accepting less than a max contract to help the team that he signs with attract additional free agents. Anthony would consider signing with the Chicago Bulls, Houston Rockets or Dallas Mavericks, sources say.
The Miami Heat have also explored their available options in trying to pursue Anthony, ESPN.com reported earlier this month.
Anthony earlier this month noted that the idea of uprooting his family to another city would be a factor in his decision in free agency.
"The average person just sees opportunity to say that, 'Oh, Melo should go here, Melo should go there. I think he should do this, I think he should do that.' But they don't take into consideration the family aspect of it. Your livelihood. Where you're going to be living at. Do you want your kids to grow up in that place? In that city? Do I want to spend the rest of my career in that situation in that city? So all of that stuff comes into play," Anthony said in an interview with Vice Sports that was taped on June 3.
"My son goes to school (in New York). He loves it here. To take him out and take him somewhere else, he has to learn that system all over again, he has to get new friends. And I know how hard it was for me when I moved from New York to Baltimore at a young age. Having to work your way to try to make friends. And go extra to try to make friends and try to fit in and try to figure out the culture in that area.
[+] Enlarge	Howard Smith/USA TODAY SportsCarmelo Anthony officially opted out of the final year of his contract with the Knicks on Monday and will test free agency this summer.
"As far as this goes, basketball goes, it's hard to just say, 'OK, I'm going to go here, I'm going to make this decision, I'm going to do that. Because everybody's affected by that."
Anthony, 30, also said in the interview that he'd consider the "big picture" when making a decision on where to play next season.
"The average person is looking at it as next year, like it's just one year. 'Next year you win the championship if you go here.' We're looking at the big picture here now," Anthony said. "You're looking at the next six to eight years of your career, of the end of your career at that. So do you want to spend that much time in that place?"
Knicks president Phil Jackson said recently that he hoped Anthony would consider opting into the final year of his contract and testing free agency in the summer of 2015, but Anthony stated publicly throughout the season that he intended to become a free agent this summer.
SportsNation: Where will Melo go?
Will Carmelo Anthony move to the Bulls? Somewhere else? Would you want your team to sign him? Vote! >>>
Teams can meet with Anthony on July 1, the start of the NBA's free-agency period.
Anthony has already done some research on the city of Chicago, and the Bulls have reportedly done some homework on Anthony as well. According to league sources, Anthony has talked to at least one high-profile person who lives in Chicago about what it's like to be famous in the Windy City.
Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau has reached out to some of Anthony's former coaches to inquire about the seven-time All-Star, according to a report in the Chicago Sun Times.
ESPN.com reported in March that Anthony and Bulls center Joakim Noah talked about playing under Thibodeau during the All-Star break and that the conversation turned into a recruiting pitch from Noah to Anthony.
Jackson said late last month that he's "not losing sleep" over Anthony's free agency but is "definitely concerned" about the idea of Anthony signing elsewhere. Anthony has said publicly that he would like to stay in New York but also wants to be in position to win an NBA championship.
The Knicks don't appear to be on the verge of title contention. New York won just 37 games last season and is projected to be over the salary cap this summer, which will limit its ability to sign free agents.
Jackson and the Knicks are expected to try to sell Anthony on the idea that they can add a star to the roster in the summer of 2015, when they are expected to have significant cap space.
