Coverage of Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James leaves fans unsure what to believe - NY Daily News
Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images LeBron James has everyone reporting different percentages on where he'll go, leaving fans confused on what to make of the information.
Deciphering the true meaning of life itself is much easier than finding deeper implications in those two canary yellow "Exotic Car Transport" vans parked in front of LeBron James' house Wednesday.
Or why Heat owner Micky Arison was not "invited" along with Pat Riley to meet with His Highness in Vegas the same afternoon.
Or if Derrick Rose really snubbed Carmelo Anthony during his Chicago visit. And if so, what does it mean?
And is it really true Anthony, Chris Bosh (with a four-year, $88 million Houston offer on the table) and Kevin Love were waiting for James to make a move before they could make theirs?
Hell if we know. NBA commissioner Adam Silver seems like an aware cat but he forgot to get a corporation to sponsor "James Gang Holds NBA Hostage," the league's answer to summer programming such as ABC's "Wipeout." A lie-detector manufacturer would have worked, if only as a symbolic gesture.
Processing the barrage of non-stop information isn't easy. Figuring out what to believe, what is true, false, important or bullspit is challenging, too. There is a chaotic quality to what is going down. Media mayhem.
From the Valley of the Stupid to parts unknown, where every Le-Bron-related tweet must have a subliminal message, and throughout all information precincts, the esteemed messengers have delivered their scenarios (usually featuring the words "domino" and "narrative") on this mysterious, entertaining money game.
This is not about casting aspersions on multi-millionaire players waiting patiently to cash in -- again. Nor is it a shot at NBA reporters who are charged with not only gathering information but offering their opinions, too.
When the dust settles, the NBA landscape is going to change, leading to even more hours of analysis. These Info Men are the tour guides. When the subject is James, and the constellation of NBA stars surrounding him, the most visible reporters are afforded maximum exposure and become personalities, too.
So on LeBronVision, aka ESPN, there are reporters/commentators such as Brian Windhorst, Chris Broussard, Marc Stein and Tom Penn, a former NBA executive, whose mind-numbing salary cap machinations are a fabulous reason to click on Fox Sports 1 and wait for Adrian Wojnarowski's exclusive reports.
Anthony's involvement has set off a mad scramble locally, adding even more stuff to sift through and another layer of competition. On Wednesday afternoon, Daily News Knicks beat man Frank Isola reported Anthony had decided to re-sign with the Knicks, attributing his report to a friend of Anthony's who said Melo "wants to get it done in New York."
Frank Franklin II/AP Sources tell Daily News Carmelo Anthony wishes to return to New York, but ESPN and 'another source' have a different story, leaving everyone confused on who to believe.
Shortly after that story broke, ESPN elected not to pay credence to it (or even mention it). Instead, ESPN reported in a bottom screen crawl that Anthony's agent said there was no deal yet, adding "another source" said Anthony hopes to choose a team "by the end of the week."
This wasn't the first time the Anthony story left us all with choices. Early in the saga there were reports that Anthony's concern about having to move his young son to a new town and new school could play a major role in him staying with the Knicks.
Very heartwarming. Yet it stands to reason that James (Guitar Jimmy) Dolan's ability to give Anthony $129 million over five years would supply greater motivation to stay put, right?
While we are only left to guess, as has been the case throughout this story, the $129 mil just might have played more a role in Anthony's decision than the Little Red School House.
What percentage? Don't know. But this whole percentage thing has basically turned this story into a game show minus Vanna White and a roulette wheel. On ESPN, questions such as "What percentage chance do you give of LeBron winding up back in Cleveland?" are common.
This has resulted in some negativity, even from some of ESPN's own personalities. On ESPN-98.7, Ryan Ruocco mentioned how some ESPN NBA reporters have used the percentage thing. "They have their own methods," an indignant Stephen A. Smith replied. ". . . I don't trust anybody on this (story)."
Ruocco said he has been "listening" to a lot of people working the story. Smith basically told his partner he was wasting his time.
"You are not listening to your boy," Smith said. "There are a lot of Indians out there. You are not listening to the chief."
Remember, Smith was the leader of the pack back in the summer of 2010, before James' own show, "The Decision," hit the airwaves. While The King was trashed for partaking in a self-aggrandizing spectacular, we loved the program. And we were hoping James would do it again.
If only to clear up the van situation.

Knicks Have Their Own Big Decision to Make - WSJ
June 23, 2014 9:53 p.m. ET
As the biggest name to hit the free-agent market this summer, Carmelo Anthony will have an enormous decision to make about whether he remains in New York or opts to leave, as many believe he will.
Of course, as Anthony prepares to consider pitches from around the NBA, the Knicks have their own decisions to make concerning the future with or without their 30-year-old star. In particular, there's the looming issue of what kind of contract they will offer Anthony after his free agency begins on July 1. Money, after all, is one of very few advantages the Knicks have in the negotiations.
The Knicks are able to offer Anthony up to five years and $129 million; any other suitor could offer him a maximum of four years and $96 million. But they are unlikely to do so. Team president Phil Jackson said in April that he'd like Anthony to agree to a pay cut (an idea Anthony had initially floated earlier in the season), because it's increasingly difficult to win in the NBA without star players taking pay concessions to aid their teams' salary-cap situations.
That may be true, but if the Knicks offer Anthony substantially less than a maximum deal--which would give them more flexibility next summer, when they will have ample space to chase free agents--it will only make a team like the Chicago Bulls look more appealing.
The Bulls, who would love to combine Anthony with returning point guard Derrick Rose and reigning Defensive Player of the Year Joakim Noah, could clear enough cap space to offer Anthony a deal starting at around $17 million a year. (The Knicks can offer a maximum of $25.8 million a year.) They could do that by waiving forward Carlos Boozer via the NBA's amnesty provision and renouncing their pending free agents. The Bulls, in fact, have been making cost-conscious roster moves since February to clear salary space for a big name like Anthony.
Winning a title, which doesn't appear to be in the cards for the Knicks anytime soon, is undoubtedly important to Anthony, one of the most accomplished players in history to have never reached the NBA Finals. But he recently reiterated how difficult it would be to leave New York, based on the ties he and his family have established.
"My son goes to school and loves it here," Anthony told Vice Sports in an interview that was filmed June 3 and published Monday. "To take him out and take him somewhere else, he has to learn that system all over again. He has to get new friends. I know how hard it was for me when I moved from New York to Baltimore at a young age. As far as basketball goes, it's hard to just say, 'OK, I'm going to go there.' Everybody is affected by it."
Everybody, that is, including the Knicks. For all the attention focused on Anthony's decision, it will be equally important for the Knicks to make the best decision for everybody as well.
Write to Chris Herring at chris.herring@wsj.com
