R. Kelly wants Carmelo Anthony on the Bulls so much that he'll write 'Melo a theme song (Videos) | Ball Don't Lie - Yahoo Sports
After Carmelo Anthony officially notified the New York Knicks of his intention to exercise the early termination option in his contract and enter free agency this summer, many NBA fans and observers began speculating as to where the 11-year veteran and seven-time All-Star might go if he decided not to re-up in Manhattan. The chatter has died down a bit over the last two days -- thanks largely to another pretty prominent forward deciding to exercise his ETO, too -- but Anthony still figures to be one of the most sought-after players on the free agent market, a go-to scorer who might be able to push a team in need of an offensive boost from pretender to contender.
One such offense-deficient squad, the Chicago Bulls, is considered one of the top potential 'Melo destinations. The Bulls have the reigning Defensive Player of the Year at center, a reportedly ready-to-go former league MVP at point guard, and an excellent head coach who is reportedly pushing for Chicago to land Anthony. Chicago might also have an ace up its sleeve in the ever important free-agent courting process -- R. Kelly.
The prolific (and, it must be said, intensely problematic) Pied Piper of R&B performed at WGCI-FM's Summer Jam this past weekend, and was asked about the Bulls' chances of landing Carmelo during a backstage interview. The full chat is below, with the 'Melo-centric stuff starting at about the 6:40 mark:
A video or other embedded content has been hidden. Click here to view it.
Apparently, the man behind "Trapped in the Closet" likes the idea of Anthony coming to the hometown Bulls enough to get down on his knees and beg:
Moreover, he'd be willing to write Carmelo his own personalized theme song:
And he'd even be willing to give us just a taste of the tune:
Now we just need him to break us off with a little preview of the remix.
It remains to be seen whether Anthony's swayed by the smooth sounds of the Arruh and the promise of more to come. He's reportedly going to visit the Windy City once free agency opens, so maybe Thibs and company can organize a sit-down. (Oh, to be a fly on the wall at that meeting.)
Hat-tips to SB Nation's James Dator and The Starters' Trey Kerby.

