How State Taxes Could Play A Role In Carmelo Anthony's Landing Spot - Forbes
[Ed note: I collaborated with Sean Packard on this column. Get more from him @athletetax]
Fascinating is the ballad of Carmelo Anthony. As a true freshman, he carried Syracuse to the 2003 NCAA championship (with apologies to Hakim Warrick and Gerry McNamara) during his lone year of college basketball, in an era before true freshman routinely did that sort of thing. Ten years and a whopping three playoff series victories later, Anthony's NBA career has left him painted as anything but a winner; rather, he's widely viewed as a one dimensional, offense-clogging stats-compiler, a modern day Dominque Wilkins if you will.
But that can all change if Anthony can find a way to win a ring. In the NBA, your legacy as a player is tied to the jewelry on your fingers, and it's desperation time for Carmelo. So desperate in fact, that faced with the choice of opting in to the final year of a 3-year deal he signed with the New York Knicks in 2012, Anthony was willing to leave $23 million on the table for the opportunity to seek greener pastures and a win-now scenario elsewhere.
Carmelo Anthony, Bradley Beal (Photo credit: Keith Allison)
So where will Anthony land? The door has certainly not closed on the Knicks, who offer three things to Anthony no other team can--the chance to play in his home town, for a team led by an 11-time champion in Phil Jackson, and yes, for far more money than anyone else can pay him. Under the collective bargaining agreement, the Knicks can offer Anthony a five-year, $129 million deal. Should 'Melo flee Madison Square Garden, however, the most he can earn from another team is $96 million over four years. That's $33 million solid reasons to re-up in New York.
But with a rookie coach in Derek Fisher, limited salary cap room, and even less surrounding talent, the Knicks do not present an opportunity for Anthony to make a run deep into the playoffs any time soon. Further diluting the appeal of the Big Apple, that extra $33 million the Knicks can offer isn't all it's cracked up to be. Why? Because of New York's state and city taxes, among the highest in the country.
As a resident of New York City, Anthony would pay a top state tax rate of 8.82% and an additional 3.876% NYC tax on all of his contract earnings. That's over 12.6% in state and city tax Anthony will pay on a $129 million deal, shaving over $16.25 million off the top and reducing the pre-federal tax value of the max contract to $112.75 million. Of course, Anthony's estimated annual endorsement earnings of $8 million would also be subject to this 12.6% state and city tax.
There's always the fairly realistic possibility that even if Anthony does sign with the Knicks, at 34-years old in 2018, a still-healthy Anthony would opt out of the fifth year of his deal in hopes of signing one final large contract. If that were to happen, then the value of Anthony's Knicks deal would be reduced to approximately $100 million over four years. Take 12.6% for state and city taxes, and returning to NY would net Anthony $87.4 million before federal taxes prior to opting out in 2018.
Couple these prohibitive taxes with New York's rather uninspiring personnel, and it's not far-fetched to think Anthony is on his way out. But to where? Rumors abound that Anthony is focusing on three teams: the Miami Heat, Houston Rockets, and Chicago Bulls. Let's take a look at the pros and cons of each locale, including the potential state tax implications.
Miami Heat
Four straight Finals appearances. No state income taxes. And it is currently home to the best player in the world, LeBron James. But it ain't going to happen. There's no way James, Dwyane Wade, and Chris Bosh all agree to opt-out of their current contracts to take less-than-maximum deals a second time, solely for the sake of freeing up room to sign Anthony.
Not to mention, the Heat don't need Anthony. They didn't get embarrassed by the Spurs because they can't score on the offensive end, and let's be honest, with Anthony, scoring is all you're getting. Rather, Miami was eviscerated in one of the most lopsided series in Finals history because Bosh disappeared, Wade never showed, and three years of having to pay the "Big Three" so limited the Heat's ability to add help at other positions that they were stuck adding low-cost, high-risk reinforcements like Greg Oden and Michael Beasley who didn't pan out.
It would make little sense, then, for the Heat's three stars to take a second round of discounts in order to add a player who doesn't make them appreciably better, particularly when it would only further limit the team's ability to add useful complimentary pieces.
From Anthony's perspective, in order to fit under the salary cap along with the Heat's three incumbent superstars, he would have to take less than the $96 million he's permitted to receive from a new team. Would he be willing to do that when he's already left $23 million on the table by opting out of his Knicks deal for 2015? Not likely.
Houston
Last year, when Dwight Howard was faced with the similar choice of opting in to his final year of a contract with the L.A. Lakers or opting-out and heading elsewhere, I wrote a column explaining that by heading to Houston, Howard could actually earn more over the same four-year period it was anticipated he would play under his new deal (before, as discussed above for Anthony, he would likely opt-out prior to the fifth year to seek one more mega-deal) in Texas than he would in California. The reason, of course, was state taxes.
