Knicks Have Their Own Big Decision to Make - WSJ
June 23, 2014 9:53 p.m. ET
As the biggest name to hit the free-agent market this summer, Carmelo Anthony will have an enormous decision to make about whether he remains in New York or opts to leave, as many believe he will.
Of course, as Anthony prepares to consider pitches from around the NBA, the Knicks have their own decisions to make concerning the future with or without their 30-year-old star. In particular, there's the looming issue of what kind of contract they will offer Anthony after his free agency begins on July 1. Money, after all, is one of very few advantages the Knicks have in the negotiations.
The Knicks are able to offer Anthony up to five years and $129 million; any other suitor could offer him a maximum of four years and $96 million. But they are unlikely to do so. Team president Phil Jackson said in April that he'd like Anthony to agree to a pay cut (an idea Anthony had initially floated earlier in the season), because it's increasingly difficult to win in the NBA without star players taking pay concessions to aid their teams' salary-cap situations.
That may be true, but if the Knicks offer Anthony substantially less than a maximum deal--which would give them more flexibility next summer, when they will have ample space to chase free agents--it will only make a team like the Chicago Bulls look more appealing.
The Bulls, who would love to combine Anthony with returning point guard Derrick Rose and reigning Defensive Player of the Year Joakim Noah, could clear enough cap space to offer Anthony a deal starting at around $17 million a year. (The Knicks can offer a maximum of $25.8 million a year.) They could do that by waiving forward Carlos Boozer via the NBA's amnesty provision and renouncing their pending free agents. The Bulls, in fact, have been making cost-conscious roster moves since February to clear salary space for a big name like Anthony.
Winning a title, which doesn't appear to be in the cards for the Knicks anytime soon, is undoubtedly important to Anthony, one of the most accomplished players in history to have never reached the NBA Finals. But he recently reiterated how difficult it would be to leave New York, based on the ties he and his family have established.
"My son goes to school and loves it here," Anthony told Vice Sports in an interview that was filmed June 3 and published Monday. "To take him out and take him somewhere else, he has to learn that system all over again. He has to get new friends. I know how hard it was for me when I moved from New York to Baltimore at a young age. As far as basketball goes, it's hard to just say, 'OK, I'm going to go there.' Everybody is affected by it."
Everybody, that is, including the Knicks. For all the attention focused on Anthony's decision, it will be equally important for the Knicks to make the best decision for everybody as well.
Write to Chris Herring at chris.herring@wsj.com
