Carmelo Anthony still mum on where he will play next season - chicagotribune.com
Carmelo Anthony's agonizing extended into another day.
Despite reports Anthony would make his return to the Knicks official on Thursday, the Bulls still hadn't been notified of the All-Star forward's intentions as the first full day of allowed signings passed.
A source said the Bulls continued efforts to find a third team to make potential sign-and-trade possibilities work if Anthony were to have a change of heart and leave the Knicks. Otherwise, not much changed: The Bulls believe they made a strong impression on Anthony during their in-person pitch July 1 in Chicago.
And they know, with the Knicks' five-year, $129 million on the table, they have to hope Anthony recognizes their ready-to-win roster and proven coach in Tom Thibodeau appeals to the forward's desire to compete for championships sooner rather than later.
Using strictly salary-cap space and without parting with Taj Gibson, the Bulls can offer Anthony a four-year, $73 million deal. But sources said last week the Bulls conveyed to Anthony a sense they would make finances work if he picks them. That's why the attempts to line up a third team were telling on Thursday.
Speaking to reporters in Las Vegas at the NBA Summer League, Knicks President Phil Jackson said he isn't bothered that Anthony hasn't returned his texts since their July 3 meeting in Los Angeles and that five different contract offers are on the table for him.
"I felt really good about my conversation with Carmelo," Jackson told reporters. "We really struck a chord. The two of us, I think, feel really passionately about what we're trying to get accomplished."
The Bulls' free-agency plans are centered on Anthony, but they remain engaged in contingency options. The Bulls have continued daily dialogue with Pau Gasol's camp, a player Jackson confirmed he is trying to woo to the Knicks as well.
Though Jackson has strong ties with Gasol from their shared days with the Lakers, they only can offer him the taxpayer exception of $3.2 million. The Bulls can far surpass that offer if they don't nab Anthony and have confidence a three-year deal can be reached.
General manager Gar Forman has maintained consistently the Bulls will improve significantly this offseason regardless of what transpires in free agency. Anthony is the top goal. But adding Gasol and possibly Nikola Mirotic, whose negotiations also are contingent on what happens with Anthony, would provide depth.
And the return to form of Derrick Rose, who has practiced well this week with the summer-league team, remains the franchise's most important storyline.
kcjohnson@tribune.com
Twitter @kcjhoop
