Jerry Sandusky investigators showed 'inexcusable lack of urgency' in case against ex-Penn State coach: report - NY Daily News
PAT LITTLE/REUTERS Prosecutors and police took up to three years to get the ball rolling in the sex-abuse investigation of Jerry Sandusky (center), a new report finds.
A shoddy investigation enabled ex-Penn State coach Jerry Sandusky to stay on the loose to molest children, says a report released Monday.
But the 339-page report by the Pennsylvania Attorney General's Office found no evidence politics played a role in stalling the 32-month investigation of the pervert coach.
"This was a full and fair review. The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator," said Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane.
Citing the report, Kane blamed the delay in getting Sandusky off the street on a lousy investigation full of "inexplicable delays."
Problems the report cited included:
- Delays in getting documents from Penn State and Sandusky's charity, The Second Mile, which would have revealed a 1998 police report accusing Sandusky of child molestation.
- A bad decision not to search Sandusky's home until two years after the state Attorney General's Office received the case.
The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator.
- A lead prosecutor's recommendation to charge Sandusky in early 2010 was ignored for five months and then denied by superiors who demanded more than one victim to justify the prosecution of an iconic coach.
"The report documents that more investigative work took place in just one month in 2011 than in all of either 2009 or 2010," Kane noted.
While running for attorney general in 2012, Kane implied her predecessor, now Gov. Tom Corbett, may have delayed the investigation for political reasons.
Corbett -- a Republican who in 2011 authorized a $3 million state grant to The Second Mile charity -- denied he interfered in the Sandusky case.
Still, Kane, a Democrat, ordered the review once she took office.
"We found no direct evidence that electoral politics influenced any important decision made in the investigation," said Geoffrey Moulton, a former federal prosecutor who led the probe.
Bradley C Bower/AP Special Deputy Attorney General H. Geoffery Moulton Jr. (right) and Pennsylvania state Attorney General Kathleen Kane (left) ordered the report that exposes 'inexcusable' delays in the Sandusky case.
"In fact, we found nothing ... to indicate (former) Attorney General Corbett made any decisions at all in the investigation," Moulton said.
Corbett issued a statement Monday, saying "this investigation was never about politics."
"The Sandusky investigation was conducted with a single purpose: to ensure justice for the victims and families by taking a child predator off the streets. Nothing more. Nothing less," Corbett said in the statement.
Sandusky, who was legendary Penn State head coach Joe Paterno's defensive mastermind, was convicted in June 2012 of molesting 10 boys over a 15-year span.
The 70-year-old Sandusky was sentenced to up to 60 years in prison.

Inquirer Editorial: Slow road to justice - Philly.com
The report released Monday said the 16-month review had failed to reveal any "direct evidence that electoral politics influenced" the Sandusky investigation. But Kane said it did "show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial child predator."
Kane has been criticized for using complaints about the pace of the Sandusky investigation to bolster her own political ambitions. But her office's review, conducted by former federal prosecutor and law professor Geoffrey Moulton, has produced important findings that indicate investigative foot-dragging did occur and must not be repeated.
The report said one prosecutor was ready to charge Sandusky in 2010 but could not get approval from her superiors. It said prosecutors didn't get a key subpoena for Penn State records until 21 months after the attorney general took over the case. Once records were searched, four more victims were found.
Corbett chose not to be interviewed for the report, nor did he write a response to be attached to it. But a spokesman on Monday defended the Sandusky investigation, saying it was "conducted with a single purpose, which was to ensure justice for the victims and their families." To that point, Sandusky was convicted on 45 of 48 counts and must serve up to 60 years in prison.
Kane deserves credit for pursuing her review. After all, no government official or agency should be above such scrutiny. That includes Kane, whose actions have also been under a microscope ever since it was revealed that she hastily ended a sting operation that began under Corbett and caught several Philadelphia politicians taking cash from an undercover informant.
Perhaps all the flak she has been catching is why Kane made an assertion not in the Sandusky report. She implied that two children were likely molested because he wasn't arrested sooner. Kane puts the credibility of her office at risk when she seems to make allegations on the fly. If she isn't ready to prove it, maybe she shouldn't say it.
