Debbie Wasserman Schultz: Hobby Lobby ruling turns 'dial back' - Kendall Breitman - POLITICO.com
Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, is charging the Supreme Court with turning "the dial back" on women's rights with its ruling on contraception Monday.
"Birth control costs about $600 a year," the Florida Democrat said in an interview with MSNBC on Monday. "That financially impacts women; it prevents them from being able to join the middle class. Let's keep in mind, birth control has affected women economically positively since its creation, and this is going to turn the dial back."
Continue Reading
Wasserman Schultz's criticisms came after the Supreme Court handed down a ruling in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby that says for-profit companies can claim a religious right to opt out of covering certain forms of birth control for employees and their families. Although the decision has been cast as narrow, as it applies only to closely held companies and contraception, Wasserman Schultz claims that the implications could be far-reaching.
(Also on POLITICO: SCOTUS rules in favor of Hobby Lobby)
"This is a stifling decision for American women," Wasserman Schultz said. "It's a decision that blocks women from being able to make their own health care decisions. ... This is deeply troubling, because you have organized religions that oppose health care, period."
Wasserman Schultz also expressed concerns for later implications of the law, pointing out that women use birth control to treat illnesses, such as endometriosis and serious menstrual cramping, and saying "the life function day to day for women is dramatically impacted by this decision."
Wasserman Schultz said the ruling will affect Republicans' chances at gaining women's votes.
"It's very clear to American women, yet again, that Republicans want to do everything they can to have the long hand of government, and now the long hand of business, reach into a woman's body and make health care decisions for her," Wasserman Schultz said. "That's totally unacceptable."
