The fatal flaws Brazil must address, despite Neymar's brilliance | The Rio Report - Yahoo Eurosport UK
After an early scare against Croatia and a deeply unconvincing and perhaps worrying performance against Mexico, Brazil have avoided the unthinkable and qualified for the second round of their World Cup as group winners thanks to a 4-1 win over Cameroon.
Neymar produced a masterclass that belied the pressure the most high-profile Brazilian at a home World Cup must be under, sashaying around some admittedly static Cameroon defenders with an insouciance and freedom that very much fits with the general theme of this World Cup.
[JACK LANG: NEYMAR IS THE GARRINCHA FOR A NEW GENERATION]
Indeed, an entire country will be praying that the injury the No.10 appeared to suffer in the second half, which saw him withdrawn before the end of the game, is not serious and his substitution was merely a note of caution from Luis Felipe Scolari.
One shudders to think where Brazil would be without Neymar. The Barcelona man has been largely disappointing for his club side since joining from Santos last summer, a transfer that as we know proved more costly than simply the transfer fee. However, under the pressure of essentially carrying the most storied international football team of all time on his back, Neymar is standing firm and stepping up in a massive way.
The problem is that, while Brazil aren't quite a one-man team at the moment, Neymar is their only attacker who looks close to belonging in a World Cup-winning team.
['I'M LIVING A DREAM': NEYMAR TAKES PLACE AMONG THE GREATS]
Fred has reached almost comical levels of ineptitude now. The man is clearly not a bad footballer, but one who is out of his depth at international level, never mind as the starting centre-forward for Brazil. Watching him trying to bundle the ball over the line in the first half was a little like watching someone caught in a duvet cover, scrabbling around in an increasingly desperate attempt to escape, only succeeding in making his plight even funnier for those watching.
The faith placed in him by Luis Felipe Scolari is admirable in many ways, but it is misplaced, and a goal that basically hit him and ricocheted into an empty net shouldn't alter the fact that Fred has no place in a team with aspirations to win the tournament.
The problem is that Scolari doesn't have any particularly appealing alternatives to the Fluminense man. The only other specialist centre-forward in his squad is Jo, who Manchester City fans will be chillingly familiar with and who 'boasts' a career scoring record of under one in three. The only other realistic options are moving Hulk, a man with his own form 'issues', into the centre, or a change in system to make Neymar a 'false nine', which isn't especially appealing given Brazil's golden boy is doing quite nicely in his current role.
[CLINICAL BRAZIL THRASH CAMEROON TO TOP GROUP]
There were more signs in Brazil's win over Cameroon that, despite their victories so far, they will come unstuck when they face a half-decent team, and that is exactly what they will do in the next round. Chile have been hugely impressive in the tournament so far, and despite losing to the Netherlands earlier on Monday, they have plenty of players who can hurt a fragile Brazilian backline.
Julio Cesar has hardly played in the last year or so, Dani Alves isn't the player he was, Marcelo has always been a little, shall we say, 'up and down', while David Luiz doesn't exactly inspire confidence and solidity either. At times it seems Thiago Silva is holding things together on his own, something that is a recipe for disaster with Alexis Sanchez in his current buzzing form.
The good news for Brazil is that at least Scolari seems to have seen sense over Paulinho. The Spurs midfielder's form for the national side has differed from that at White Hart Lane, but his anonymous showings in this World Cup so far surely mean he will be dropped for the next game.
Scolari introduced Fernandinho in the second half, and there was almost instantly a change in the Brazil midfield, with more energy from the Manchester City man, energy that manifested itself in a goal, scored via the sort of toe punt Romario would have been proud of.
Brazil are safely through to the second round, but unless their performances improve markedly, they may find themselves embarrassed and out of their own World Cup way ahead of schedule.


Neymar: No Pressure When You Are Living a Dream - ABC News
Neymar feels he has nothing to worry about at the World Cup.
He is playing in the biggest tournament of his life the same way he played in tournaments in Brazil when he was a teenager. And it's a simple secret that keeps him at ease no matter the stage: He just reminds himself how lucky he is.
Neymar knows he is carrying the hopes of the entire host nation at the World Cup, but says he is not letting that get into his head.
"There is no pressure when you are living your dream," the 22-year-old Brazil and Barcelona star said. "I'm doing what I've always wanted to do since I was a little kid. Today my dream is coming true, I'm playing the matches that I've always wanted to be playing."
He said he knows it's "an honor" to be where he is, and that he is aware that millions of Brazilians would do anything to be in his shoes.
In just his first World Cup, Neymar is already playing well enough to show why Brazilians consider him one of the country's best players of all time.
He leads the tournament with four goals in three matches, and already has scored more World Cup goals than Cristiano Ronaldo, who won the FIFA Ballon d'Or award this year. The Portugal striker has scored two goals in 12 World Cup matches dating back to his debut in 2006.
Neymar also had netted more goals than Lionel Messi before the Argentina striker struck twice on Wednesday to take his tally to five goals in 11 matches in the sport's showcase event, also dating back to 2006.
Pele scored four goals in his first three World Cup matches in 1958.
"People talk about Neymar having a chance to be the best in the world, but that will be a consequence of what he does for Brazil," coach Luiz Felipe Scolari said. "It's something that will likely come naturally."
The day before the opening match, Neymar said he only has one goal at this World Cup.
"I don't want to be the best player, I don't want to be the top scorer," he said. "All I want is to win the World Cup title. It's what I always dreamed about. It doesn't matter how it happens, I just want to win the title."
Neymar is the leading scorer in this Brazil squad with 35 goals in 52 matches. Striker Fred is the one closest to him with 18 goals in 37 games.
"All I want to do is play football and help my teammates and my team," Neymar said. "Not only by scoring goals, but also by doing everything possible to help Brazil win."
Neymar was decisive for Brazil when it needed him most. He scored twice in the difficult 3-1 win over Croatia, then got the first two goals in the 4-1 victory over Cameroon on Monday. Neymar had Brazil's best chances in the 0-0 draw against Mexico, but was denied by a great performance by goalkeeper Guillermo Ochoa.
At halftime of Brazil's win against Cameroon, after Neymar had already scored both of his goals, television images showed several members of Cameroon's squad asking to take photos with the Brazilian striker as he went into the dressing room.
Neymar had always been a promising player in Brazil, where he thrived with club Santos since he was only 17 years old. But there were doubts about his greatness with the national team until he finally came up big in last year's Confederations Cup, the World Cup warm-up tournament. He was voted the competition's best player and led the hosts to the title with four goals, including one in the final against Spain.
Neymar and Brazil will play Chile in the round of 16 on Saturday in Belo Horizonte, where the hosts again will be the favorites to advance.
"We are on the right track," Neymar said.
