The fatal flaws Brazil must address, despite Neymar's brilliance | The Rio Report - Yahoo Eurosport UK
After an early scare against Croatia and a deeply unconvincing and perhaps worrying performance against Mexico, Brazil have avoided the unthinkable and qualified for the second round of their World Cup as group winners thanks to a 4-1 win over Cameroon.
Neymar produced a masterclass that belied the pressure the most high-profile Brazilian at a home World Cup must be under, sashaying around some admittedly static Cameroon defenders with an insouciance and freedom that very much fits with the general theme of this World Cup.
[JACK LANG: NEYMAR IS THE GARRINCHA FOR A NEW GENERATION]
Indeed, an entire country will be praying that the injury the No.10 appeared to suffer in the second half, which saw him withdrawn before the end of the game, is not serious and his substitution was merely a note of caution from Luis Felipe Scolari.
One shudders to think where Brazil would be without Neymar. The Barcelona man has been largely disappointing for his club side since joining from Santos last summer, a transfer that as we know proved more costly than simply the transfer fee. However, under the pressure of essentially carrying the most storied international football team of all time on his back, Neymar is standing firm and stepping up in a massive way.
The problem is that, while Brazil aren't quite a one-man team at the moment, Neymar is their only attacker who looks close to belonging in a World Cup-winning team.
['I'M LIVING A DREAM': NEYMAR TAKES PLACE AMONG THE GREATS]
Fred has reached almost comical levels of ineptitude now. The man is clearly not a bad footballer, but one who is out of his depth at international level, never mind as the starting centre-forward for Brazil. Watching him trying to bundle the ball over the line in the first half was a little like watching someone caught in a duvet cover, scrabbling around in an increasingly desperate attempt to escape, only succeeding in making his plight even funnier for those watching.
The faith placed in him by Luis Felipe Scolari is admirable in many ways, but it is misplaced, and a goal that basically hit him and ricocheted into an empty net shouldn't alter the fact that Fred has no place in a team with aspirations to win the tournament.
The problem is that Scolari doesn't have any particularly appealing alternatives to the Fluminense man. The only other specialist centre-forward in his squad is Jo, who Manchester City fans will be chillingly familiar with and who 'boasts' a career scoring record of under one in three. The only other realistic options are moving Hulk, a man with his own form 'issues', into the centre, or a change in system to make Neymar a 'false nine', which isn't especially appealing given Brazil's golden boy is doing quite nicely in his current role.
[CLINICAL BRAZIL THRASH CAMEROON TO TOP GROUP]
There were more signs in Brazil's win over Cameroon that, despite their victories so far, they will come unstuck when they face a half-decent team, and that is exactly what they will do in the next round. Chile have been hugely impressive in the tournament so far, and despite losing to the Netherlands earlier on Monday, they have plenty of players who can hurt a fragile Brazilian backline.
Julio Cesar has hardly played in the last year or so, Dani Alves isn't the player he was, Marcelo has always been a little, shall we say, 'up and down', while David Luiz doesn't exactly inspire confidence and solidity either. At times it seems Thiago Silva is holding things together on his own, something that is a recipe for disaster with Alexis Sanchez in his current buzzing form.
The good news for Brazil is that at least Scolari seems to have seen sense over Paulinho. The Spurs midfielder's form for the national side has differed from that at White Hart Lane, but his anonymous showings in this World Cup so far surely mean he will be dropped for the next game.
Scolari introduced Fernandinho in the second half, and there was almost instantly a change in the Brazil midfield, with more energy from the Manchester City man, energy that manifested itself in a goal, scored via the sort of toe punt Romario would have been proud of.
Brazil are safely through to the second round, but unless their performances improve markedly, they may find themselves embarrassed and out of their own World Cup way ahead of schedule.


World Cup 2014 : Neymar double sinks Cameroon 4-1, Brazil sail into Round of 16 - Hindustan Times
Neymar scored a brilliant brace as Brazil beat Cameroon 4-1 on Monday to secure top spot in World Cup Group A and a last-16 tie against Chile.
Neymar looked unstoppable once again and scored twice against Cameroon. (AFP Photo)
The Barcelona forward scored the 100th goal of the tournament in Brazil's 100th World Cup finals match to put the hosts ahead in the 17th minute. He restored their lead before the interval after Joel Matip had equalised for Cameroon.
Neymar has now scored four goals in his first three World Cup matches, equalling a feat achieved by his great predecessor Pele.
Fred got Brazil's third early in the second half with substitute Fernandinho adding a late fourth.
Brazil's win, combined with Mexico's 3-1 victory against Croatia in the other Group A game in Recife, ensured that they progress as group winners, ahead of Mexico on goal difference.
Brazil were much stronger, but head into Saturday's game against Chile in Belo Horizonte knowing that they can still improve.
Cameroon were already out of the tournament after losing their opening two matches, but the Indomitable Lions had the advantage of playing without any pressure.
Volker Finke's men passed the ball confidently early on and Vincent Aboubakar gave the hosts something to think about with a shot that was blocked by Marcelo, but it was Brazil who took the lead.
The opening goal came as a huge release for Brazil and their fans in the crowd of over 69,000.
Neymar's coolly sidefooted into the far corner of the net first-time from a low Luiz Gustavo cross.
However, the goal owed as much to the industry and craft of Luiz Gustavo, who did superbly to rob possession from Benjamin Moukandjo on the left before delivering a pinpoint ball.
It was the first time in the tournament that Scolari's side had scored the first goal of a game, and both Neymar and Fred came close to increasing their advantage, the latter lunging desperately to connect with a Paulinho cross but unable to scramble the ball home.
Read: 'Little bird' Neymar soars higher as Brazil demolish Cameroon
Fred off the mark
Instead, Cameroon silenced the home fans when they drew level in the 26th minute.
Allan Nyom got away from Dani Alves on the left and delivered a low ball that evaded Thiago Silva and David Luiz to give Matip the easiest of finishes. The Schalke player recorded Cameroon's first goal at this World Cup.
Brazil did not panic, and Neymar again intervened to restore their lead in the 34th minute.
Neymar celebrates after scoring his second goal. (AFP Photo)
When Nyom's headed clearance was returned by Marcelo, the Barcelona player collected possession and cut inside before sending in a low shot from the edge of the area that passed underneath Nicolas Nkoulou and went right through Charles Itandje in goal.
Scolari replaced Paulinho at the interval, sending on Fernandinho, and the Manchester City midfielder had an immediate impact, helping Brazil open up a two-goal cushion four minutes into the second period.
His pass released David Luiz on the left-hand edge of the area and the latter's centre was headed into a gaping goal from four yards by the grateful Fred, who scored his first goal of the finals.
The striker may just have been in an offside position when the cross came in, but the Swedish assistant referee did not raise his flag, much to Cameroon's frustration and Fred's relief.
Neymar was withdrawn for the closing stages and watched as Fernandinho poked home the fourth goal in the 84th minute, having combined superbly with Fred and Oscar after Cameroon lost possession in their own half.
Mexico's captain Rafael Marquez, appearing in his fourth finals, broke the deadlock in the 72nd minute to set his team on the way to a 3-1 win over Croatia in Recife.
Andres Guardado and Javier Hernandez added the further goals so that Mexico now play Netherlands in the next round.
Midfielder Hector Herrera was desperately unlucky to see 25-yard strike cannon back off the crossbar on the quarter-hour.
Mexico also had a penalty appeal for a handball against Darijo Srna turned down in the second half. But Croatia were eventually undone as Marquez rose highest to head home a corner from Herrera.
Mexico doubled their lead on 75 minutes as Guardado steered home after he was picked out in the box by Oribe Peralta.
Substitute Hernandez then ghosted in unmarked to nod in a header at the far post as Miguel Herrera's men picked apart a ravaged Croatia defence at will.
Croatia pulled one back through Ivan Perisic three minutes from time while substitute Ante Rebic was sent off in the dying stages for a wild lunge on Carlos Pena.
