The fatal flaws Brazil must address, despite Neymar's brilliance | The Rio Report - Yahoo Eurosport UK
After an early scare against Croatia and a deeply unconvincing and perhaps worrying performance against Mexico, Brazil have avoided the unthinkable and qualified for the second round of their World Cup as group winners thanks to a 4-1 win over Cameroon.
Neymar produced a masterclass that belied the pressure the most high-profile Brazilian at a home World Cup must be under, sashaying around some admittedly static Cameroon defenders with an insouciance and freedom that very much fits with the general theme of this World Cup.
[JACK LANG: NEYMAR IS THE GARRINCHA FOR A NEW GENERATION]
Indeed, an entire country will be praying that the injury the No.10 appeared to suffer in the second half, which saw him withdrawn before the end of the game, is not serious and his substitution was merely a note of caution from Luis Felipe Scolari.
One shudders to think where Brazil would be without Neymar. The Barcelona man has been largely disappointing for his club side since joining from Santos last summer, a transfer that as we know proved more costly than simply the transfer fee. However, under the pressure of essentially carrying the most storied international football team of all time on his back, Neymar is standing firm and stepping up in a massive way.
The problem is that, while Brazil aren't quite a one-man team at the moment, Neymar is their only attacker who looks close to belonging in a World Cup-winning team.
['I'M LIVING A DREAM': NEYMAR TAKES PLACE AMONG THE GREATS]
Fred has reached almost comical levels of ineptitude now. The man is clearly not a bad footballer, but one who is out of his depth at international level, never mind as the starting centre-forward for Brazil. Watching him trying to bundle the ball over the line in the first half was a little like watching someone caught in a duvet cover, scrabbling around in an increasingly desperate attempt to escape, only succeeding in making his plight even funnier for those watching.
The faith placed in him by Luis Felipe Scolari is admirable in many ways, but it is misplaced, and a goal that basically hit him and ricocheted into an empty net shouldn't alter the fact that Fred has no place in a team with aspirations to win the tournament.
The problem is that Scolari doesn't have any particularly appealing alternatives to the Fluminense man. The only other specialist centre-forward in his squad is Jo, who Manchester City fans will be chillingly familiar with and who 'boasts' a career scoring record of under one in three. The only other realistic options are moving Hulk, a man with his own form 'issues', into the centre, or a change in system to make Neymar a 'false nine', which isn't especially appealing given Brazil's golden boy is doing quite nicely in his current role.
[CLINICAL BRAZIL THRASH CAMEROON TO TOP GROUP]
There were more signs in Brazil's win over Cameroon that, despite their victories so far, they will come unstuck when they face a half-decent team, and that is exactly what they will do in the next round. Chile have been hugely impressive in the tournament so far, and despite losing to the Netherlands earlier on Monday, they have plenty of players who can hurt a fragile Brazilian backline.
Julio Cesar has hardly played in the last year or so, Dani Alves isn't the player he was, Marcelo has always been a little, shall we say, 'up and down', while David Luiz doesn't exactly inspire confidence and solidity either. At times it seems Thiago Silva is holding things together on his own, something that is a recipe for disaster with Alexis Sanchez in his current buzzing form.
The good news for Brazil is that at least Scolari seems to have seen sense over Paulinho. The Spurs midfielder's form for the national side has differed from that at White Hart Lane, but his anonymous showings in this World Cup so far surely mean he will be dropped for the next game.
Scolari introduced Fernandinho in the second half, and there was almost instantly a change in the Brazil midfield, with more energy from the Manchester City man, energy that manifested itself in a goal, scored via the sort of toe punt Romario would have been proud of.
Brazil are safely through to the second round, but unless their performances improve markedly, they may find themselves embarrassed and out of their own World Cup way ahead of schedule.


'Little bird' Neymar soars higher as Brazil demolish Cameroon - Hindustan Times
Brazil stretched their good record against African teams to the third straight World Cup. And it happened through a large dose of pure magic from Neymar, fittingly at a stadium named after Garrincha. In terms of size, Neymar too can be called a "little bird" as Garrincha was.
Neymar has been Brazil's one-stop solution, his brilliance papering over problems at the back, the poor form of Hulk, Paulinho and Fred. True, Fred scored but he may have been marginally off-side while heading in. Brazil will only hope this gives him the confidence for at this point that is what he needs most. Hulk had an ordinary game, his quality of delivery and decision-making in the front third not what it is expected of a player expected to add width to the team that is aiming for an unprecedented sixth World Cup. And it was only after Paulinho was replaced by Fernandinho that Brazil seemed to have more bite in attack.
The tendency of David Luiz and Dani Alves to go into tackles early too could hit the team especially because their next opponents Chile have players who can hurt if given space. Once each against Cameroon, Luiz and Alves did that and it was the right-back's inability to stop Allan Nyom that led to
Cameroon's equaliser. Luiz was ball watching as Joel Matip tapped home. The goal came during a sustained spell of domination from Cameroon during which they forced a slew of corner-kicks and once hit the upright. Brazil had 60% possession in the first half but Cameroon had as many shots on goal as them --- nine.
Credit to Scolari for refusing to buckle under pressure and back his team. All of Brazil, it seemed, wanted Fred benched but Sciolari announced at the pre-match media conference that he had full trust in his players. Skipper Thiago Silva too backed Fred, saying even if he doesn't score he would make space for Oscar and Neymar. Paulinho, Scolari accepted, hadn't reached the level he had during the Confederations Cup but that, as he has been saying about the team, is because improvement is a gradual process.
Without Paulinho's help, Brazil seem more vulnerable to counter-attacks especially because they have such attacking full backs. Why only Dani Alves and Marcelo, even David Luiz loves going forward.
The one player who has reached the level of the Confederations Cup is Luiz Gustavo. It was his pass that fetched Neymar's opening goal, more importantly he has also been to shield the team's defence. In this land of football artistes, he is the Dunga kind of player: you realise what you are missing only when he isn't there. Gustavo has been consistent in three games, perhaps the only player other than Neymar and Julio Cesar. The other revelation in this game was Oscar's effort to scrap for the ball in the midfield. Scolari sure has got this team to do his bidding.
With the Cameroon defence preferring a high line, Brazil were right in getting their centre-backs to try and float balls into space. Also, Cameroon's midfield to often didn't play close enough to their defence and that led to Brazil getting space in a crucial area. Brazil had a much better second half having been given the lead by the genius of Neymar in the first. Not only did he wrong-foot Cameroon goalie Charles Itandje twice before the interval, he also fired a volley that the goalie barely parried. Twice he sent the ball one way and turned the other linking up with Oscar for a move that ended with Hulk couldn't finish. Neymar is really enjoying this World Cup. It is important for Brazil that he does till the middle of next month.
