MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament | The Salt Lake Tribune
MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament
Cleveland * Allowing nine runs in the last two innings wasn't the worst thing that happened to the New York Yankees on Thursday.
New York's 9-3 loss to the Cleveland Indians was overshadowed by the news that rookie sensation Masahiro Tanaka has a partially torn ligament in his right elbow.
General manager Brian Cashman said in a conference call during the game that Tanaka could return in six weeks, but didn't rule out the possibility of Tommy John surgery if the right-hander doesn't respond to a rehab program.
"Certainly disappointed for our player, for our organization," Cashman said. "He's been an important piece. We have a tremendously gifted and tough player. We'll see how he responds."
"It is what it is," manager Joe Girardi said. "We're not going to have him for at least six weeks and that's the tough part, but I'm optimistic that we'll have him back."
Tanaka was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday and had an MRI in New York, one day after his worst major league outing. He flew to Seattle on Thursday.
Cashman said Tanaka saw three doctors, including Yankees head physician Dr. Christopher Ahmad, and all three agreed that a six-week rehab program was the best option at this time.
"If we knew today that the best course of action was Tommy John surgery, despite the name and the amount of the investment, we would be doing Tommy John surgery," Cashman said.
Girardi, looking for any positive sign, said, "Guys have had success doing this and we'll keep our fingers crossed. That gives you reason for optimism that he's going to pitch again for us this year."
Tanaka, who is tied for the major league lead with 12 wins, allowed five runs and 10 hits Tuesday night in a 5-3 loss to the Indians. The All-Star is 12-4 with a 2.51 ERA in 18 starts, but has lost three of his past four outings.
story continues below
The injury is a huge blow to a battered Yankees rotation already was missing CC Sabathia, Ivan Nova and Michael Pineda to injuries. Tanaka had been a stabilizing ace in his first season since arriving from Japan.
"We've lost 80 percent of it," Girardi said. "There's really not a whole lot that you can go back and redo. You just gotta go out and find a way."
Copyright 2014 The Salt Lake Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Yanks' Future Hinges on a Troubled Elbow
Masahiro Tanaka's Injury Raises Questions for Yankees
Photo
The Yankees' Masahiro Tanaka has a partial tear of the ulnar collateral ligament in his pitching elbow. Credit Al Bello/Getty Images
This is not about 2014 anymore. The Yankees will not and cannot say that, but it is the truth. Masahiro Tanaka was the only player keeping this season from sinking, and now he has a partial tear in his ulnar collateral ligament.
"There are success stories," General Manager Brian Cashman insisted in his conference call with reporters on Thursday, but success, in this case, would still probably mean failure for the Yankees. Even if the platelet-rich plasma injections work on Tanaka's right elbow, and he returns this season, that means at least six weeks without their ace in the heat of a pennant race.
Yes, the American League East is relatively weak, and the Yankees could always make more trades. But they have now lost four starting pitchers, and their lineup is too old and brittle to muscle past opponents. The Baltimore Orioles, who have impact players in their prime, were the best team in the division at the start of the season, and they still are.
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage
The really important question is whether Tanaka can pitch in 2016. If the Yankees try this plan and still miss the playoffs, and Tanaka breaks down again next season ... well, it is easy to figure out. Recovery from Tommy John surgery takes at least a year.
Every player is different, Cashman said the doctors told him, and they are right, of course. But ask the Los Angeles Dodgers how this plan worked with Chad Billingsley.
In September 2012, the Dodgers announced that Billingsley -- then a 27-year-old former All-Star with six seasons of at least 10 wins -- had a partial U.C.L. tear. Instead of having surgery, he underwent plasma injections and was back on the mound the next April. He started twice, needed Tommy John surgery anyway and has not pitched since. Last month he tore the flexor tendon in his pitching arm.
That is the nightmare scenario. The Yankees are far from a hard-luck franchise, but they are now becoming used to such harrowing visions.
Players seem indestructible from a distance, come to the Bronx, often experience success for a while and then corrode -- with lots and lots of money still owed them. It has happened with the Yankees' three highest-paid players -- Alex Rodriguez, C. C. Sabathia and Mark Teixeira -- and now Tanaka's immediate future is in danger.
There were warning signs about Tanaka, the way there were for the Mets when they traded for Johan Santana in 2007 and signed him for $137.5 million. Both pitchers were durable and dominant for their former teams, the very definition of an ace. They started their New York careers exhibiting those same traits.
But Santana's durability quickly caught up to him, and shoulder trouble ruined his career.
Tanaka, at least, has a more correctable issue. The Yankees knew about Tanaka's huge workload in Japan, but they still invested $175 million in him. Theirs was the highest offer, Cashman has said, but to be fair, other teams also made lavish bids for Tanaka, a polished star who is only 25.
The Yankees could not have known how much they would really need him. Sabathia, Ivan Nova (Tommy John surgery) and Michael Pineda were all gone by May 10, and the offense has gotten little from the newcomers Carlos Beltran and Brian McCann. The Yankees are 13-5 when Tanaka pitches and 33-40 when he does not.
That record equates to a winning percentage in the neighborhood of the White Sox, the Twins and -- how about this? -- the Mets, who have played this season without their ace, Matt Harvey, who had Tommy John surgery last October.
So without Tanaka, the Yankees are essentially the same team as the Mets without Harvey. At more than double the payroll.

