Mets' Matt Harvey has advice for Yankees' Masahiro Tanaka | NJ.com
CLEVELAND -- Matt Harvey had some advice for Masahiro Tanaka after hearing the Yankees' ace had a partial elbow ligament tear and would try to rehab it rather than have season-ending Tommy John surgery.
"Go with what you feel," Harvey said, according to The Star-Ledger's Michael Fensom.
Doctors told the Yankees Thursday that Tanaka had a partial tear of his ulnar collateral ligament, general manager Brian Cashman said.
But they also said that the damage was small enough that the 25-year-old Japanese righty could return to The Bronx in six weeks with a rehab plan that includes an injection of platelet-enriched blood into the elbow, rest and a throwing program, Cashman said.
But if it doesn't work, the GM said, Tommy John surgery -- which usually sidelines a pitcher for between 12-18 months -- would be the most likely option.
It would also effectively tank the Yankees' playoff hopes.
Harvery, the Mets' ace, dealt with a similar, but different, situation in 2013.
In August of that year, Harvey was diagnosed with a partially torn UCL. But he was given an option: Try to rehab it or get Tommy John.
Harvey at first tried to avoid the knife, but he realized after a few weeks that was a bad idea and opted for the surgery in October 2013. Harvey isn't expected to return until 2015.
Though Harvey ultimately picked surgery, he said he believed Tanaka could rehab his tear.
"I think everybody is different," Harvey said. "No one is saying he can't rehab, be completely fine and never have an issue again. For me personally it was a mental thing and something I no longer wanted to think about."
Harvey said that Tanaka will have to make his own decision, too.
"I would tell him to go with what you feel," Harvey said. "I didn't listen to anybody. I went off of my personal feelings. It's your body that you want to throw with again, obviously. If you wanna go out and try not to have (surgery) and your mind is set to that and you're 100 percent committed to that then all the more power to you. But if it's the other way around, go get it done. For me, it took a while, obviously, and I went south to Pensacola, Fla., to have surgery."
