Wimbledon 2014, Day One: Sam Stosur and Sloane Stephens suffer surprise defeats on the opening day - Telegraph
"Maria is a great player. She's done well here in the past. I knew it was going to be tricky, but that's like every other Grand Slam first round match.
"She definitely played well today and it was tough. There's nothing I could do. I hit a forehand cross court and she was standing there waiting to lob it over my head. So that wasn't the greatest play on earth.
"It was just a rough day for me. But sometimes it's just too good, and today was one of those days."
Stephens insisted that her record-breaking streak of reaching the fourth round of every grand slam since her semi-final appearance at last year's Australian Open had not brought extra pressure on her.
"No, not really," she added. "It was a great accomplishment, a great thing.
"I mean, hopefully it will be the last time I lose the first round of a slam, but hopefully I don't have to live through that again. Maybe in the next slam I'll make the second week again."
Stosur has yet to make the fourth round at Wimbledon in her career and her poor run continued on Monday as she never recovered from losing her first service game to Wickmayer, who was watched by Kim Clijsters, who has been working with the fellow Belgian.
Stosur, who recently split from her coach Miles Maclagan after seven months, has now lost six times in the first round of her 12 Wimbledon appearances.
She admitted she was baffled by her lack of form here.
"Yeah, [I'm] pretty annoyed about it, to be honest," said Stosur. "I don't have an answer because, like I said, I do feel I played well; I think she played well and she stuck to it right from first point to last point.
"She did well to carry that through, and nearly without a blip. That's that.
"I still think I'm a good enough player to get through first rounds here, and for whatever reasons it's not happening."
Despite the defeat Stosur said she would not be rushed into appointing a new coach.
"I think I still know what I want out of them," she added. "I don't think that's changing too much. But I think it's a hard thing. You know, there's probably a handful of coaches that you might want to think about. They've probably all got jobs.
"It's one of those things. It's not an easy thing to find that right and that you think is going to be that perfect match."
