The fatal flaws Brazil must address, despite Neymar's brilliance | The Rio Report - Yahoo Eurosport UK
After an early scare against Croatia and a deeply unconvincing and perhaps worrying performance against Mexico, Brazil have avoided the unthinkable and qualified for the second round of their World Cup as group winners thanks to a 4-1 win over Cameroon.
Neymar produced a masterclass that belied the pressure the most high-profile Brazilian at a home World Cup must be under, sashaying around some admittedly static Cameroon defenders with an insouciance and freedom that very much fits with the general theme of this World Cup.
[JACK LANG: NEYMAR IS THE GARRINCHA FOR A NEW GENERATION]
Indeed, an entire country will be praying that the injury the No.10 appeared to suffer in the second half, which saw him withdrawn before the end of the game, is not serious and his substitution was merely a note of caution from Luis Felipe Scolari.
One shudders to think where Brazil would be without Neymar. The Barcelona man has been largely disappointing for his club side since joining from Santos last summer, a transfer that as we know proved more costly than simply the transfer fee. However, under the pressure of essentially carrying the most storied international football team of all time on his back, Neymar is standing firm and stepping up in a massive way.
The problem is that, while Brazil aren't quite a one-man team at the moment, Neymar is their only attacker who looks close to belonging in a World Cup-winning team.
['I'M LIVING A DREAM': NEYMAR TAKES PLACE AMONG THE GREATS]
Fred has reached almost comical levels of ineptitude now. The man is clearly not a bad footballer, but one who is out of his depth at international level, never mind as the starting centre-forward for Brazil. Watching him trying to bundle the ball over the line in the first half was a little like watching someone caught in a duvet cover, scrabbling around in an increasingly desperate attempt to escape, only succeeding in making his plight even funnier for those watching.
The faith placed in him by Luis Felipe Scolari is admirable in many ways, but it is misplaced, and a goal that basically hit him and ricocheted into an empty net shouldn't alter the fact that Fred has no place in a team with aspirations to win the tournament.
The problem is that Scolari doesn't have any particularly appealing alternatives to the Fluminense man. The only other specialist centre-forward in his squad is Jo, who Manchester City fans will be chillingly familiar with and who 'boasts' a career scoring record of under one in three. The only other realistic options are moving Hulk, a man with his own form 'issues', into the centre, or a change in system to make Neymar a 'false nine', which isn't especially appealing given Brazil's golden boy is doing quite nicely in his current role.
[CLINICAL BRAZIL THRASH CAMEROON TO TOP GROUP]
There were more signs in Brazil's win over Cameroon that, despite their victories so far, they will come unstuck when they face a half-decent team, and that is exactly what they will do in the next round. Chile have been hugely impressive in the tournament so far, and despite losing to the Netherlands earlier on Monday, they have plenty of players who can hurt a fragile Brazilian backline.
Julio Cesar has hardly played in the last year or so, Dani Alves isn't the player he was, Marcelo has always been a little, shall we say, 'up and down', while David Luiz doesn't exactly inspire confidence and solidity either. At times it seems Thiago Silva is holding things together on his own, something that is a recipe for disaster with Alexis Sanchez in his current buzzing form.
The good news for Brazil is that at least Scolari seems to have seen sense over Paulinho. The Spurs midfielder's form for the national side has differed from that at White Hart Lane, but his anonymous showings in this World Cup so far surely mean he will be dropped for the next game.
Scolari introduced Fernandinho in the second half, and there was almost instantly a change in the Brazil midfield, with more energy from the Manchester City man, energy that manifested itself in a goal, scored via the sort of toe punt Romario would have been proud of.
Brazil are safely through to the second round, but unless their performances improve markedly, they may find themselves embarrassed and out of their own World Cup way ahead of schedule.


From Ground Zero: Last 16 - Brazil to meet Chile, Holland awaits Mexico
Last Updated: Tuesday, June 24, 2014, 11:19
Zee Media Bureau/ Shobhan Saxena from Brasilia	In its 100th game in the World Cup, the Brazilian team beat Cameroon 4-1 on Monday at the Mane Garrincha stadium in Brasilia, in the third and last round of Group A games of the World Cup. Neymar scored two goals, taking his tally to four. Now he is the leading goal scorer of the tournament, ahead of Muller (Germany), Enner Valencia (Ecuador), Benzema (France) and Robben and Van Persie (Netherlands), who all have three goals each.
The Barcelona striker also became the sixth highest goal-scorer for the Brazilian team with 35 goals. The second goal was scored by Fred, who had not scored in the competition so far. The fourth game was scored by Fernandinho, who replaced Paulinho in half time.
With the victory over Cameroon, Brazil ended the first phase in the lead with seven points, the same score as Mexico which beat Croatia 3-1 in Recife. However, the Mexicans were in second place for having worse balance of goals (3-5). Thus, the Brazilian team will face Chile in the next phase, which secured the second place in Group B. The game is scheduled for Saturday at the Mineirao in Belo Horizonte.
Though Chileans are playing quite well in this tournament, Brazil has history on their side. In three games in World Cups so far, Brazil won 4-2 in 1962, 4-1 in 1998 and 3-0 in 2010, all of them in the knock-out stage.
In Monday's game, Neymar proved why he is such a brilliant player. He opened the score for Brazil and in the 34th minute, the striker received a pass from Marcelo, charged, kicked and cut Nkoulou almost in the middle of the goal. In the second half, Fred sent a curling cross from David Luiz into the goal and Fernandinho poked a ball past the Cameroon keeper.
The Brazilian side is getting better by the game and it's peaking at the right time.
In the other game of the same group, Mexico needed only a draw to qualify, but they tried not to disappoint the thousands of fans who had packed the Pernambuco Arena qualified for the pre-quarter-final with a score 3-1. The goals were all in the second half. Croatia, defeated and disqualified, could score a goal to save their honour.
The fans in the Pernambuco Arena watched two games at the same time - one on the field and the other on TV screens. Every goal that Brazil scored in Brasilia, the yellow dots amid the green sea drew attention with shouts of celebration.
Croatia started the game with more possession, creating dangerous moves, especially at intersections. But they failed to breach the Mexican defense, and the game ended 3-1 in Mexico's favour.
Earlier in the day, in a superb game, substitute players Leroy Fer and Memphis Depay sank Chile with two late goals to top Group B and avoided the clash with Brazil in next round. The Netherlands and Chile were level on points before the game in Sao Paulo but top place was crucial to avoid Brazil in the last 16. "We did everything possible but the Netherlands imposed their play on our attackers through their defense. We need to polish a few things," said Chile coach Jorge Sampaoli.
Both started cautiously in bright sun at a packed and noisy Arena Corinthians in Sao Paulo. With Robin van Persie suspended, Dynamo Kiev`s Jeremain Lens made his World Cup debut up front for the Dutch and Fenerbahce veteran Dirk Kuyt was deployed on the left of midfield.
Chile`s Arturo Vidal Juventus was benched, who was one booking away from suspension, but took a chance on fit-again midfielder Charles Aranguiz, who was also on the yellow card. A slip by Barcelona`s Alexis Sanchez let Chile`s first dangerous moment go begging when Aranguiz`s dummy surprised him on the edge of the box. The Netherlands` best moment came early when Wesley Sneijder had a long-distance free-kick parried by Claudio Bravo at his near post.
But Bravo, who defended very well in the first half, let in two goals. Now, Chile will play Brazil in the pre-quarter final game.
In another match, a dismal game with no importance, Spain beat Australia by 3-0 at the Arena da Baixada in Curitiba. David Villa opened the score after 35 minutes. The second goal was scored by Fernando Torres in the 23rd minutes of the second stage. Juan Mata made it three in the 36th minute.
The clash marked the end of an era of Spain, with the sacking of players like Villa and Xavi. Winner of the 2010 World Cup and Euro 2008 and 2012, the Spanish team arrived in Brazil as one of the favorites to win. But they leave after the first round.
In three games, the team of Vicente del Bosque conceded seven goals. It was the fifth time that a current champion was eliminated in the group stage of a World Cup, the third in the last four editions. Prior to Spain, the situation had occurred with Italy (1950 and 2010), Brazil (1966) and France (2002).
