The fatal flaws Brazil must address, despite Neymar's brilliance | The Rio Report - Yahoo Eurosport UK
After an early scare against Croatia and a deeply unconvincing and perhaps worrying performance against Mexico, Brazil have avoided the unthinkable and qualified for the second round of their World Cup as group winners thanks to a 4-1 win over Cameroon.
Neymar produced a masterclass that belied the pressure the most high-profile Brazilian at a home World Cup must be under, sashaying around some admittedly static Cameroon defenders with an insouciance and freedom that very much fits with the general theme of this World Cup.
[JACK LANG: NEYMAR IS THE GARRINCHA FOR A NEW GENERATION]
Indeed, an entire country will be praying that the injury the No.10 appeared to suffer in the second half, which saw him withdrawn before the end of the game, is not serious and his substitution was merely a note of caution from Luis Felipe Scolari.
One shudders to think where Brazil would be without Neymar. The Barcelona man has been largely disappointing for his club side since joining from Santos last summer, a transfer that as we know proved more costly than simply the transfer fee. However, under the pressure of essentially carrying the most storied international football team of all time on his back, Neymar is standing firm and stepping up in a massive way.
The problem is that, while Brazil aren't quite a one-man team at the moment, Neymar is their only attacker who looks close to belonging in a World Cup-winning team.
['I'M LIVING A DREAM': NEYMAR TAKES PLACE AMONG THE GREATS]
Fred has reached almost comical levels of ineptitude now. The man is clearly not a bad footballer, but one who is out of his depth at international level, never mind as the starting centre-forward for Brazil. Watching him trying to bundle the ball over the line in the first half was a little like watching someone caught in a duvet cover, scrabbling around in an increasingly desperate attempt to escape, only succeeding in making his plight even funnier for those watching.
The faith placed in him by Luis Felipe Scolari is admirable in many ways, but it is misplaced, and a goal that basically hit him and ricocheted into an empty net shouldn't alter the fact that Fred has no place in a team with aspirations to win the tournament.
The problem is that Scolari doesn't have any particularly appealing alternatives to the Fluminense man. The only other specialist centre-forward in his squad is Jo, who Manchester City fans will be chillingly familiar with and who 'boasts' a career scoring record of under one in three. The only other realistic options are moving Hulk, a man with his own form 'issues', into the centre, or a change in system to make Neymar a 'false nine', which isn't especially appealing given Brazil's golden boy is doing quite nicely in his current role.
[CLINICAL BRAZIL THRASH CAMEROON TO TOP GROUP]
There were more signs in Brazil's win over Cameroon that, despite their victories so far, they will come unstuck when they face a half-decent team, and that is exactly what they will do in the next round. Chile have been hugely impressive in the tournament so far, and despite losing to the Netherlands earlier on Monday, they have plenty of players who can hurt a fragile Brazilian backline.
Julio Cesar has hardly played in the last year or so, Dani Alves isn't the player he was, Marcelo has always been a little, shall we say, 'up and down', while David Luiz doesn't exactly inspire confidence and solidity either. At times it seems Thiago Silva is holding things together on his own, something that is a recipe for disaster with Alexis Sanchez in his current buzzing form.
The good news for Brazil is that at least Scolari seems to have seen sense over Paulinho. The Spurs midfielder's form for the national side has differed from that at White Hart Lane, but his anonymous showings in this World Cup so far surely mean he will be dropped for the next game.
Scolari introduced Fernandinho in the second half, and there was almost instantly a change in the Brazil midfield, with more energy from the Manchester City man, energy that manifested itself in a goal, scored via the sort of toe punt Romario would have been proud of.
Brazil are safely through to the second round, but unless their performances improve markedly, they may find themselves embarrassed and out of their own World Cup way ahead of schedule.


Football - Gung-ho Brazil please fans but offer rivals hope - Yahoo Eurosport UK
The Barcelona forward was centre stage as he revelled against the porous Cameroon backline to grab two goals in a 4-1 win on Monday that put the hosts through to a last-16 clash with Chile.
His back-heels, deft touches and crowd-pleasing antics in his 70 minute man-of-the-match display had a feverish home support at the Brasilian national stadium on their feet and in full voice.
They had come to see a victory delivered with style, having been denied that by a misfiring forward line and stout defensive effort from Mexico in the previous Group A goalless stalemate that had raised queries about their tournament favourite status.
Brazil coach Luiz Felipe Scolari sent out the same side that fought back to beat Croatia 3-1 in their opener with a gameplan of overwhelming the already eliminated Africans.
Centre backs Thiago Silva and David Luiz and holding midfielder Luiz Gustavo were the only ones protecting goalkeeper Julio Cesar for long periods as the other seven Brazilian players bombed forward in search for goals.
Even Luiz Gustavo abandoned his station in the 17th minute to pop up on the left wing and set up Neymar's opener but the entertaining gung-ho display had its flaws against a side who had only shown fight amongst themselves in two opening defeats.
Cameroon grew in confidence as they routinely found space around the Brazilian penalty area and had long threatened an equaliser before Joel Matip was left free in the six-yard box to score in the 26th minute.
The goal came after Allan Nyom had once again escaped the attentions of marauding full back Dani Alves, with Benjamin Moukandjo enjoying similar space in behind Marcelo down the left in the first half for the underdogs.
A more composed attacking lineup might have made more of the opportunities the Cameroon side created. Brazil, though, did not have to wonder about what-ifs.
In Neymar they have a confident forward delivering under the heavy weight of a nation's expectation and he was unwilling to pass up any gift the opposition served up.
POOR CLEARANCE
After a poor defensive clearance, Marcelo sent him through to put the hosts back in front with his fourth in three matches and the swagger and crowd noise returned before halftime.
Defender David Luiz, another who loves to burst forward, provided a cross from the left for Fred to head home a third goal at the start of the second half but still Brazil seemed intent on keeping the game alive.
Scolari had introduced Fernandinho for the again disappointing Paulinho at the interval and Dani Alves was more cautious in the second period but the chances flowed for the Africans as Brazilian passes were misplaced.
Fernandinho did impress and linked play well before the box-to-box midfielder found himself at the end of another attacking move in the Cameroon penalty area to complete the scoring in the closing stages.
The goal added gloss and sent the fans away happy but questions inevitably centred on the frail backline.
"We had a small problem in the first half when Oscar joined the attack, Oscar and Hulk should have been (dropping back to) look for the ball," Scolari said, adding the problems were fixed at halftime.
"I don't have one little drop of fear about the defence, they are spectacular, naturally they can be beaten like any defences."
