The fatal flaws Brazil must address, despite Neymar's brilliance | The Rio Report - Yahoo Eurosport UK
After an early scare against Croatia and a deeply unconvincing and perhaps worrying performance against Mexico, Brazil have avoided the unthinkable and qualified for the second round of their World Cup as group winners thanks to a 4-1 win over Cameroon.
Neymar produced a masterclass that belied the pressure the most high-profile Brazilian at a home World Cup must be under, sashaying around some admittedly static Cameroon defenders with an insouciance and freedom that very much fits with the general theme of this World Cup.
[JACK LANG: NEYMAR IS THE GARRINCHA FOR A NEW GENERATION]
Indeed, an entire country will be praying that the injury the No.10 appeared to suffer in the second half, which saw him withdrawn before the end of the game, is not serious and his substitution was merely a note of caution from Luis Felipe Scolari.
One shudders to think where Brazil would be without Neymar. The Barcelona man has been largely disappointing for his club side since joining from Santos last summer, a transfer that as we know proved more costly than simply the transfer fee. However, under the pressure of essentially carrying the most storied international football team of all time on his back, Neymar is standing firm and stepping up in a massive way.
The problem is that, while Brazil aren't quite a one-man team at the moment, Neymar is their only attacker who looks close to belonging in a World Cup-winning team.
['I'M LIVING A DREAM': NEYMAR TAKES PLACE AMONG THE GREATS]
Fred has reached almost comical levels of ineptitude now. The man is clearly not a bad footballer, but one who is out of his depth at international level, never mind as the starting centre-forward for Brazil. Watching him trying to bundle the ball over the line in the first half was a little like watching someone caught in a duvet cover, scrabbling around in an increasingly desperate attempt to escape, only succeeding in making his plight even funnier for those watching.
The faith placed in him by Luis Felipe Scolari is admirable in many ways, but it is misplaced, and a goal that basically hit him and ricocheted into an empty net shouldn't alter the fact that Fred has no place in a team with aspirations to win the tournament.
The problem is that Scolari doesn't have any particularly appealing alternatives to the Fluminense man. The only other specialist centre-forward in his squad is Jo, who Manchester City fans will be chillingly familiar with and who 'boasts' a career scoring record of under one in three. The only other realistic options are moving Hulk, a man with his own form 'issues', into the centre, or a change in system to make Neymar a 'false nine', which isn't especially appealing given Brazil's golden boy is doing quite nicely in his current role.
[CLINICAL BRAZIL THRASH CAMEROON TO TOP GROUP]
There were more signs in Brazil's win over Cameroon that, despite their victories so far, they will come unstuck when they face a half-decent team, and that is exactly what they will do in the next round. Chile have been hugely impressive in the tournament so far, and despite losing to the Netherlands earlier on Monday, they have plenty of players who can hurt a fragile Brazilian backline.
Julio Cesar has hardly played in the last year or so, Dani Alves isn't the player he was, Marcelo has always been a little, shall we say, 'up and down', while David Luiz doesn't exactly inspire confidence and solidity either. At times it seems Thiago Silva is holding things together on his own, something that is a recipe for disaster with Alexis Sanchez in his current buzzing form.
The good news for Brazil is that at least Scolari seems to have seen sense over Paulinho. The Spurs midfielder's form for the national side has differed from that at White Hart Lane, but his anonymous showings in this World Cup so far surely mean he will be dropped for the next game.
Scolari introduced Fernandinho in the second half, and there was almost instantly a change in the Brazil midfield, with more energy from the Manchester City man, energy that manifested itself in a goal, scored via the sort of toe punt Romario would have been proud of.
Brazil are safely through to the second round, but unless their performances improve markedly, they may find themselves embarrassed and out of their own World Cup way ahead of schedule.


World Cup 2014: Neymar shines as Brazil beat Cameroon 4-1 - Livemint
The sparkling performance, with Neymar wowing the crowd with his trademark flicks and feints, meant Brazil went some way to dispelling doubts about their title credentials following last week's drab goalless draw with Mexico. Photo: Reuters
Brasilia:	 Brazil forward
Neymar	 shot to the top of the World Cup scoring charts with a superb double in a convincing 4-1 win for the hosts over Cameroon on Monday that sent them through as Group A winners to face Chile in the last 16.
After grabbing a brace in Brazil's 3-1 win over Croatia in their opening game, Neymar was again the star of the show at an electric national stadium and with four goals leads a chasing pack on three including Germany's
Thomas Mueller	 and
Karim Benzema 	of France.
Neymar struck twice in the first half on either side of
Joel Matip	's effort for the already-eliminated Africans,
Fred	 nodded home at the start of the second and substitute
Fernandinho	 added a late fourth.
The sparkling performance, with poster-boy Neymar wowing the crowd with his trademark flicks and feints, meant Brazil went some way to dispelling doubts about their title credentials following last week's drab goalless draw with Mexico.
Their title rivals will have noted with interest, however, that Cameroon caused problems for the Brazilian defenders and with more accomplished forwards, such as injured captain
Samuel Eto'o	 who was on the bench, might have pulled off an upset.
"There were some highs and lows which is normal and sometimes we lost the ball in midfield which made us anxious," he added.
"Even though we had difficulties, we could have scored seven or eight and conceded a couple more goals.
"We have improved again and for the next game we should improve a little bit more."
Mexico finished level on seven points with Brazil thanks to their 3-1 victory over Croatia and went through in second place due to an inferior goal difference. They will play Group A winners the Netherlands, who beat Chile 2-0 on Monday.
Mexico took a 3-0 lead with late goals in Recife, rattling Brazilian nerves until Fernandinho, who was introduced at halftime, made it 4-1 and Croatia pulled one back.
Blistering start
The fired-up Brazilian players made a blistering start at the vast arena in the capital, where the stands had been transformed into a sea of yellow by expectant home fans.
Hulk, back in the side after recovering from a muscle strain, was causing early problems down the right but Cameroon gradually played their way into the game before Neymar struck his first of the night after 17 minutes.
Luiz Gustavo	 won the ball on the left and his low cross was perfectly weighted for the 22-year-old, in space in the centre of the penalty area, to deftly guide the ball into the corner.
It was the 100th goal of this World Cup finals on Brazil's 100th appearance in soccer's global showpiece.
Cameroon refused to capitulate and were level nine minutes later when
Allan Nyom	 squared for
Joel Matip	 to side-foot into an empty net and momentarily silence the home fans.
Shouts of "Brazil! Brazil!" then rang out and the hosts were back in front in the 35th minute when Neymar ran at the defence and clipped a low shot past a wrong-footed
Charles Itandje	 in the Cameroon goal.
Brazil made a similarly brisk start to the second period and
David Luiz	 popped up on the left wing in the 49th to chip the ball to the far post for Fred to head home.
Neymar came off to a rapturous reception and was replaced by
Willian	 in the 71st minute before Fernandinho clipped the ball into the corner after a well-worked move six minutes from time to complete an impressive win for the tournament favourites.
"The main thing today wasn't the result but the way the team played, getting back the spirit that we had in (last year's) Confederations Cup," Fernandinho said in a television interview.
"In the first two games of the World Cup we missed that a bit," added the midfielder.
Reasonably pleased
Cameroon, whose campaign has been wrecked by infighting and ill-discipline, depart having lost all three matches, conceding nine goals and scoring one.
Coach
Volker Finke	 said he had been reasonably pleased with the Indomitable Lions' performance in the first half but criticised his players for not maintaining their concentration.
"It's not the first time we haven't focused for the whole 90 minutes, we need to find the reason for this," Finke told a news conference.
"Three times we had control of the ball and we lost it and those goals were unnecessary," added the German.
"There were certain things that were quite positive but it wasn't enough for the World Cup. We need to look at reality and as we are it's not enough for this competition." Reuters
