The fatal flaws Brazil must address, despite Neymar's brilliance | The Rio Report - Yahoo Eurosport UK
After an early scare against Croatia and a deeply unconvincing and perhaps worrying performance against Mexico, Brazil have avoided the unthinkable and qualified for the second round of their World Cup as group winners thanks to a 4-1 win over Cameroon.
Neymar produced a masterclass that belied the pressure the most high-profile Brazilian at a home World Cup must be under, sashaying around some admittedly static Cameroon defenders with an insouciance and freedom that very much fits with the general theme of this World Cup.
[JACK LANG: NEYMAR IS THE GARRINCHA FOR A NEW GENERATION]
Indeed, an entire country will be praying that the injury the No.10 appeared to suffer in the second half, which saw him withdrawn before the end of the game, is not serious and his substitution was merely a note of caution from Luis Felipe Scolari.
One shudders to think where Brazil would be without Neymar. The Barcelona man has been largely disappointing for his club side since joining from Santos last summer, a transfer that as we know proved more costly than simply the transfer fee. However, under the pressure of essentially carrying the most storied international football team of all time on his back, Neymar is standing firm and stepping up in a massive way.
The problem is that, while Brazil aren't quite a one-man team at the moment, Neymar is their only attacker who looks close to belonging in a World Cup-winning team.
['I'M LIVING A DREAM': NEYMAR TAKES PLACE AMONG THE GREATS]
Fred has reached almost comical levels of ineptitude now. The man is clearly not a bad footballer, but one who is out of his depth at international level, never mind as the starting centre-forward for Brazil. Watching him trying to bundle the ball over the line in the first half was a little like watching someone caught in a duvet cover, scrabbling around in an increasingly desperate attempt to escape, only succeeding in making his plight even funnier for those watching.
The faith placed in him by Luis Felipe Scolari is admirable in many ways, but it is misplaced, and a goal that basically hit him and ricocheted into an empty net shouldn't alter the fact that Fred has no place in a team with aspirations to win the tournament.
The problem is that Scolari doesn't have any particularly appealing alternatives to the Fluminense man. The only other specialist centre-forward in his squad is Jo, who Manchester City fans will be chillingly familiar with and who 'boasts' a career scoring record of under one in three. The only other realistic options are moving Hulk, a man with his own form 'issues', into the centre, or a change in system to make Neymar a 'false nine', which isn't especially appealing given Brazil's golden boy is doing quite nicely in his current role.
[CLINICAL BRAZIL THRASH CAMEROON TO TOP GROUP]
There were more signs in Brazil's win over Cameroon that, despite their victories so far, they will come unstuck when they face a half-decent team, and that is exactly what they will do in the next round. Chile have been hugely impressive in the tournament so far, and despite losing to the Netherlands earlier on Monday, they have plenty of players who can hurt a fragile Brazilian backline.
Julio Cesar has hardly played in the last year or so, Dani Alves isn't the player he was, Marcelo has always been a little, shall we say, 'up and down', while David Luiz doesn't exactly inspire confidence and solidity either. At times it seems Thiago Silva is holding things together on his own, something that is a recipe for disaster with Alexis Sanchez in his current buzzing form.
The good news for Brazil is that at least Scolari seems to have seen sense over Paulinho. The Spurs midfielder's form for the national side has differed from that at White Hart Lane, but his anonymous showings in this World Cup so far surely mean he will be dropped for the next game.
Scolari introduced Fernandinho in the second half, and there was almost instantly a change in the Brazil midfield, with more energy from the Manchester City man, energy that manifested itself in a goal, scored via the sort of toe punt Romario would have been proud of.
Brazil are safely through to the second round, but unless their performances improve markedly, they may find themselves embarrassed and out of their own World Cup way ahead of schedule.


'I'm living a dream' - Neymar takes place among the greats - Football - Eurosport Asia
Brazil's latest hero Neymar played down the pressure on his shoulders after inspiring the hosts into the last 16 of the World Cup to face Chile.
WHAT HAPPENED
Neymar scored twice in a 4-1 win over Cameroon, with Fred and Fernandinho getting the others for Brazil as they set up a last-16 meeting with fellow South Americans Chile, who finished second in Group B.
But quite apart from his two goals, Neymar bewitched fans in Brasilia with a magical performance, pulling off tricks at will and generally lifting Brazil to previously unmatched heights in this World Cup.
[CLINICAL BRAZIL THRASH CAMEROON]
The 22-year-old, who now has 35 international goals in 52 appearances, said: "There is no pressure. I've always said there is no pressure when you are making a dream come true and doing something you have sought after since you were a kid. I'm now playing in matches that I always dreamed about.
"I just want to help my fellow players not only by scoring goals but doing whatever it takes on the pitch to help us win. We are on the right track and the whole team is getting better and getting close to our target."
OUR VIEW
When Neymar first emerged from the Santos youth ranks, football fans in Europe became accustomed to weekly YouTube updates of his outrageous exploits with a football; there he was dribbling around five players for fun, there he was scoring a golazo, or pulling off a never-before-seen trick. Such moments were few and far between in a more functional first season in Barcelona, so it was a genuine thrill to see the Brazil star rediscover his inner showboat with a performance of breathtaking audacity. This was Neymar as Brazil knows and loves him - the darling of a nation. He seems to cope easily with the enormous expectation on his shoulders and this could be his tournament.
Brazilian football fans reacts to Neymar scoring against Cameroon as they watch the match live on TV in flight above the Amazonian jungle on June 23, 2014 - Getty Images
BRAZIL BUZZ
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT
Neymar and Brazil take on Chile in the last 16 on June 28 at 5pm which represents a stern challenge for the Selecao. In the other side of the draw, Netherlands are playing Mexico, who stormed into the last 16 courtesy of a 3-1 win over Mexico in Recife.
[MEXICO DOWN CROATIA TO BOOK DATE WITH DUTCH]
BRAZIL BUZZ
JACK LANG IN BRAZIL
"Neymar is quite a player. He is, in many ways, the closest Brazil are likely to get to a true heir to Garrincha, full of intuition and cunning and street smarts. There is something fitting that he is bringing joy to the people in 2014."
[NEYMAR DESTINED FOR GREATNESS: JACK'S FULL REPORT]
BRAZIL BUZZ
WHAT SCOLARI SAID
"If I could choose I would have picked someone else [to face] as Chile are a good South American team, they have quality, they are organised, they have the will to succeed. I will look at things when all the adrenaline has left our bodies, sometimes when we look at the match again in the cold light of day we see it in a different way. I think Fernandinho coming in was critical and we created a number of good chances in attack. Nature doesn't make leaps, things evolve step by step and this is what we are doing."
WHAT THE CAMEROON COACH SAID
Volker Finke: "Over the last two or three years we have not been that good but we managed to qualify for the World Cup and now we are disappointed we have not won a match. It's terrible and we suffer this but we have gained experience and what we need to do is focus and concentrate for the next challenge. The first half wasn't so bad but it's true we need to focus for the whole 90 minutes. We need to find the reasons for this - three times we had control of the ball and then lost possession which led to goals. But Brazil deserved this victory, they created more chances."

