Vincenzo Nibali regains yellow jersey as Alberto Contador crashes out | Sport | The Guardian
Blood had been expected along the zigzagging paths towards La Planche des Belles Filles but not such an abrupt kill. Yet on another wild day at this year's Tour de France two moments of the highest drama tilted this year's race perhaps decisively towards the Italian Vincenzo Nibali.
The first came halfway through stage 10, high up Le Markstein, where the air was thinned of oxygen and thickened with fog. Even so, one could make out Alberto Contador - his right tibia broken after an early crash - patting his Saxo-Tinkoff team-mate Michael Rogers fondly on the back, before struggling off his bike and into his team car.
Two hours later Nibali - teeth clenched, yellow helmet jigging excitedly - surged past his rivals in a curt display of acceleration and authority to win the stage, 15 seconds clear of Thibault Pinot with Alejandro Valverde five seconds further back in third.
It was on La Planche des Belles Filles two years ago that Team Sky blasted the peloton apart, with Chris Froome winning the stage and Bradley Wiggins slipping into yellow. This time Nibali did it solo, powering past Joaquim Rodriguez with 1.2km to go, to regain the yellow jersey he had relinquished on Sunday.
If the Italian keeps his form it is hard to see him losing the Tour now. Certainly Sky's Richie Porte, who finished 25 seconds behind on the day to move into second on general classification, 2min 23sec behind, knows it will be hard to find a weakness that is yet to reveal itself. Porte said: "I felt good but it's not great to be towing everyone to the line. But when Vincenzo goes you have to respond. He's got enough time already. You don't really want him to get any more."
Inevitably thoughts returned to Contador - the latest high-profile victim of a race that has now lost Mark Cavendish, Froome and him in the opening 10 days. The Spaniard, favourite for this year's Tour after Froome abandoned with a broken wrist, had attempted to ride on after crashing on the descent of the day's second climb, the 1,163m Petit Ballon. But as the yellow jersey group drifted away, pain and reality bit hard.
There were rumours that Contador's bike frame had snapped, causing him to fall. It was also suggested that a bike had fallen off the team car and on to Contador. Both were denied by Saxo-Tinkoff. Once TV cameras had missed the crash, speculation was inevitably going to follow.
Later the Belgian rider Jurgen van den Broeck said that Contador had crashed trying to overtake the peloton on the descent of the Petit Ballon, when he hit a pothole in the road at 65kph and flew over his handlebars. Other riders said Contador hit a rock.
It took time for the medical team to reach him and for his right knee to be wrapped; time too for his bike to be fixed and cleats altered. When Contador finally got moving he had lost four minutes on the peloton. Progress was interrupted twice more: to talk to his Saxo-Tinkoff sporting directeur, Bijarne Riis, and then to speak to the medical wagon.
It was all to no avail. Contador kept going for another 20km but with 77km of the stage remaining he decided to abandon.
The tone for the day was set from the moment the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, lowered his flag and a group of desperados charged away from the peloton on the flat 20km out of Mulhouse. Many of those in the breakaway were French, keen to show their faces and sponsor's jerseys.
Among them was Tommy Voeckler, who even at 35 craves attention more than a precocious toddler. Also there was Tony Martin, in spite of Sunday's heroics where he had ridden 59km solo to win the stage into Mulhouse, trying to get his Omega Pharma-Quickstep team-mate Michal Kwiatkowski into yellow. But the man making the most striking impression was Purito Rodriguez. The Spaniard has expected very little from himself on this Tour, after injuring himself in a crash in the Giro in May, yet rode himself into the King of the Mountains jersey.
With 20km remaining energy suddenly drained from Martin's legs and it was enough for the German to haul his bike up the road. While Kwiatkowski and Rodriguez pressed on, the Lotto-Belisol group of Tony Gallopin chugged away in metronome, trying to keep possession of the maillot jaune. On Sunday night Gallopin received a congratulatory call from the French president Francois Hollande, while having a massage. Now there was suffering of a different kind.
It all came down to the day's final climb. La Planche des Belle Filles has a lyrical name derived from a grizzly legend: an apocryphal story in which local girls, fearing torture by the Swedish Army in the thirty years' war, killed themselves by jumping into a lake. Afterwards a soldier engraved an epitaph for the beautiful girls on a board. This time it was Rodriguez writing his own epitaph, first leaving Kwiatkowski behind and then leaving Rodriguez - and spectators - gasping.
Today the riders have their first rest day, although Nibali appears to have plenty in the tank. A few minutes before his devastating final strike he was happily chatting to his his team-mate Jakob Fuglsang. The evidence suggests that it is his to lose. Then again, given what has happened in the Tour so far, it would be foolish to be too forthright in predictions.

Tour takes wild turns in early going
Weather, cobbles, crashes conspire to eliminate favorites, open door for others
Jeff Pachoud/AFP/Getty Images	Vincenzo Nibali was a man apart in the mountains in Stage 10 and is in control of a wild Tour de France.
Everyone's Tour de France bracket has been busted.
The toll of the first 10 days was stark: 18 riders out, 180 still upright. Three broken legs. The most decorated sprinter in race history, Mark Cavendish, lying crumpled against the barricades on opening day. Defending champion Chris Froome and past winner Alberto Contador, forced to dismount and step gingerly into team cars, grimacing in the fog.
Jittery, fresh legs, lousy weather and the wild card thrown down in the form of a stage partially paved with cobblestones (or, in other years, a team time trial) all are known hazards for riders of stature. The curtain-raising stretch of the Tour often leaves a sizable dent in numbers and expectations, but this constitutes unusual wreckage even by historical standards.
Yet the racing has been sensational, and that isn't a coincidence. Grand tours can have an inevitable, forced-march quality to them. This one does not, despite the early dominance of Italy's Vincenzo Nibali.
Nibali not only handled but seemed to relish his time on the cobbles, and put his stamp on the race by riding to win Monday's uphill finish in the Vosges -- those pesky mountains before the mountains before the mountains -- that loomed as a trap as soon as the 2014 route was unveiled.
Nibali has surely made some of his own luck, but also benefited from the random whims of the bike universe. In a race in which several team leaders have lost key helpers, Nibali's Astana teammate Michele Scarponi lost traction Monday on a descent and spectacularly somersaulted over hay bales and into spectators, only to dust himself off and recover to pace Nibali in the late going.
Tracking the Tour de France
Follow along during all 21 stages of the 2014 Tour de France here, including results, news, stage profiles and images from race action. Launch >>>
The Italian nicknamed "the Shark" has won two other three-week tests, the Giro d'Italia (2013) and the Vuelta a Espana (2010) and finished third in the 2012 Tour. However, aspiring to keep the overall leader's yellow jersey from now until Paris pushes Nibali into a much hotter seat than the one he occupied entering the race, when he was a footnote behind Froome and Contador.
It will take personal growth on the road and continued good fortune for Nibali to prevail in the vacuum left by those absences. The same goes for the men who suddenly find themselves promoted, such as Richie Porte, who clipped into Froome's role for Team Sky and is now second overall.
Resilience will be the elusive watchword for the two young American hopefuls who saw their paths fork in the past few days.
BMC's Tejay van Garderen, who has hit the deck several times, lost the services of climber Darwin Atapuma in one of those crashes and struggled for a couple of days to keep his podium chances intact. Still, van Garderen managed to assert himself again with a strong ride Monday and stands seventh, roughly four minutes back of Nibali.
Garmin's Andrew Talansky couldn't bounce back from his multiple tumbles and dropped to almost 15 minutes behind. He'll have to shift his goal to a stage win and further seasoning in his second Tour.
The Alps -- where van Garderen rode to a memorable near-win on the double ascent of Alpe d'Huez last year -- loom next. The mountaintop finish at Chamrousse appears to be by far the most decisive of the three days there should the race revert to traditional form, but that seems like an alien notion at the moment.
There have been other relatively open Tour fields in recent years, but the last time two such heavy favorites went out of the same race this early -- Jan Ullrich and Ivan Basso in 2006 -- it was a doping imbroglio that booted them before the start rather than slippery roads en route to Paris.
Time for all the dark horses to show they can ride themselves into the spotlight, which they fervently hope will come from an unobscured sun.
The Alps and Pyrenees, dramatic as they are, pose familiar challenges. The mental endurance required to survive and prosper over the next two weeks is a new frontier for many.
Olympics
Bonnie D. Ford covers Olympic sports for ESPN.com.
