Vincenzo Nibali regains yellow jersey as Alberto Contador crashes out | Sport | The Guardian
Blood had been expected along the zigzagging paths towards La Planche des Belles Filles but not such an abrupt kill. Yet on another wild day at this year's Tour de France two moments of the highest drama tilted this year's race perhaps decisively towards the Italian Vincenzo Nibali.
The first came halfway through stage 10, high up Le Markstein, where the air was thinned of oxygen and thickened with fog. Even so, one could make out Alberto Contador - his right tibia broken after an early crash - patting his Saxo-Tinkoff team-mate Michael Rogers fondly on the back, before struggling off his bike and into his team car.
Two hours later Nibali - teeth clenched, yellow helmet jigging excitedly - surged past his rivals in a curt display of acceleration and authority to win the stage, 15 seconds clear of Thibault Pinot with Alejandro Valverde five seconds further back in third.
It was on La Planche des Belles Filles two years ago that Team Sky blasted the peloton apart, with Chris Froome winning the stage and Bradley Wiggins slipping into yellow. This time Nibali did it solo, powering past Joaquim Rodriguez with 1.2km to go, to regain the yellow jersey he had relinquished on Sunday.
If the Italian keeps his form it is hard to see him losing the Tour now. Certainly Sky's Richie Porte, who finished 25 seconds behind on the day to move into second on general classification, 2min 23sec behind, knows it will be hard to find a weakness that is yet to reveal itself. Porte said: "I felt good but it's not great to be towing everyone to the line. But when Vincenzo goes you have to respond. He's got enough time already. You don't really want him to get any more."
Inevitably thoughts returned to Contador - the latest high-profile victim of a race that has now lost Mark Cavendish, Froome and him in the opening 10 days. The Spaniard, favourite for this year's Tour after Froome abandoned with a broken wrist, had attempted to ride on after crashing on the descent of the day's second climb, the 1,163m Petit Ballon. But as the yellow jersey group drifted away, pain and reality bit hard.
There were rumours that Contador's bike frame had snapped, causing him to fall. It was also suggested that a bike had fallen off the team car and on to Contador. Both were denied by Saxo-Tinkoff. Once TV cameras had missed the crash, speculation was inevitably going to follow.
Later the Belgian rider Jurgen van den Broeck said that Contador had crashed trying to overtake the peloton on the descent of the Petit Ballon, when he hit a pothole in the road at 65kph and flew over his handlebars. Other riders said Contador hit a rock.
It took time for the medical team to reach him and for his right knee to be wrapped; time too for his bike to be fixed and cleats altered. When Contador finally got moving he had lost four minutes on the peloton. Progress was interrupted twice more: to talk to his Saxo-Tinkoff sporting directeur, Bijarne Riis, and then to speak to the medical wagon.
It was all to no avail. Contador kept going for another 20km but with 77km of the stage remaining he decided to abandon.
The tone for the day was set from the moment the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, lowered his flag and a group of desperados charged away from the peloton on the flat 20km out of Mulhouse. Many of those in the breakaway were French, keen to show their faces and sponsor's jerseys.
Among them was Tommy Voeckler, who even at 35 craves attention more than a precocious toddler. Also there was Tony Martin, in spite of Sunday's heroics where he had ridden 59km solo to win the stage into Mulhouse, trying to get his Omega Pharma-Quickstep team-mate Michal Kwiatkowski into yellow. But the man making the most striking impression was Purito Rodriguez. The Spaniard has expected very little from himself on this Tour, after injuring himself in a crash in the Giro in May, yet rode himself into the King of the Mountains jersey.
With 20km remaining energy suddenly drained from Martin's legs and it was enough for the German to haul his bike up the road. While Kwiatkowski and Rodriguez pressed on, the Lotto-Belisol group of Tony Gallopin chugged away in metronome, trying to keep possession of the maillot jaune. On Sunday night Gallopin received a congratulatory call from the French president Francois Hollande, while having a massage. Now there was suffering of a different kind.
It all came down to the day's final climb. La Planche des Belle Filles has a lyrical name derived from a grizzly legend: an apocryphal story in which local girls, fearing torture by the Swedish Army in the thirty years' war, killed themselves by jumping into a lake. Afterwards a soldier engraved an epitaph for the beautiful girls on a board. This time it was Rodriguez writing his own epitaph, first leaving Kwiatkowski behind and then leaving Rodriguez - and spectators - gasping.
Today the riders have their first rest day, although Nibali appears to have plenty in the tank. A few minutes before his devastating final strike he was happily chatting to his his team-mate Jakob Fuglsang. The evidence suggests that it is his to lose. Then again, given what has happened in the Tour so far, it would be foolish to be too forthright in predictions.

Tour de France 2014: Simon Yates suffers as he heads into the unknown | Sport | The Guardian
As the Tour de France heads south towards the Alps, its youngest survivor, the 21-year-old Briton Simon Yates, accepts that he is heading into the unknown. "I couldn't tell you what the stages look like from now on. This is as far as I've ever raced back to back and I'll just take it day by day from here. I could wake up tomorrow and be knackered."
Unlike many of the 180 riders left in the field Yates has not had a crash of note, merely a slight "face plant" on stage one and a few episodes when he has "landed on his feet". The strain of his first Tour is beginning to show, however, he acknowledges. "I've ended up getting a little sick the last two or three days - I've got a chesty cough, runny nose and such. The rest day has come at the perfect time."
The Tour has, he says, "been everything I expected. You can never be ready for your first Tour, especially because I was called up so late and wasn't expecting it, but I knew it would be hectic. Watching the Tour [when you are] growing up you know how nervous the first week is so I was ready for that. It wasn't really a surprise that I was so nervous."
Yates believes he is over the worst of his cold, which he puts down to "going deep on the day of the breakaway" - a reference to Saturday, when he spent the bulk of the stage at the head of affairs before being swept up on the final climb.
"It wasn't just the end but the start as well. The first hour was 52 kilometres per hour, there are 50 guys who want to be in the break as well, I was flat out for however long - as hard as I could go - and once the break has gone it was flat out to stay away from the peloton. Then in the finale there are five guys who want to win so you're all going flat out again."
The other Briton still in the Tour, Geraint Thomas, has survived a series of crashes - three in two days and even a bee sting - to go towards the Alps in 14th overall, but he does not believe the race is more dangerous this year than in the past. "Every year we're like: 'God, so many crashes.' But it's the same every year. I'm sure if we went back and had a look last year we'd see it was the same."
Thomas and his leader, Richie Porte - who has stepped into the role at Team Sky since Chris Froome abandoned on stage five with a broken wrist - believe that the race leader, Vincenzo Nibali, and his Astana team can prove vulnerable in the next 10 days.
"[Richie] can go all the way," said Thomas. "It's a great position we're in. It would have been quite easy to get down and disappointed after Froomey went but we've just been sticking together and enjoying it. Astana are strong but they're going to be getting tired. A lot more can happen. Look how much has happened in the first 10 days."
"Anyone is beatable," was the view of Porte, who lies second overall. "[Nibali] is in a great position and he has a great team that has controlled this race really well. We've seen that this Tour throws in surprises everywhere so it's not over until Paris. We have to attack him now. It's our race to take to him and I'm sure [Alejandro] Valverde and all these guys coming into the Pyrenees will." Froome, he said, has been offering him tactical advice.
Nibali concedes that, in spite of the absence of Froome and Alberto Contador, and his 2min 23sec lead over Porte, the race remains open. "You shouldn't underestimate anyone. Any day can produce a surprise."
Wednesday's 187.5km run southwards through the Jura could be one of those days. It looks like a stage for the sprinters who can also climb - a list headed by Peter Sagan, for whom a stage win is several days overdue. With four climbs listed in the final 50km, topping out at 998m, the most likely scenario will be for the Slovak sprinter's team, Cannondale, to set a searing pace late in the stage to burn off the heavier speedsters such as Marcel Kittel.
However, there is enough climbing elsewhere in the stage to make this suitable for a more serious attempt to destabilise Nibali, along the lines of Sunday's mass attack led by the French team Europcar. It has more than a hint of what the French call une etape piege, which can be roughly translated as "a pitfall", although almost every stage of the Tour so far seems to have contained a trap of some kind.
