Vincenzo Nibali regains yellow jersey as Alberto Contador crashes out | Sport | The Guardian
Blood had been expected along the zigzagging paths towards La Planche des Belles Filles but not such an abrupt kill. Yet on another wild day at this year's Tour de France two moments of the highest drama tilted this year's race perhaps decisively towards the Italian Vincenzo Nibali.
The first came halfway through stage 10, high up Le Markstein, where the air was thinned of oxygen and thickened with fog. Even so, one could make out Alberto Contador - his right tibia broken after an early crash - patting his Saxo-Tinkoff team-mate Michael Rogers fondly on the back, before struggling off his bike and into his team car.
Two hours later Nibali - teeth clenched, yellow helmet jigging excitedly - surged past his rivals in a curt display of acceleration and authority to win the stage, 15 seconds clear of Thibault Pinot with Alejandro Valverde five seconds further back in third.
It was on La Planche des Belles Filles two years ago that Team Sky blasted the peloton apart, with Chris Froome winning the stage and Bradley Wiggins slipping into yellow. This time Nibali did it solo, powering past Joaquim Rodriguez with 1.2km to go, to regain the yellow jersey he had relinquished on Sunday.
If the Italian keeps his form it is hard to see him losing the Tour now. Certainly Sky's Richie Porte, who finished 25 seconds behind on the day to move into second on general classification, 2min 23sec behind, knows it will be hard to find a weakness that is yet to reveal itself. Porte said: "I felt good but it's not great to be towing everyone to the line. But when Vincenzo goes you have to respond. He's got enough time already. You don't really want him to get any more."
Inevitably thoughts returned to Contador - the latest high-profile victim of a race that has now lost Mark Cavendish, Froome and him in the opening 10 days. The Spaniard, favourite for this year's Tour after Froome abandoned with a broken wrist, had attempted to ride on after crashing on the descent of the day's second climb, the 1,163m Petit Ballon. But as the yellow jersey group drifted away, pain and reality bit hard.
There were rumours that Contador's bike frame had snapped, causing him to fall. It was also suggested that a bike had fallen off the team car and on to Contador. Both were denied by Saxo-Tinkoff. Once TV cameras had missed the crash, speculation was inevitably going to follow.
Later the Belgian rider Jurgen van den Broeck said that Contador had crashed trying to overtake the peloton on the descent of the Petit Ballon, when he hit a pothole in the road at 65kph and flew over his handlebars. Other riders said Contador hit a rock.
It took time for the medical team to reach him and for his right knee to be wrapped; time too for his bike to be fixed and cleats altered. When Contador finally got moving he had lost four minutes on the peloton. Progress was interrupted twice more: to talk to his Saxo-Tinkoff sporting directeur, Bijarne Riis, and then to speak to the medical wagon.
It was all to no avail. Contador kept going for another 20km but with 77km of the stage remaining he decided to abandon.
The tone for the day was set from the moment the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, lowered his flag and a group of desperados charged away from the peloton on the flat 20km out of Mulhouse. Many of those in the breakaway were French, keen to show their faces and sponsor's jerseys.
Among them was Tommy Voeckler, who even at 35 craves attention more than a precocious toddler. Also there was Tony Martin, in spite of Sunday's heroics where he had ridden 59km solo to win the stage into Mulhouse, trying to get his Omega Pharma-Quickstep team-mate Michal Kwiatkowski into yellow. But the man making the most striking impression was Purito Rodriguez. The Spaniard has expected very little from himself on this Tour, after injuring himself in a crash in the Giro in May, yet rode himself into the King of the Mountains jersey.
With 20km remaining energy suddenly drained from Martin's legs and it was enough for the German to haul his bike up the road. While Kwiatkowski and Rodriguez pressed on, the Lotto-Belisol group of Tony Gallopin chugged away in metronome, trying to keep possession of the maillot jaune. On Sunday night Gallopin received a congratulatory call from the French president Francois Hollande, while having a massage. Now there was suffering of a different kind.
It all came down to the day's final climb. La Planche des Belle Filles has a lyrical name derived from a grizzly legend: an apocryphal story in which local girls, fearing torture by the Swedish Army in the thirty years' war, killed themselves by jumping into a lake. Afterwards a soldier engraved an epitaph for the beautiful girls on a board. This time it was Rodriguez writing his own epitaph, first leaving Kwiatkowski behind and then leaving Rodriguez - and spectators - gasping.
Today the riders have their first rest day, although Nibali appears to have plenty in the tank. A few minutes before his devastating final strike he was happily chatting to his his team-mate Jakob Fuglsang. The evidence suggests that it is his to lose. Then again, given what has happened in the Tour so far, it would be foolish to be too forthright in predictions.

Contador ready to go on the offensive
Monday, 14 July 2014 18:10
Posted by Imaduddin
MULHOUSE: Alberto Contador vowed to go on the attack on Monday as Frenchman Tony Gallopin looks to defend the Tour de France yellow jersey on Bastille Day.
Two-time winner Contador has 2min 34sec to make up on Vincenzo Nibali after suffering badly on Wednesday's cobbled stage.
Nibali was in yellow until Sunday when his Astana team allowed a breakaway group enough of a gap to let the race lead pass to Gallopin.
But the 26-year-old Frenchman will have his work cut out keeping the jersey on the first tough mountain stage of the race.
Someone who will be relishing the 161.5km run from Mulhouse to La Planche des Belles Filles is Contador and, legs permitting, he's planning fireworks.
"I need to see how things turn out and whether or not I need to adopt a strategy of conservation or one of attack," said the Spanish Tinkoff-Saxo team leader.
"If my legs feel good, I'll go on the attack. It depends how well I recover and how I feel.
"Once it's clear how strong everyone is, that's when you see what happens.
"It feels like we've already covered a lot of ground but we cannot switch off and let opportunities go.
"Nibali and the others in front of me in the standings are great riders and day by day I need to climb back up."
Contador slipped to ninth in the standings after three of Sunday's breakaway group jumped into the top 10 thanks to the five minutes they gained on those above them.
Nibali held the yellow jersey for a week but said his team's forces were spent defending it and they couldn't chase any longer.
"(Sunday) the team worked hard all day. Gallopin took the yellow jersey and there's no need to lose one's head," said the Italian.
"We managed to get through the day pretty well. Of the overall contenders (Pierre) Rolland closed in a bit.
"We knew it would be a day for an escape but no-one helped us."
He added: "Everyone worked hard, even the 'passisti' (those less suited to the mountains), and they're spent."
The final 5.9km first category ascent to Monday's finish will ensure there's a serious shake up in the overall standings, according to Geraint Thomas.
The Welshman will be working for new Sky team leader Richie Porte -- who replaced Chris Froome when he crashed out of the Tour on Wednesday.
"It's up and down all day and I think the GC will really get sorted out. There will be a lot of tired bodies and some big attacks on the last climb," he said.
Porte dropped to fifth Sunday as Gallopin and Portuguese Tiago Machado moved into the top three.
But he is likely to find himself in the top three by the end of Monday's stage.
At least he's one of those Contador is wary of.
"Right now Nibali, (Aljeandro) Valverde and Porte are showing good form. The ideal would be to put time into them," he said.
As well as the brutal finish, there are seven categorised climbs, including four first category ones on what should be a tough day in the saddle.
Gallopin knows he needs an incredible performance to maintain his 1:34 lead over Nibali, but he's hoping the yellow jersey effect, not to mention that of donning the famous shirt on his country's national day, will inspire him.
"It's incredible. It will be a very proud moment to wear the yellow jersey on the national day. I would never have imagined it," he said.
"I think I'll really enjoy it (Monday). It won't be an easy day, the guys (going for overall victory) will try to do battle.
"I have just 1:30 to Nibali. I will do my best."
