Vincenzo Nibali regains yellow jersey as Alberto Contador crashes out | Sport | The Guardian
Blood had been expected along the zigzagging paths towards La Planche des Belles Filles but not such an abrupt kill. Yet on another wild day at this year's Tour de France two moments of the highest drama tilted this year's race perhaps decisively towards the Italian Vincenzo Nibali.
The first came halfway through stage 10, high up Le Markstein, where the air was thinned of oxygen and thickened with fog. Even so, one could make out Alberto Contador - his right tibia broken after an early crash - patting his Saxo-Tinkoff team-mate Michael Rogers fondly on the back, before struggling off his bike and into his team car.
Two hours later Nibali - teeth clenched, yellow helmet jigging excitedly - surged past his rivals in a curt display of acceleration and authority to win the stage, 15 seconds clear of Thibault Pinot with Alejandro Valverde five seconds further back in third.
It was on La Planche des Belles Filles two years ago that Team Sky blasted the peloton apart, with Chris Froome winning the stage and Bradley Wiggins slipping into yellow. This time Nibali did it solo, powering past Joaquim Rodriguez with 1.2km to go, to regain the yellow jersey he had relinquished on Sunday.
If the Italian keeps his form it is hard to see him losing the Tour now. Certainly Sky's Richie Porte, who finished 25 seconds behind on the day to move into second on general classification, 2min 23sec behind, knows it will be hard to find a weakness that is yet to reveal itself. Porte said: "I felt good but it's not great to be towing everyone to the line. But when Vincenzo goes you have to respond. He's got enough time already. You don't really want him to get any more."
Inevitably thoughts returned to Contador - the latest high-profile victim of a race that has now lost Mark Cavendish, Froome and him in the opening 10 days. The Spaniard, favourite for this year's Tour after Froome abandoned with a broken wrist, had attempted to ride on after crashing on the descent of the day's second climb, the 1,163m Petit Ballon. But as the yellow jersey group drifted away, pain and reality bit hard.
There were rumours that Contador's bike frame had snapped, causing him to fall. It was also suggested that a bike had fallen off the team car and on to Contador. Both were denied by Saxo-Tinkoff. Once TV cameras had missed the crash, speculation was inevitably going to follow.
Later the Belgian rider Jurgen van den Broeck said that Contador had crashed trying to overtake the peloton on the descent of the Petit Ballon, when he hit a pothole in the road at 65kph and flew over his handlebars. Other riders said Contador hit a rock.
It took time for the medical team to reach him and for his right knee to be wrapped; time too for his bike to be fixed and cleats altered. When Contador finally got moving he had lost four minutes on the peloton. Progress was interrupted twice more: to talk to his Saxo-Tinkoff sporting directeur, Bijarne Riis, and then to speak to the medical wagon.
It was all to no avail. Contador kept going for another 20km but with 77km of the stage remaining he decided to abandon.
The tone for the day was set from the moment the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, lowered his flag and a group of desperados charged away from the peloton on the flat 20km out of Mulhouse. Many of those in the breakaway were French, keen to show their faces and sponsor's jerseys.
Among them was Tommy Voeckler, who even at 35 craves attention more than a precocious toddler. Also there was Tony Martin, in spite of Sunday's heroics where he had ridden 59km solo to win the stage into Mulhouse, trying to get his Omega Pharma-Quickstep team-mate Michal Kwiatkowski into yellow. But the man making the most striking impression was Purito Rodriguez. The Spaniard has expected very little from himself on this Tour, after injuring himself in a crash in the Giro in May, yet rode himself into the King of the Mountains jersey.
With 20km remaining energy suddenly drained from Martin's legs and it was enough for the German to haul his bike up the road. While Kwiatkowski and Rodriguez pressed on, the Lotto-Belisol group of Tony Gallopin chugged away in metronome, trying to keep possession of the maillot jaune. On Sunday night Gallopin received a congratulatory call from the French president Francois Hollande, while having a massage. Now there was suffering of a different kind.
It all came down to the day's final climb. La Planche des Belle Filles has a lyrical name derived from a grizzly legend: an apocryphal story in which local girls, fearing torture by the Swedish Army in the thirty years' war, killed themselves by jumping into a lake. Afterwards a soldier engraved an epitaph for the beautiful girls on a board. This time it was Rodriguez writing his own epitaph, first leaving Kwiatkowski behind and then leaving Rodriguez - and spectators - gasping.
Today the riders have their first rest day, although Nibali appears to have plenty in the tank. A few minutes before his devastating final strike he was happily chatting to his his team-mate Jakob Fuglsang. The evidence suggests that it is his to lose. Then again, given what has happened in the Tour so far, it would be foolish to be too forthright in predictions.

Nibali takes control of yellow jersey on Bastille Day as Contador crashes out - Independent.ie
Published 14/07/2014|17:32
Italy's Vincenzo Nibali crosses the finish line to win the tenth stage of the Tour de France today
There were Bastille Day fireworks on stage 10 of the Tour de France on Monday as Alberto Contador abandoned following a crash and Vincenzo Nibali reclaimed the yellow jersey with a tremendous victory at La Planche des Belles Filles.
Contador crashed on the 161.5-kilometre 10th stage from Mulhouse and, after struggling on for 20km in an effort to play catch-up, gave up and withdrew to his Tinkoff-Saxo team car.
The Spaniard's departure deprives the race of another previous winner after 2013 champion Chris Froome (Team Sky) withdrew with fractures to his left wrist and right hand on stage five last Wednesday.
Andy Schleck (Trek Factory Racing), who inherited the 2010 title from Contador following an anti-doping infringement, quit the race with a knee injury last Tuesday, although the Luxembourg rider is a shadow of his former self.
None of the remaining riders have won the event, but Nibali took a significant step in his bid to succeed Froome in Paris on July 27.
The action was expected to ignite on the concluding climb ahead of Tuesday's rest day and Nibali, who relinquished the lead on stage nine to Frenchman Tony Gallopin (Lotto-Belisol), surged to a second Tour stage win to take control of the race.
Gallopin struggled, losing the maillot jaune after a one-day stint.
Stage 11 takes place on Wednesday as the race heads for the Alps with the 187.5km route from Besancon to Oyonnax.
Thibaut Pinot (FDJ) was 15 seconds behind Nibali in second on the stage, and Alejandro Valverde (Movistar) third.
Gallopin, who began the day one minute 34 seconds ahead of Nibali, trailed in 33rd, 4mins 46secs behind.
Nibali holds a lead of 2:23 from second-placed Richie Porte (Team Sky), who was 25 seconds behind in seventh on the day.
Valverde is third, 2:47 behind and Gallopin fifth, 3:12 adrift.
The day saw the Tour lose another leading protagonist after Mark Cavendish's crash on day one and the exits of Froome and Schleck.
Contador crashed on the descent of the Petit Ballon as he approached the third of six categorised climbs, the Col du Platzerwasel, on a damp day in the Vosges Mountains.
He received strapping to his right knee, swapped bikes and lost four minutes as a result of the delay, falling nine minutes behind the day's breakaway, which held a five-minute lead on the peloton.
Nibali's Astana team led the main bunch and did not increase the pace on the 7.1km, category one ascent as Contador's team-mates dropped back to help him.
Contador, winner of the 2007 and 2009 Tours, began the day in ninth place, 4:08 behind Gallopin.
But the Spaniard struggled to reduce the arrears and quit with more than 80km of the stage remaining.
The finish at La Planche des Belles Filles was a reminder to Britons of the absent Froome and Sir Bradley Wiggins.
Froome won at the summit of the 'climb of the beautiful girls' in 2012 as Wiggins took the yellow jersey he held until Paris, when he became the first British winner of the race. Nibali finished third two years ago.
Contador's withdrawal could see him refocus on the Vuelta a Espana, which begins in Jerez on August 23. Both Froome and Wiggins could also ride the Tour of Spain.
Contador expressed disappointment when Froome abandoned and the Kenya-born Briton did likewise on Monday, while hinting at his own possible participation in the Vuelta.
Froome wrote on Twitter: "Big loss for the TDF today. Recover well @albertocontador & I hope to see you at the Vuelta."
At the front of the race the breakaway riders were hunting King of the Mountain points, while Sunday's stage winner Tony Martin attempted to lead his Omega Pharma-QuickStep team-mate Michal Kwiatkowski into the yellow jersey.
The Polish rider was the highest-placed of the escapees at the start of the day but was left alone on the ascent of the penultimate climb of the day, the Col des Chevreres, when Martin fell away with 20km to go.
Joaquim Rodriguez (Katusha) followed Kwiatkowski as more than two minutes behind them Gallopin was toiling behind Nibali and company.
Kwiatkowski was in front on the descent ahead of the day's concluding climb, but Rodriguez attacked on his own with 5km to go.
Nibali, in the Italian champion's jersey for the first time since taking the maillot jaune in Sheffield on stage two, attacked with 3km to go, leaving Valverde and Richie Porte (Team Sky) and others in his wake before surging past Kwiatkowski.
Only Rodriguez was up ahead of the Astana leader as Porte led the counter-attack.
Nibali, the 2012 Tour runner-up and 2013 Giro d'Italia champion, could see a slowing Rodriguez up ahead of him.
The pair were together with 1.2km to go, but Rodriguez faded and Nibali went ahead alone to claim a supreme victory.
