MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament | The Salt Lake Tribune
MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament
Cleveland * Allowing nine runs in the last two innings wasn't the worst thing that happened to the New York Yankees on Thursday.
New York's 9-3 loss to the Cleveland Indians was overshadowed by the news that rookie sensation Masahiro Tanaka has a partially torn ligament in his right elbow.
General manager Brian Cashman said in a conference call during the game that Tanaka could return in six weeks, but didn't rule out the possibility of Tommy John surgery if the right-hander doesn't respond to a rehab program.
"Certainly disappointed for our player, for our organization," Cashman said. "He's been an important piece. We have a tremendously gifted and tough player. We'll see how he responds."
"It is what it is," manager Joe Girardi said. "We're not going to have him for at least six weeks and that's the tough part, but I'm optimistic that we'll have him back."
Tanaka was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday and had an MRI in New York, one day after his worst major league outing. He flew to Seattle on Thursday.
Cashman said Tanaka saw three doctors, including Yankees head physician Dr. Christopher Ahmad, and all three agreed that a six-week rehab program was the best option at this time.
"If we knew today that the best course of action was Tommy John surgery, despite the name and the amount of the investment, we would be doing Tommy John surgery," Cashman said.
Girardi, looking for any positive sign, said, "Guys have had success doing this and we'll keep our fingers crossed. That gives you reason for optimism that he's going to pitch again for us this year."
Tanaka, who is tied for the major league lead with 12 wins, allowed five runs and 10 hits Tuesday night in a 5-3 loss to the Indians. The All-Star is 12-4 with a 2.51 ERA in 18 starts, but has lost three of his past four outings.
story continues below
The injury is a huge blow to a battered Yankees rotation already was missing CC Sabathia, Ivan Nova and Michael Pineda to injuries. Tanaka had been a stabilizing ace in his first season since arriving from Japan.
"We've lost 80 percent of it," Girardi said. "There's really not a whole lot that you can go back and redo. You just gotta go out and find a way."
Copyright 2014 The Salt Lake Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

New York Yankees - PlayerWatch | Reuters
Thu Jul 10, 2014 1:01pm EDT
OF Zoilo Almonte was recalled from Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre to take the roster spot of RHP Masahiro Tanaka, who was placed on the disabled list with inflammation in his elbow. Almonte was hitting .279 with 13 home runs and 47 RBIs at Scranton/Wilkes-Barre. He went 1-for-6 with three strikeouts, dropping his major league average to .160 in 10 games this year.
RHP Masahiro Tanaka was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday with inflammation in his right elbow, a day after he gave up five runs on 10 hits in a 5-3 loss to Cleveland. Tanaka has returned to New York to have an MRI done on the elbow. "There's soreness and he must have felt that it was affecting him a little bit, so we felt it was best to send him back and have an MRI," manager Joe Girardi said.
OF Carlos Beltran was a late scratch from the Wednesday's starting lineup after breaking his nose when he was hit by a ball that ricocheted off a batting practice screen. "It's just a fracture in two different areas," Beltran said. "I feel good, my head feels good. I had a headache for the whole day, and now it's getting better, so hopefully (Thursday) it will get better and I could be back soon."
1B Mark Teixeira accounted for three of the Yankees' five runs by hitting two home runs Wednesday in New York's 5-4 win over Cleveland. Teixeira hit a solo home run in the fourth inning and a two-run homer in the fifth. It was Teixeira's first multi-homer game since July 13, 2012, when he hit two home runs vs. the Angels. Wednesday was the 37th multi-homer game of his career.
RHP Brandon McCarthy got off to a bumpy start, but then he settled down to pitch 6 2/3 effective innings in his first start for the Yankees after being acquired in a trade with Arizona on July 6. McCarthy gave up four runs (one earned) on nine hits. "After the first inning, he shut them down for most of the game after that. He gave us a really good performance," manager Joe Girardi said.
CF Jacoby Ellsbury capped a 3-for-7 night with a game-deciding home run in the 14th inning Wednesday at Cleveland. "It felt like it was going to take a home run to get a run across," Ellsbury said. Two of his six homers on the season came in the past four days.
