MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament | The Salt Lake Tribune
MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament
Cleveland * Allowing nine runs in the last two innings wasn't the worst thing that happened to the New York Yankees on Thursday.
New York's 9-3 loss to the Cleveland Indians was overshadowed by the news that rookie sensation Masahiro Tanaka has a partially torn ligament in his right elbow.
General manager Brian Cashman said in a conference call during the game that Tanaka could return in six weeks, but didn't rule out the possibility of Tommy John surgery if the right-hander doesn't respond to a rehab program.
"Certainly disappointed for our player, for our organization," Cashman said. "He's been an important piece. We have a tremendously gifted and tough player. We'll see how he responds."
"It is what it is," manager Joe Girardi said. "We're not going to have him for at least six weeks and that's the tough part, but I'm optimistic that we'll have him back."
Tanaka was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday and had an MRI in New York, one day after his worst major league outing. He flew to Seattle on Thursday.
Cashman said Tanaka saw three doctors, including Yankees head physician Dr. Christopher Ahmad, and all three agreed that a six-week rehab program was the best option at this time.
"If we knew today that the best course of action was Tommy John surgery, despite the name and the amount of the investment, we would be doing Tommy John surgery," Cashman said.
Girardi, looking for any positive sign, said, "Guys have had success doing this and we'll keep our fingers crossed. That gives you reason for optimism that he's going to pitch again for us this year."
Tanaka, who is tied for the major league lead with 12 wins, allowed five runs and 10 hits Tuesday night in a 5-3 loss to the Indians. The All-Star is 12-4 with a 2.51 ERA in 18 starts, but has lost three of his past four outings.
story continues below
The injury is a huge blow to a battered Yankees rotation already was missing CC Sabathia, Ivan Nova and Michael Pineda to injuries. Tanaka had been a stabilizing ace in his first season since arriving from Japan.
"We've lost 80 percent of it," Girardi said. "There's really not a whole lot that you can go back and redo. You just gotta go out and find a way."
Copyright 2014 The Salt Lake Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Masahiro Tanaka's situation eerily similar to Matt Harvey's
Originally published: July 10, 2014 11:59 PM
Updated: July 11, 2014 12:11 AM
By STEPHEN HAYNES stephen.haynes@newsday.com
Matt Harvey delivers a pitch during a game against the San Diego Padres. (Aug. 18, 2013) (Credit: AP)
We've heard this narrative before, and not that long ago: A phenom pitcher, setting the league ablaze in his first go-round, complains of pain in his throwing arm. Immediately, an organization and its fan base nervously await the diagnosis.
The MRI reveals a partial tear in the right elbow. It's suggested that rest and treatment could be sufficient in the recuperation. But never far into the conversation are those dreaded words: "Tommy John surgery."
Mets star Matt Harvey is well aware of the thoughts swirling in Masahiro Tanaka's mind right now, a day after the Yankees' ace was diagnosed with a small tear in his ulnar collateral ligament. Doctors told Tanaka that, if all goes well, he could require only six weeks of recovery, but surgery hasn't been ruled out.
It's all eerily similar to what Harvey endured last summer.
"It was something that I felt I could work past and figure out an alternative to having surgery," said Harvey, whose sparkling season was cut short last August when a tear was discovered in his right elbow.
He initially opted for rehab."For me, it was a little bit of not believing that was the case . . . After not throwing for a couple days, everything felt fine."
But Harvey eventually had Tommy John surgery in October, convinced by two months of fear and mental anguish. "I didn't want to wake up every morning thinking, 'Is today going to be the day [the elbow] goes?' " Harvey said. "It took me a while, but I figured it was time to have the surgery."
Could the similarities extend to Tanaka, and if so, what would Harvey's advice be?
"I would tell him to just go with what you feel," he said. "Nobody is saying he can't rehab and be completely fine and never have an issue again . . . You want to go and try not to get [surgery] and you're committed to that, then more power to you. But if it's the other way around, then go get it done."
