MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament | The Salt Lake Tribune
MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament
Cleveland * Allowing nine runs in the last two innings wasn't the worst thing that happened to the New York Yankees on Thursday.
New York's 9-3 loss to the Cleveland Indians was overshadowed by the news that rookie sensation Masahiro Tanaka has a partially torn ligament in his right elbow.
General manager Brian Cashman said in a conference call during the game that Tanaka could return in six weeks, but didn't rule out the possibility of Tommy John surgery if the right-hander doesn't respond to a rehab program.
"Certainly disappointed for our player, for our organization," Cashman said. "He's been an important piece. We have a tremendously gifted and tough player. We'll see how he responds."
"It is what it is," manager Joe Girardi said. "We're not going to have him for at least six weeks and that's the tough part, but I'm optimistic that we'll have him back."
Tanaka was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday and had an MRI in New York, one day after his worst major league outing. He flew to Seattle on Thursday.
Cashman said Tanaka saw three doctors, including Yankees head physician Dr. Christopher Ahmad, and all three agreed that a six-week rehab program was the best option at this time.
"If we knew today that the best course of action was Tommy John surgery, despite the name and the amount of the investment, we would be doing Tommy John surgery," Cashman said.
Girardi, looking for any positive sign, said, "Guys have had success doing this and we'll keep our fingers crossed. That gives you reason for optimism that he's going to pitch again for us this year."
Tanaka, who is tied for the major league lead with 12 wins, allowed five runs and 10 hits Tuesday night in a 5-3 loss to the Indians. The All-Star is 12-4 with a 2.51 ERA in 18 starts, but has lost three of his past four outings.
story continues below
The injury is a huge blow to a battered Yankees rotation already was missing CC Sabathia, Ivan Nova and Michael Pineda to injuries. Tanaka had been a stabilizing ace in his first season since arriving from Japan.
"We've lost 80 percent of it," Girardi said. "There's really not a whole lot that you can go back and redo. You just gotta go out and find a way."
Copyright 2014 The Salt Lake Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Surgery not needed yet for Masahiro Tanaka's partially torn ligament - MLB - SI.com
The Yankees received some clarity on Masahiro Tanaka's injury status on Thursday. They were probably a bit happier in the dark.
In a briefing with the New York media during Thursday night's game against the Indians, general manager Brian Cashman said that Tanaka has a partially torn ulnar collateral ligament in his pitching elbow. The Japanese right-hander saw three doctors, all of whom came back with the same diagnosis; Tanaka will receive a platelet-rich injection, and then try to start a throwing program. Immediate surgery on the ligament was not recommended, but if the 25-year-old right-hander's elbow does not improve in six weeks via rehab, he will likely need to undergo the dreaded Tommy John procedure, which would cost him the rest of 2014 and a large chunk of next season as well.
After being largely unhittable for the first three months of the season, Tanaka has shown signs of being an actual mortal in recent weeks, allowing a combined nine runs and 19 hits to the Twins and Indians in his last two outings. Following that last start in Cleveland, Tanaka complained of soreness in his pitching arm, prompting the Yankees to schedule an MRI for him and place him on the disabled list with elbow inflammation. The results of the MRI showed the damage to Tanaka's elbow, which according to Cashman had not been present in the team's initial exam of their ace's arm when they signed him in the offseason.
Tanaka's injury calls to mind the injury suffered by another top-flight New York rookie last season: Matt Harvey. The Mets' prized right-hander also suffered a partially torn UCL and at first tried to defy the odds with rest and rehab. Weeks later, however, Harvey underwent Tommy John surgery, which has cost him the entire 2014 season to date.
Tanaka's injury is a huge blow for the Yankees, who are currently 46-45 and four games behind the Orioles for first place in the AL East. In games not started by 	Tanaka
, New York is 33-39, good for a .458 winning percentage -- in other words, in games started by anyone but 	Tanaka
, the Yankees are the Padres. What's more, the team does not have the sort of assets in its farm system to go out and acquire a big-time starting pitcher. The Yankees can already forget about David Price and Cliff Lee, the only potentially available pitchers who could even come close to doing for them what 	Tanaka
has thus far this season. 	Tanaka was 12-4 with a 2.51 ERA, 1.01 WHIP and 135 strikeouts in 129 1/3 innings in his first season in the U.S. after signing a seven-year, $155 million contract. With Tanaka joining CC Sabathia, Ivan Nova (also done for the year due to Tommy John surgery) and Michael Pineda on the DL, the Yankees will go forward with a rotation of Hiroki Kuroda, Brandon McCarthy, Chase Whitley and David Phelps, with recent call-up Shane Greene currently filling the fifth spot.
