MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament | The Salt Lake Tribune
MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament
Cleveland * Allowing nine runs in the last two innings wasn't the worst thing that happened to the New York Yankees on Thursday.
New York's 9-3 loss to the Cleveland Indians was overshadowed by the news that rookie sensation Masahiro Tanaka has a partially torn ligament in his right elbow.
General manager Brian Cashman said in a conference call during the game that Tanaka could return in six weeks, but didn't rule out the possibility of Tommy John surgery if the right-hander doesn't respond to a rehab program.
"Certainly disappointed for our player, for our organization," Cashman said. "He's been an important piece. We have a tremendously gifted and tough player. We'll see how he responds."
"It is what it is," manager Joe Girardi said. "We're not going to have him for at least six weeks and that's the tough part, but I'm optimistic that we'll have him back."
Tanaka was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday and had an MRI in New York, one day after his worst major league outing. He flew to Seattle on Thursday.
Cashman said Tanaka saw three doctors, including Yankees head physician Dr. Christopher Ahmad, and all three agreed that a six-week rehab program was the best option at this time.
"If we knew today that the best course of action was Tommy John surgery, despite the name and the amount of the investment, we would be doing Tommy John surgery," Cashman said.
Girardi, looking for any positive sign, said, "Guys have had success doing this and we'll keep our fingers crossed. That gives you reason for optimism that he's going to pitch again for us this year."
Tanaka, who is tied for the major league lead with 12 wins, allowed five runs and 10 hits Tuesday night in a 5-3 loss to the Indians. The All-Star is 12-4 with a 2.51 ERA in 18 starts, but has lost three of his past four outings.
story continues below
The injury is a huge blow to a battered Yankees rotation already was missing CC Sabathia, Ivan Nova and Michael Pineda to injuries. Tanaka had been a stabilizing ace in his first season since arriving from Japan.
"We've lost 80 percent of it," Girardi said. "There's really not a whole lot that you can go back and redo. You just gotta go out and find a way."
Copyright 2014 The Salt Lake Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Who will step up in the absence of Masahiro Tanaka? | NJ.com
CLEVELAND - As the Yankees attempt to pick up in the pieces in the aftermath of the devastating loss of ace Masahiro Tanaka for at least six weeks with a partial tear of the ulnar collateral ligament in his throwing arm, someone has to step up.
General manager Brian Cashman has vowed to continue to be aggressive in the trade market, but the Yankees must look in-house in the immediate future.
Rookie Shane Greene (1-0) stepped up Monday night in his first major-league start and earned a start on Saturday in Baltimore. Newly-acquired Brandon McCarthy turned in a workman-like performance Wednesday in his Yankees' debut.
Veteran Hiroki Kuroda (6-6, 4.20), who'll start on Friday against the Orioles, is the last man standing from the Yankees' initial starting rotation.
Thursday night, it was right-hander David Phelps, who pitched six strong innings before the bullpen unraveled in a 9-3 loss to the Indians at Progress Field.
Phelps, converted reliever, allowed seven hits and two runs over six-plus innings, departing in the seventh inning with two on and no outs. Both runners scored as Matt Thornton gave up a three-run triple to Asdrubal Cabrera.
"The first six innings were good," said Phelps, who is 3-4 with a 3.94 ERA in 14 starts. "It's frustrating I didn't finish it. Just throwing strikes and getting ahead of guys and not letting them get back in the count."
Entering Thursday night's game, Phelps was 2-0 with a 3.16 ERA in his previous four starts, beating heavy-hitting Oakland and Toronto.
"He has been really, really good," Girardi said. "Unfortunately, we weren't able to win the game for him."
