Dollar rises broadly
July 18, 2014
RECORDER REPORT
The dollar rose broadly on Wednesday amid market speculation Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is tilting toward tightening monetary policies that have kept US interest rates at record lows. "We are seeing the dollar strong against the euro, against sterling, against the yen a little bit," said Thierry Wizman, global interest rates and currencies strategist at Macquarie Group Limited in New York.
Disappointing economic reports in Europe and comments on Tuesday and Wednesday by Yellen before Congress suggesting US rate hikes may come sooner than expected were driving dollar purchases, currency strategists said. "It seems to me that there are a few more hawkish hints than we have seen lately," Wizman said. "I don't think we will get more hawkish hints from the Fed until September. But the trend until then, and through that period, is strongly US dollar."
The dollar index, which measures the dollar's performance against a basket of six other major currencies, was up 0.2 percent to 80.565 after touching its highest level in a month. "She cracked the door open to potentially earlier US rate rises, and that has really caught the market's attention," said Joe Manimbo, senior market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions in Washington.
Treasury yields, seen as central to the dollar's appeal in currency markets, were initially higher on Wednesday but later slipped, with the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note up 3/32 in price to yield 2.537 percent after touching a high of 2.57 percent. Sterling fell against the dollar to $1.7135, off a nearly six-year high of $1.7192 struck on Tuesday, but it was up against the euro to a near two-year peak. The euro was down 0.35 percent at $1.3523, falling to its lowest in one month, while the greenback was slightly higher against the yen at 101.71 yen after touching a one-week high of 101.79.
Copyright Reuters, 2014

Yellen rejects move to set up formula for Fed - Business - The Boston Globe
WASHINGTON -- Janet Yellen, chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, said Wednesday it would be a serious mistake for Congress to require the nation's central bank to adopt a formal policy rule to guide its decisions on setting interest rates.
Yellen faced questions from Republicans about legislation they are supporting to make the Fed more accountable and make its policy decisions more transparent. One of the requirements would have the Fed adopt a policy rule that would govern future decisions and would have the Government Accountability Office audit the rule.
Continue reading below
Yellen rejected that approach, saying the Fed needs the flexibility it has to make policy decisions.
''It would be a grave mistake for the Fed to commit to conduct monetary policy according to a mathematical rule. No central bank does that,'' Yellen told lawmakers.
She said that while the House legislation introduced last week would allow the Fed to deviate from any rule that it set up, any such change would trigger an audit by the GAO, the auditing arm of Congress. She said this procedure would ''undermine central bank independence in the conduct of monetary policy.''
Yellen's comments came during an appearance before the House Financial Services Committee to present the Fed's semi-annual economic report to Congress.
Yellen repeated the testimony she had given on Tuesday before the Senate Banking Committee in which she said that while the economy is improving, it needs support from the Fed in the form of exceptionally low interest rates.
Continue reading below
Yellen's discussion with GOP members of the committee over the proposed Federal Reserve Accountability and Transparency Act represented the sharpest questioning she has received from Congress since taking over in February.
Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, chairman of the House financial services committee, told Yellen that many lawmakers believed its power needed to be checked.
''The status quo is unacceptable,'' he said. ''A dramatic increase in power calls for a corresponding increase in accountability and transparency.''
Yellen maintained that the legislation as written would make it harder for the central bank to keep inflation under control and achieve maximum employment.
