Global markets: animal spirits or irrational exuberance? - Livemint
The noise around asset bubbles and frothy valuations across some pockets of the global markets is getting louder. Not surprisingly, it's the global central bankers that are blowing the whistle, although they have been careful not to blow it too loud. From the US Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen to Jamie Caruana of the Bank of International Settlements (BIS) and the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) Raghuram Rajan, they have slowly started introducing words like "euphoric", "substantially stretched" and "frothy" as adjectives to describe parts of the global market.
On Tuesday, the US Fed in its semi-annual report on monetary policy to the US Congress noted that, "valuation metrics in some sectors do appear substantially stretched--particularly those for smaller firms in the social media and biotechnology industries". Stocks of these companies swooned in response. The Fed was, of course, careful to preface that comment by saying that valuation measures for the overall market are not far above their historical averages, else there may have been a broader sell-off in the US markets.
In an earlier speech (2 July) to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), too, Yellen had talked about "pockets of increased risk taking across the financial system" as a consequence of easy money policies that developed market central banks have followed since the 2008 financial crisis.
The Fed, in fact, has been more sanguine about the rise in asset prices than many others in the central banking community. The BIS, considered to be the central bankers' bank, has been the most vocal. In its annual report released on 29 June, it said that while financial markets are "euphoric", long-term growth prospects of the global economy are not that bright, progress in strengthening bank balance sheets has been uneven and private debt continues to grow. In a subsequent interview to The Telegraph on 13 July, Caruana said that markets "have become convinced that monetary conditions will remain easy for a very long time".
Back home, Rajan and the RBI, too, have flagged off the risk in the 3 June monetary policy review, where RBI said that financial markets "remain vulnerable to news about the impending normalisation of interest rates in some developed economies, even as some valuations appear frothy". So the chatter is picking up. Now let's look at why that may be.
If you look at pure equity market indicators, such as price-earnings (P-E) ratio, you don't get the sense that valuations are totally out of whack. The MSCI World Index is trading at a one-year forward P-E of 15.97x compared to a five-year average P-E of 13.88x. The MSCI Emerging Market Index is at 11.76x versus 11.68x and India's benchmark S&) BSE Sensex is at 16.21x versus the five-year average of 15.88x.
But if you go a step further and look at the economic backdrop, you start to see that this may not just be a case of central bankers doing what they do best--playing party pooper. The US, for instance, has seen a drop of 2.9% in gross domestic product (GDP) in the first quarter of 2014, although part of that was due to extreme cold weather conditions. At the same time, the unemployment rate in the US is falling quicker than expected (6.1% in June) and some inflation indicators have moved up since the start of the year, which has led to a debate around whether the Fed should start to normalize rates faster than earlier anticipated. Should the markets be worried? Probably. Are they worried? No, if you go by the fact that the Dow Jones Industrial Average and several other global markets are flirting with record highs.
In India, too, juxtaposing economic conditions and market trends throws up a similar disconnect. Economic growth has been below 5% for two years and is only expected to pick up moderately to about 5.5% (RBI estimates) in fiscal 2015. The benchmark Sensex, however, is up 20% year-to-date. Sure, markets are leading indicators but you can only stretch that argument so far.
Besides, if you start looking at individual pockets within asset markets, it's not tough to find areas where prices are far ahead of fundamentals. The US Fed pointed to social media stocks, the Bank of England has warned of a property bubble being the biggest risk to economic recovery, and the Hong Kong central bank, too, clamped down on property markets earlier this year. In India, an instance of irrational exuberance (no one has called it that though) can perhaps be seen in stock price moves of debt laden companies. As an example, shares of GVK Power Ltd are up 75% this year even though the company was struggling with Rs.21,837 crore in debt at the end of March. Jaypee Infratech Ltd, which has Rs.7,775 crore in debt, has seen its stock rise 45% year-to-date.
The point very simply is that repercussions of years of easy money policies are starting to show up in small and not so small ways. Central bankers are starting to notice and act. Maybe it's time the rest of us do too.
