Baseball's 2nd half set up for dramatic finishes - SFGate
Sure, it was great for a couple days. The cheers for Derek Jeter. The power of Giancarlo Stanton. The excellence of Mike Trout in the American League's 5-3 victory.
Baseball's All-Star party in the Twin Cities was a long series of smiles for players and fans. But the break is over now, and the real fun begins Friday night.
Heading into the second half of the season, there are all sorts of compelling stories from coast to coast. It could be one fun summer in California, where the A's begin the weekend with the best record in the majors, and the Giants, Angels and Dodgers sit in prime playoff position. The recovery of several key injured players could dramatically affect a couple divisions, and the non-waiver trade deadline looms two weeks away.
Boston pitcher Jake Peavy, Philadelphia second baseman Chase Utley, San Diego closer Huston Street and New York Mets right-hander Bartolo Colon are thought to be on the market as contenders shop for that missing piece that could pay off into October.
"I guess there's a possibility for anything, but at this point I love playing in Philadelphia," said Utley, who could veto any deal.
Jeter was warmly greeted everywhere he went this week, and the Yankees captain contributed two hits to the AL All-Star win. Any chance of his final season ending in the playoffs likely depends on the return of rookie ace Masahiro Tanaka, who is out with a partially torn ligament in his right elbow. He is going through a six-week rehab program but season-ending surgery is an option. Michael Pineda also could return from a back injury to New York's battered rotation.
The Bronx is one of many spots where health is an issue for the stretch run.
The recovery of Reds sluggers Joey Votto (strained muscle above left knee) and Brandon Phillips (left thumb) along with indispensable Cardinals catcher Yadier Molina (right thumb) could affect the bunched NL Central. The Pirates could get starting pitcher Gerrit Cole (tight lat muscle) in the first few weeks after the break.
"We know what we're capable of doing, and we're going to play like we've been there before, like we've done it before," said slugger Andrew McCutchen, hoping to lead Pittsburgh back to the playoffs for the second straight year. "That's what we've got to look forward to."
The strained right quadriceps of Toronto's Edwin Encarnacion and ailing back of Detroit's Victor Martinez also bear watching. Atlanta, which is battling Washington for the top spot in the NL East, could get a lift from the return of Evan Gattis after the catcher was sidelined by a bulging disk in his back.
Beyond the standings, the races for individual honors will come into focus.
Trout could add the AL MVP award to his one from the All-Star game, especially if the Angels can run down the A's in the competitive AL West. Shortstop Troy Tulowitzki is among the favorites for the NL award, but he could be hurt by the Rockies' poor play.
The NL Cy Young Award features an interesting duel between Clayton Kershaw of the Dodgers and Adam Wainwright of the Cardinals.
Trying for a repeat, Kershaw had a 41-inning scoreless streak that ended last week and carried a 1.78 ERA into the break. But Wainwright is 12-4 with a 1.83 ERA in 138 innings, compared with 96 1/3 for Kershaw, who missed all of April with a back problem.
White Sox first baseman Jose Abreu, the overwhelming favorite for AL Rookie of the Year with Tanaka on the shelf, could become baseball's first rookie home run king since the Athletics' Mark McGwire in 1987 and even threaten McGwire's rookie record of 49.
"He's continuing to make adjustments with what other teams are trying to do to him," White Sox manager Robin Ventura said last month, "and when he hits it on the barrel it goes a long way."
