Harris victims 'proud' of guilty verdict
By Australian Associated Press
Published: 12:10 GMT, 1 July 2014 | Updated: 12:10 GMT, 1 July 2014
One of Rolf Harris's victims, Australian Tonya Lee, says she feels proud, excited and "gobsmacked" the Australian entertainer has been found guilty.
The 84-year-old was convicted on Monday of 12 counts of indecent assault against four girls, one of whom was as young as seven or eight.
Ms Lee on Tuesday said she couldn't believe the guilty verdict had been handed down.
"I am so happy that he was found guilty," she told the Nine Network.
"It just shows the justice system does work."
Three of the 12 charges Harris faced at his British trial related to Ms Lee, who said the assaults took place when she was 14 and part of a theatre group touring London.
She said she still hated him for what he did to her life.
"I hate that he's ruined my life and he doesn't even acknowledge it," she said.
"He doesn't even remember me, that's what he told the court. Can you believe that?
"It just makes me think that he's done it time and time again, but what he's done to my life is unchangeable."
The mother of three, who is the only victim to go public, said she had no regrets about speaking out.
"You need to tell people this is what happened to you, this person can't get away with it," she said.
"I wanted to open the door for other women to come forward."
She said that she saw Harris going into court, but did not say anything to him.
"I wanted to say a lot to him," she said.
"I just don't think he would have heard or listened, understood. I don't think he would have known the impact of what he's done."
When asked if she will now be able to move on, she said she did not know.
"I still struggle from day to day," she said.
Ms Lee's reaction to the verdict comes as one of Harris' friends, Cathy Henkel, told the ABC she was saddened but not surprised by the verdict.
Ms Henkel led the theatre group on its London tour and was a witness in the eight-week trial, testifying on behalf of Ms Lee.
She said Mr Harris' brother, Bruce, badgered her "a little bit" when news of the charges broke, and asked Ms Henkel repeatedly "it couldn't have happened, you have to say it couldn't have happened."
"But I couldn't say that," she said.
"I had to say `I can't say it didn't happen'."
Ms Henkel said she never observed anything sinister in Harris' behaviour, and never thought he would abuse children.
Harris is likely to be jailed at his sentencing on Friday.

