Commentary
Time to start the legend of Troy?
Troy Tulowitzki wants to win and the Yankees need to find Derek Jeter's successor
The daydreaming about Colorado Rockies All-Star shortstop Troy Tulowitzki someday replacing Derek Jeter in the New York Yankees' lineup didn't just start when they both pulled into Minneapolis for this week's All-Star Game, and reporters revived the stories about how Tulowitzki grew up idolizing Jeter, or how he wears No. 2 in honor of him.
Tulowitzki started directly addressing the speculation way back in spring training because the Yankees are going to have two vacancies -- at shortstop, and as the face of the franchise -- when Jeter retires after this season.
[+] Enlarge	Justin Edmonds/Getty ImagesTroy Tulowitzki could follow in the footsteps of his idol, Derek Jeter.
Now, the best reason to still consider the possibility that Tulowitzki, the best all-around shortstop in the game, could end up in New York isn't just that he already fills those roles for Colorado. Or that the Yankees could absorb the seven years left on his $157.5 million contract that runs through the 2020 season, with a club option for 2021.
The reason to pay attention to the Tulowitzki talk is Tulowitzki himself doesn't dismiss it.
If anything, Tulowitzki seems willing to talk about coming to the Yanks whenever he's asked, wherever he's asked.
Doesn't matter if it's on a sleepy day at spring training, or at media day at the All-Star Game on Monday -- one of the biggest stages in the game, besides the World Series -- as he was speaking for about an hour to wave after wave of reporters. He also has broad power to veto where the Rockies might want to send him. And that's a factor in where he might land, too.
Tulowitzki could demur every time and blandly say it's unseemly for him to keep directly addressing replacing Jeter. After all, he's the undisputed face of the Rockies' franchise now that Todd Helton has retired after 17 seasons (but not a single division title) with the Rockies.
He just made the All-Star Game for the fourth time in his seven-year career, but the team is foundering again. During one miserable stretch this season, Colorado lost 28 of 38 games. The Rockies haven't made the playoffs since 2009. The only other time Tulowitzki has even been in the postseason was 2007, his sensational rookie year, when the Rockies got hot late and ran all the way to the World Series before losing to the Red Sox.
And yet, despite -- or perhaps because of -- having all that going on, the 29-year-old Tulowitzki doesn't shut down the Yankees' trade talk.
He fans the embers.
A little over a week before heading to Minneapolis, he told the Denver Post's Mark Kiszla, "In Todd Helton, there's someone who's easy to look at his career here and how it played out. I have the utmost respect for Todd, but at the same time, I don't want to be the next in line as somebody who was here for a long time and didn't have a chance to win every single year. He played in a couple postseason games and went to one World Series. But that's not me.
"I want to be somewhere where there's a chance to be in the playoffs every single year."
Tulowitzki didn't back down once at the All-Star Game, either. When asked about Jeter, whose baseball camps he used to work at, Tulowitzki said: "Everybody wants that perfect story, whoever it may be. Whether it's me or somebody else who took over for Derek, no doubt, it makes for a great story ... [The Rockies' organization] know(s) how important winning is to me. If they feel like, 'Hey, we need to get younger,' and they feel like they can get some prospects from me, then that's what it is. But I'm not demanding a trade."
It was basically the same theme Tulowitzki has been repeating since spring training.
The Yankees will have cheaper, even younger shortstop options to chase this offseason. Starlin Castro, Hanley Ramirez, Elvis Andrus, maybe Jose Reyes or Asdrubal Cabrera could all be available. But Tulowitzki is better than any of them. This season he's already hit 21 home runs and has a sensational .345/.435/.613 slash line.
The Yanks always suffer in trade talks versus free-agent chases because of their thin farm system. But don't discount the star-power vacuum the Yankees will be facing with Jeter gone just a year after Robinson Cano and Mariano Rivera left the building.
That matters to them, too. Yanks GM Brian Cashman talks often about the Yankees being "big-game hunters."
And the void Jeter leaves will of course be palpable, especially with Masahiro Tanaka and CC Sabathia facing uncertain futures, and Jacoby Ellsbury and Brian McCann so far looking like nothing more than good players whose personalities don't move the needle much.
It takes a lot to get noticed in New York. And it's hard not to notice how much Tulowitzki is courting the chance to come here. Not looking the other way.
A lot of this long drum roll reminds you of when Alex Rodriguez wanted out of Texas. And the Yankees found a way.


Felix doesn't get All-Star victory, but American League defeats National League, 5-3 | Mariners | The Seattle Times
MINNEAPOLIS -- Felix Hernandez was in line to get the win on Tuesday night, but his teammates couldn't secure it for him and he had to settle for a no-decision.
Sound familiar?
To be fair, this time the circumstances were slightly different. This was the All-Star Game -- a game that has slightly less meaning than a showdown with Oakland. Hernandez didn't deliver seven or eight innings of baseball goodness only to see it slip away late because of bullpen issues or a lack of run support.
This time it was the best pitchers in the American League, who couldn't hold the lead. This time it was the best hitters in the American League, hitters he terrorizes in the regular season, that couldn't add the requisite insurance runs. So it was another no decision. But the ending was still happy for Hernandez.
The American League prevailed in the end, picking up a 5-3 victory at a packed Target Field.
"It was amazing," Hernandez said. "One of the best experiences of my life. It was a special night for me and my family."
So if the Mariners make it to the World Series, something that seems far less implausible than it did at the beginning of the season, he'll be able to start Game 1 at Safeco Field with the home-field advantage.
"That works, doesn't it?" said teammate Kyle Seager.
Under the scoring rules of the All-Star Game, Hernandez was in line to get the win after throwing a scoreless top of the first inning and his teammates giving him a 3-0 lead in the bottom of the inning.
Hernandez gave up an infield single to the ultra speedy Andrew McCutchen to start the game. McCutchen hit a bullet to shortstop where Derek Jeter was able to make a brilliant diving stop, but his throw was late.
Hernandez locked in, striking out Yasiel Puig and Troy Tulowitzki on nasty changeups and then getting Paul Goldschmidt to ground out to third to end his outing.
"I was a little nervous but felt good and settled in," he said.
His teammates gave him three runs in the first inning. After a two-minute standing ovation, Derek Jeter lined the first pitch he saw from NL starter Adam Wainwright into right field for a double. The pitch from Wainwright was a belt-high, 90-mph cookie of a fastball that split the plate in half. Jeter didn't miss it.
Wainwright admitted he eased up for Jeter.
"I was gonna give him a couple pipe shots. He deserved it," Wainwright told reporters. "I didn't know he was gonna hit a double or I might have changed my mind."
NL manager Mike Matheny tried to defray that notion.
"I know that has been completely blown out of proportion and taken out of context," Matheny said. "Anybody that knows anything about this guy knows that he's one of the greatest competitors that played this game in a long time."
Jeter scored on Mike Trout's triple off the wall in right field and Miguel Cabrera followed with a line drive two-run homer over the wall in left field.
Jon Lester, a native of Puyallup and a graduate of Bellarmine Prep in Tacoma, replaced Hernandez after his one inning. He gave up two runs on RBI doubles to Chase Utley and Jonathan Lucroy. But it still kept Hernandez in line for the win. It became a no-decision in the fourth inning when Lucroy doubled off lefty Chris Sale to score the lightning-fast Dee Gordon all the way from first base.
Like in the regular season, Hernandez shrugged off not getting the win since his team won in the end.
"Sure, it would have been good," he said. "But there's some pretty good players on the other side, too. It was a fun night and I was happy how things went for me and the guys."
The American League broke the 3-3 tie in the bottom of the fifth. Trout doubled home Derek Norris and Jose Altuve scored Alexei Ramirez with a deep sacrifice fly to left field.
The AL kept the 5-3 lead with seven pitchers, including Mariner Fernando Rodney, combining to work the final four innings without allowing a run.
But the night still belonged to Jeter. It was apparent in the days leading up to the game. Countless words were written about the narrative of his last All-Star Game in a storied career. When he singled to right field with his signature inside-out swing on a 94-mph fastball from Alfredo Simon in the third inning, it seemed to cement his status as the game's MVP. However, Trout's two extra-base hits and two RBI earned him the honor instead.
"I told you guys before, I'm not retiring at the end of the season because I don't think I can play," Jeter said. "It's just the time is right."
As promised, Farrell removed Jeter at the beginning of the fourth inning, replacing him with Ramirez. This allowed Jeter to jog off the field as the crowd of 41,048 stood and applauded. The ovation, which included the players on the field and in both dugouts, lasted well over five minutes, long enough for Jeter to hug all of his American League teammates and give an appreciated curtain call.
One of those applauding was his longtime teammate Robinson Cano, who got to start next to Jeter as they had done so many times in New York.
"It was fun," he said. "That's all I wanted to do was enjoy my time with him."
