Commentary
Time to start the legend of Troy?
Troy Tulowitzki wants to win and the Yankees need to find Derek Jeter's successor
The daydreaming about Colorado Rockies All-Star shortstop Troy Tulowitzki someday replacing Derek Jeter in the New York Yankees' lineup didn't just start when they both pulled into Minneapolis for this week's All-Star Game, and reporters revived the stories about how Tulowitzki grew up idolizing Jeter, or how he wears No. 2 in honor of him.
Tulowitzki started directly addressing the speculation way back in spring training because the Yankees are going to have two vacancies -- at shortstop, and as the face of the franchise -- when Jeter retires after this season.
[+] Enlarge	Justin Edmonds/Getty ImagesTroy Tulowitzki could follow in the footsteps of his idol, Derek Jeter.
Now, the best reason to still consider the possibility that Tulowitzki, the best all-around shortstop in the game, could end up in New York isn't just that he already fills those roles for Colorado. Or that the Yankees could absorb the seven years left on his $157.5 million contract that runs through the 2020 season, with a club option for 2021.
The reason to pay attention to the Tulowitzki talk is Tulowitzki himself doesn't dismiss it.
If anything, Tulowitzki seems willing to talk about coming to the Yanks whenever he's asked, wherever he's asked.
Doesn't matter if it's on a sleepy day at spring training, or at media day at the All-Star Game on Monday -- one of the biggest stages in the game, besides the World Series -- as he was speaking for about an hour to wave after wave of reporters. He also has broad power to veto where the Rockies might want to send him. And that's a factor in where he might land, too.
Tulowitzki could demur every time and blandly say it's unseemly for him to keep directly addressing replacing Jeter. After all, he's the undisputed face of the Rockies' franchise now that Todd Helton has retired after 17 seasons (but not a single division title) with the Rockies.
He just made the All-Star Game for the fourth time in his seven-year career, but the team is foundering again. During one miserable stretch this season, Colorado lost 28 of 38 games. The Rockies haven't made the playoffs since 2009. The only other time Tulowitzki has even been in the postseason was 2007, his sensational rookie year, when the Rockies got hot late and ran all the way to the World Series before losing to the Red Sox.
And yet, despite -- or perhaps because of -- having all that going on, the 29-year-old Tulowitzki doesn't shut down the Yankees' trade talk.
He fans the embers.
A little over a week before heading to Minneapolis, he told the Denver Post's Mark Kiszla, "In Todd Helton, there's someone who's easy to look at his career here and how it played out. I have the utmost respect for Todd, but at the same time, I don't want to be the next in line as somebody who was here for a long time and didn't have a chance to win every single year. He played in a couple postseason games and went to one World Series. But that's not me.
"I want to be somewhere where there's a chance to be in the playoffs every single year."
Tulowitzki didn't back down once at the All-Star Game, either. When asked about Jeter, whose baseball camps he used to work at, Tulowitzki said: "Everybody wants that perfect story, whoever it may be. Whether it's me or somebody else who took over for Derek, no doubt, it makes for a great story ... [The Rockies' organization] know(s) how important winning is to me. If they feel like, 'Hey, we need to get younger,' and they feel like they can get some prospects from me, then that's what it is. But I'm not demanding a trade."
It was basically the same theme Tulowitzki has been repeating since spring training.
The Yankees will have cheaper, even younger shortstop options to chase this offseason. Starlin Castro, Hanley Ramirez, Elvis Andrus, maybe Jose Reyes or Asdrubal Cabrera could all be available. But Tulowitzki is better than any of them. This season he's already hit 21 home runs and has a sensational .345/.435/.613 slash line.
The Yanks always suffer in trade talks versus free-agent chases because of their thin farm system. But don't discount the star-power vacuum the Yankees will be facing with Jeter gone just a year after Robinson Cano and Mariano Rivera left the building.
That matters to them, too. Yanks GM Brian Cashman talks often about the Yankees being "big-game hunters."
And the void Jeter leaves will of course be palpable, especially with Masahiro Tanaka and CC Sabathia facing uncertain futures, and Jacoby Ellsbury and Brian McCann so far looking like nothing more than good players whose personalities don't move the needle much.
It takes a lot to get noticed in New York. And it's hard not to notice how much Tulowitzki is courting the chance to come here. Not looking the other way.
A lot of this long drum roll reminds you of when Alex Rodriguez wanted out of Texas. And the Yankees found a way.


MINNEAPOLIS --
Derek Jeter was a huge hit from the very start in his final All-Star Game.
Batting leadoff for the American League, the 40-year-old shortstop for the New York Yankees soaked in an ovation that lasted more than a minute at Target Field, then seized the moment Tuesday night by hitting a double.
Jeter soon crossed the plate for the game's first run. After three innings of action, he was ceremonially removed from his familiar position in the field to one more round of revering cheers as his mom, dad, sister and nephew watched from the stands.
"It's been fun family time for us," Jeter said during the American League's 5-3 win.
The double was one of Jeter's classic, opposite-field line drives to right. He singled to right field in his next at-bat, too, raising his All-Star batting average to a robust .481 -- 13 hits in 27 at-bats. That's the second-best of all time for players with 20 or more at-bats, behind Hall of Famer Charlie Gehringer.
OK, so maybe NL starter Adam Wainwright admitted he threw something juicy for Jeter to hit.
"I was going to give him a couple pipe shots," the right-hander said. "He deserved it."
After the remarks caused much commentary on the Internet, Wainwright said he mis-spoke.
"What I meant to say was I'm intentionally trying to throw a strike to get him out. It's what I do most of the time, almost all the time," he said. "`Piping one' is the wrong window for that. It really is. If I'm going to get taken to the slaughterhouse for saying a stupid phrase, then I deserve it. What can you do?"
Jeter didn't think he was being given a gift and thought Wainwright was throwing hard.
"He grooved them?" he asked. "I don't know, man. ... If he grooved it, thank you. You still have to hit it."
Jeter showed off in the field, too.
In the top of the first, he made a slick, diving stop on Andrew McCutchen's sharp groundball up the middle. Jeter got to his feet and fired an on-target throw to first base, but the fleet-footed McCutchen was too fast, just beating it out for a leadoff single.
McCutchen smiled and pointed at Jeter, who grinned back at the reigning NL MVP.
The Yankees captain also had a few words for his teammates. AL manager John Farrell of Boston asked Jeter to speak to the players in the clubhouse before the game.
"Just said a couple things," Jeter said.
This was the 14th time Jeter was picked as an All-Star. He's set to retire after this season. When Jeter stepped to the plate, the crowd gave him a 63-second ovation, prompting him to wave, nod and tip his helmet several times.
Wainwright, who spoke the day before about how proud he would be to pitch to Jeter on this memorable occasion, backed up toward second base and left his glove on the mound so he could clap along with everyone else at the ballpark.
"For him to do that meant a lot to me," Jeter said.
With a wide smile, Jeter shouted a few words toward the St. Louis ace, good-naturedly encouraging him to get the inning going.
"Just saying, 'Dude, I'm not going anywhere until this ovation is starting to die down,'" Wainwright said. "So he was telling me to go, and I just thought he deserved it."
Fittingly, a recording of late Yankees public address announcer Bob Sheppard's famous monotone introduction was played as he walked up for his at-bat with thousands of smartphones snapping away in the seats: "Now batting, for the American League, from the New York Yankees, the shortstop, No. 2, Derek Jeter, No. 2."
The tribute came right after a national television audience tuned to Fox saw a Nike commercial that featured the likes of Michael Jordan, Jay-Z and Rudolph Giuliani paying their respects to the captain. Right after that, he connected on the second pitch from Wainwright.
"I didn't know he was going to hit a double, or I would have changed my mind on that," Wainwright said. "I thought he was going to hit something hard to the right side for a single or an out. I probably should have pitched him a little bit better."
In the third, Jeter took Cincinnati ace Alfredo Simon to a full count before his single.
Then, right before the fourth inning began, Jeter was taken out for Alexei Ramirez and the captain jogged off. With Frank Sinatra's "New York, New York" playing on the stadium speakers, he waved to the crowd and exchanged hugs and handshakes in the AL dugout and then took a curtain call before the game resumed.
Earlier in the day, Jeter was the first player to ride down the red carpet that was rolled out for downtown parade of the game's greats, from their hotel to the ballpark about 10 blocks away. The hearty ovations started there, while Jeter rode with his parents and other family members, who came to Minneapolis for the event.
"I think everyone WANTS it to sink in that this is my last," Jeter said in the clubhouse before batting practice, "but I'm just trying to enjoy it while I'm here and stop thinking about this is the last one."
Commissioner Bud Selig said Major League Baseball has been discussing ways to formally honor Jeter as he enters the final few months of his career.
"If you were sitting two decades ago and you said, 'Boy, this is a guy I want to be the face of baseball and be what this generation will remember,' you couldn't have written a script like this," Selig said. "He is just remarkable."
