Commentary
Time to start the legend of Troy?
Troy Tulowitzki wants to win and the Yankees need to find Derek Jeter's successor
The daydreaming about Colorado Rockies All-Star shortstop Troy Tulowitzki someday replacing Derek Jeter in the New York Yankees' lineup didn't just start when they both pulled into Minneapolis for this week's All-Star Game, and reporters revived the stories about how Tulowitzki grew up idolizing Jeter, or how he wears No. 2 in honor of him.
Tulowitzki started directly addressing the speculation way back in spring training because the Yankees are going to have two vacancies -- at shortstop, and as the face of the franchise -- when Jeter retires after this season.
[+] Enlarge	Justin Edmonds/Getty ImagesTroy Tulowitzki could follow in the footsteps of his idol, Derek Jeter.
Now, the best reason to still consider the possibility that Tulowitzki, the best all-around shortstop in the game, could end up in New York isn't just that he already fills those roles for Colorado. Or that the Yankees could absorb the seven years left on his $157.5 million contract that runs through the 2020 season, with a club option for 2021.
The reason to pay attention to the Tulowitzki talk is Tulowitzki himself doesn't dismiss it.
If anything, Tulowitzki seems willing to talk about coming to the Yanks whenever he's asked, wherever he's asked.
Doesn't matter if it's on a sleepy day at spring training, or at media day at the All-Star Game on Monday -- one of the biggest stages in the game, besides the World Series -- as he was speaking for about an hour to wave after wave of reporters. He also has broad power to veto where the Rockies might want to send him. And that's a factor in where he might land, too.
Tulowitzki could demur every time and blandly say it's unseemly for him to keep directly addressing replacing Jeter. After all, he's the undisputed face of the Rockies' franchise now that Todd Helton has retired after 17 seasons (but not a single division title) with the Rockies.
He just made the All-Star Game for the fourth time in his seven-year career, but the team is foundering again. During one miserable stretch this season, Colorado lost 28 of 38 games. The Rockies haven't made the playoffs since 2009. The only other time Tulowitzki has even been in the postseason was 2007, his sensational rookie year, when the Rockies got hot late and ran all the way to the World Series before losing to the Red Sox.
And yet, despite -- or perhaps because of -- having all that going on, the 29-year-old Tulowitzki doesn't shut down the Yankees' trade talk.
He fans the embers.
A little over a week before heading to Minneapolis, he told the Denver Post's Mark Kiszla, "In Todd Helton, there's someone who's easy to look at his career here and how it played out. I have the utmost respect for Todd, but at the same time, I don't want to be the next in line as somebody who was here for a long time and didn't have a chance to win every single year. He played in a couple postseason games and went to one World Series. But that's not me.
"I want to be somewhere where there's a chance to be in the playoffs every single year."
Tulowitzki didn't back down once at the All-Star Game, either. When asked about Jeter, whose baseball camps he used to work at, Tulowitzki said: "Everybody wants that perfect story, whoever it may be. Whether it's me or somebody else who took over for Derek, no doubt, it makes for a great story ... [The Rockies' organization] know(s) how important winning is to me. If they feel like, 'Hey, we need to get younger,' and they feel like they can get some prospects from me, then that's what it is. But I'm not demanding a trade."
It was basically the same theme Tulowitzki has been repeating since spring training.
The Yankees will have cheaper, even younger shortstop options to chase this offseason. Starlin Castro, Hanley Ramirez, Elvis Andrus, maybe Jose Reyes or Asdrubal Cabrera could all be available. But Tulowitzki is better than any of them. This season he's already hit 21 home runs and has a sensational .345/.435/.613 slash line.
The Yanks always suffer in trade talks versus free-agent chases because of their thin farm system. But don't discount the star-power vacuum the Yankees will be facing with Jeter gone just a year after Robinson Cano and Mariano Rivera left the building.
That matters to them, too. Yanks GM Brian Cashman talks often about the Yankees being "big-game hunters."
And the void Jeter leaves will of course be palpable, especially with Masahiro Tanaka and CC Sabathia facing uncertain futures, and Jacoby Ellsbury and Brian McCann so far looking like nothing more than good players whose personalities don't move the needle much.
It takes a lot to get noticed in New York. And it's hard not to notice how much Tulowitzki is courting the chance to come here. Not looking the other way.
A lot of this long drum roll reminds you of when Alex Rodriguez wanted out of Texas. And the Yankees found a way.


Derek Jeter double at All-Star Game sparks trouble as Adam Wainwright drops ball with his delivery - NY Daily News
Rob Carr/Getty Images NL starter Adam Wainwright must explain to Erin Andrews his in-game comments that he gave Derek Jeter pitches 'he can handle' on Yank's leadoff double.
Derek Jeter's All-Star finale had everything, including controversy.
And perhaps a pitcher who cut El Capitan some slack.
During the tilt, Fox's Ken Rosenthal reported -- well after it was blowing up on Twitter -- that Cardinals hurler Adam Wainwright said he threw Jeter a couple of first-inning pitches "he could handle." Jeter, leading off for the AL, lined one into the right field corner for a double.
Wainwright's comments to reporters first started making the rounds on social media around the fourth inning, leading him to an explanatory in-game interview with Erin Andrews, who asked him to explain his comments.
The pitcher indicated he's just a misunderstood comedian.
"Sometimes my humor gets taken the wrong way," Wainwright said. "I feel terrible about this. If anyone is taking any credit away from what Derek Jeter has done today or off me it was mis-said. I hope people know I'm not intentionally giving up hits. . . . I'm very competitive."
Andrews: "Don't you love social media?"
"No," Wainwright said, "I don't love social media."
The Foxies do, if it helped boost their All-Star ratings. . . .
It was our mistake getting caught up in the hype leading up to Derek Jeter's 14th and final All-Star Game appearance Tuesday night in Minneapolis. Through his 20 years with the Yankees, just about everything had been said about the way Jeter plays the game and lives his life under an unforgiving spotlight.
So, hours before the first pitch, the talk was reduced to how he would handle the moment and what his final All-Star exit would be. Caught between the end of NBA free agency and the opening of NFL training camps, Jeter speculation would have to do inside the Valley of the Stupid and other media precincts.
There were predictions Jeter, even on such an occasion, would stay true to his Captain Ice persona. No emotion would be revealed. The result could be Fox, and its voices Joe Buck, Tom Verducci and Harold Reynolds, to do more talking and reminiscing in an attempt to put a human touch to the proceedings.
This never happened. It never became necessary. For as Reynolds said, in the line of the night while describing Jeter: "Some guys can just stop the moment and ask it to come to them." He said this in the bottom of the third inning, moments before Jeter would get his second hit of the evening.
Long before the blooper to right, Jeter gave every indication that this would be a different kind of night for him, as he used Buck as his straight man in the pregame show opening. Buck walked into the AL clubhouse. He introduced a couple of players before getting to Jeter who was sitting next to a familiar face. "Over here in the corner by his former teammate Robinson Cano you got the captain, Derek Jeter," Buck said. "This is his 14th . . ."
Jeter, with a dismissive wave of the hand in Buck's direction, said: "Let's go, we've got a game to play, bro." That would be the only shticky moment of the night, but not the only uncharacteristic moment for Jeter.
KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/Reuters Erin Andrews asks Adam Wainwright to clarify his Derek Jeter comments.
For a man who has kept his clubhouse interaction with teammates private, it was a highlight seeing him address the AL All-Stars in the clubhouse. His words revealed where his head is at with the final (baseball) curtain in sight. "Remember every time you put your uniform on because trust me," Jeter said, "it goes quickly."
This introspective highlight, captured by Fox, was a one-of-a-kind thing. It was as if Jeter wanted to chronicle the moment, have a video souvenir to remember it by. For the rest of the evening was typical Jeter. When Jeter was introduced, there was a wave of the cap but no smile. And when Broadway's Idina Menzel sang Bob Dylan's "Forever Young," Fox resisted the temptation of having its camera linger on Jeter.
Why emphasize the obvious?
As it turned out, Jeter would soon make that point himself. Leading off the first, Andrew McCutchen scorched a shot toward the middle that a diving Jeter snagged. McCutchen barely beat the throw.
"We're about to see our first replay challenge in All-Star history," Reynolds said.
That didn't happen, but Fox's replay showed Jeter's throw barely beat McCutchen.
Fox again took the natural approach as Jeter walked to the plate, accompanied by the sounds of the late Bob Sheppard, for his first at-bat. Buck, the master of silence, and his mates did not say a word.
Scott Rovak/USA TODAY Sports Derek Jeter doubles as he leads off for the AL team.
The NL players, including pitcher Wainwright, who dropped his glove on the mound, began applauding Jeter. Now, the only sound was the crowd chanting "Derek Jeter . . . Derek Jeter . . ." The chant died down, leaving one distinct voice chanting: "Over . . . rated . . . Over. . . rated."
Jeter answered by lining a double into the right-field corner.
The moment was more than symbolic. In Twilight Time, Jeter had transported his Bronx magic to the Midwest. Buck was all over it. "If he (Jeter) is going to go out on the big stage tonight, who knows where the Yankees will end up? This is exactly what we've seen from Derek for 20 years," Buck said.
A fitting tribute from a voice who has called all of Jeter's memorable October moments.

