Why Pakistan's offensive on the Taliban is a very big deal - The Washington Post
A Pakistani paramilitary soldier checks a van at a checkpoint in Hangu, a town in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. (Basit Gilani/Agence France-Presse via Getty Images)
After months of inaction, Pakistan's government authorized a significant military offensive against Taliban militants in North Waziristan, a tribal agency along the Afghan border. It may be the largest such campaign in 2009, when the military targeted the Pakistani Taliban in adjacent South Waziristan. Pakistani airstrikes over the weekend and on Monday killed about 160 suspected militants. Authorities reportedly ordered the evacuation of thousands of civilians from North Waziristan before sending in ground troops into populated areas.
The operation, named after a sword wielded by the prophet Muhammad, is receiving far less attention than the crisis in Iraq, where the advances of Islamist militants threaten to implode the whole state. But the importance of Pakistan's war with the Pakistani Taliban should not be understated. Here's why.
Pakistan may finally be confronting the enemy
For years, critics have accused Pakistan's civilian and military leaders of not doing enough to excise the cancer in their midst. In the mid-2000s, the Pakistani military even cut deals with prominent militant factions based in North Waziristan. It's clear that elements of the Taliban have, at least in the past, found sympathy and support from some wings of Pakistan's establishment, including its notorious military intelligence agency, the ISI. Last year, the recently elected government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, heeding domestic political pressures, embarked on an extended process of talks with Taliban leaders. But they bore little fruit.
The Pakistani Taliban, as explained here, is in reality an umbrella grouping of a host of militant outfits and tribal militias. The current offensive is aimed in particular at flushing out entrenched groups of foreign fighters, including, officials say, Uzbeks and ethnic Uighurs, Turkic Muslims who are fighting for a separate homeland in the far west of China.
Tired of all the bloodshed, some political parties such as the Movement for Justice, led by the charismatic former cricketer Imran Khan, have urged rapprochement with the militants and pointed accusing fingers at the role of the United States and its CIA drone program in inflaming tensions. But even Khan appears to have acquiesced to the current military operation; last week, with a clear nod from Islamabad, the United States reportedly launched its first drone strikes in more than half a year on targets in North Waziristan.
The drone strikes hit at militants belonging to the Haqqani network, a shadowy group involved in insurgent and criminal activities on both sides of the border and which is believed to have ties to the ISI. The U.S. has long pushed the Pakistanis to move against the Haqqanis in North Waziristan and while there is no current indication that Islamabad intends to target them, an operation of this scale in the Haqqanis' neighborhood presents an inflection point.
Pakistan now risks dangerous reprisal attacks
The immediate trigger for this operation was last week's glaring terror strike on the main airport in Karachi, Pakistan's biggest city and commercial hub. The attack, though eventually rebuffed, was a sign of the Pakistani Taliban's remarkable penetration throughout the country, far from its supposed home base in the rugged tribal areas along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
A Taliban spokesman promised further retaliation, including strikes on foreigners and foreign business interests. "Our success in the tribal areas could quickly turn into losses in the plains of Punjab," a senior Pakistani military official told the news agency Reuters, referring to the country's most populous province. The whole country now may have to accept being on a war footing as the offensive continues.
Pakistan's fight against militancy is a bellwether for the region
The shocking gains by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in Iraq offer something of a cautionary tale for Pakistan. Obviously, the security and political challenges differ greatly in Iraq and Pakistan, but both countries face existential reckonings. "Non-state actors pose the foremost threat to the state in Muslim countries," writes Pakistani columnist Babar Sattar in Dawn, a leading English-language daily. "And when the state derives its legitimacy from religion and so do its non-state challengers, the resulting polarization as evident in our society is a natural outcome."
For too long, argue Sattar and other critics, the Pakistani state has helped incubate extremism, at times as a tool of policy. Its crackdown on some militant groups in the wake of 9/11 and quiet tolerance of others further muddied the waters. "We have a bitter history of creating non-state actors during the 1980s and 1990s that is still haunting us," Sattar writes. "We then pursued the disastrous good-versus-bad-terrorist policy post-9/11 that produced more destruction and confusion."
Now, as the United States prepares to withdraw from neighboring Afghanistan, Pakistan has the opportunity -- and, perhaps, responsibility -- to start a new narrative. It may begin with tough action on militants in North Waziristan. But it can't end there.
Authorities lifted a curfew and opened roads in the northwest region of Pakistan on Wednesday, so that residents could move their families to safety as the military moved into areas bordering Afghanistan. The military is working to rid the area of Taliban insurgents.
Ishaan Tharoor writes about foreign affairs for The Washington Post. He previously was a Senior Editor at TIME, based first in Hong Kong and later in New York.

Pakistan airstrikes kill 25 militants, army says
By journalist Zahir Shah Shirazi and by Susanna Capelouto and Aliza Kassim, CNN
updated 12:49 PM EDT, Tue June 17, 2014
STORY HIGHLIGHTS
An army crackdown on militants in North Waziristan has killed more than 200 over six days
At least eight soldiers have died in the fighting
The military action comes after an airport attack by militants linked to the Taliban
Roads out of North Waziristan remain sealed off, and a curfew is in effect
(CNN) -- Pakistan continued its crackdown on militants in North Waziristan for a sixth day Tuesday, killing more than 20 Taliban and other fighters with airstrikes, the Pakistani army said.
Airstrikes early Tuesday killed 25 local and foreign militants at six terrorist hideouts, including a training camp and an IED-making factory, the army said in a statement. Over six days, more than 200 militants have been killed in airstrikes and ground assaults.
A woman weeps upon receiving news that a relative was killed in an attack on Jinnah International Airport in Karachi, Pakistan. Militants launched the first attack in the cargo area of the airport on June 8, leaving at least 36 people dead, including 10 militants, then struck again on June 10, targeting the Airport Security Forces academy near the airport. The Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility for both attacks.
Security personnel guard the Karachi airport on Tuesday, June 10.
Mourners arrive for funeral prayers on June 10 in Karachi.
Smoke rises from Jinnah International Airport on Monday, June 9.
Employees leave the airport on June 9 after the first attack.
Police examine bodies of security personnel at a Karachi hospital on June 9.
A police commando gives a victory sign June 9 after returning from an operation against militants at the Karachi airport.
Pakistani police display weapons seized from militants in the attack on June 9.
A Pakistani soldier holds his weapon ready at the airport Sunday, June 8. A building caught fire in the attack, but no planes were damaged, a military spokesman said.
Pakistani security officials take positions after the attack began June 8.
Pakistani rangers check ambulance staff at a boundary wall at the airport on June 8.
Pakistani security personnel arrive at the site of the airport attack on June 8.
Fire illuminates the sky above a terminal at the airport, Pakistan's largest and busiest, on June 8.
Smoke rises from a fire at the airport on June 8.
Pakistani commandos get ready to enter an airport terminal on June 8.
Soldiers approach the airport on June 8.

Attack on Pakistan airport
HIDE CAPTION
Photos: Attack on Pakistani airport
Brazen terror attacks in Pakistan
At least eight soldiers have died in the fighting, which started after an airport attack in Karachi on June 10 by the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan. The group said the attack was carried out with the Pakistani Taliban.
Dozens died during the siege of Pakistan's largest airport, including the assailants.
A curfew remains in effect, and all routes leading to North Waziristan remain sealed off with no one allowed to move out.
Northwestern Pakistan is home to loosely governed tribal areas. It's also a base for foreign fighters and a refuge for members of the Islamist militant Haqqani movement.

