Why Pakistan's offensive on the Taliban is a very big deal - The Washington Post
A Pakistani paramilitary soldier checks a van at a checkpoint in Hangu, a town in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. (Basit Gilani/Agence France-Presse via Getty Images)
After months of inaction, Pakistan's government authorized a significant military offensive against Taliban militants in North Waziristan, a tribal agency along the Afghan border. It may be the largest such campaign in 2009, when the military targeted the Pakistani Taliban in adjacent South Waziristan. Pakistani airstrikes over the weekend and on Monday killed about 160 suspected militants. Authorities reportedly ordered the evacuation of thousands of civilians from North Waziristan before sending in ground troops into populated areas.
The operation, named after a sword wielded by the prophet Muhammad, is receiving far less attention than the crisis in Iraq, where the advances of Islamist militants threaten to implode the whole state. But the importance of Pakistan's war with the Pakistani Taliban should not be understated. Here's why.
Pakistan may finally be confronting the enemy
For years, critics have accused Pakistan's civilian and military leaders of not doing enough to excise the cancer in their midst. In the mid-2000s, the Pakistani military even cut deals with prominent militant factions based in North Waziristan. It's clear that elements of the Taliban have, at least in the past, found sympathy and support from some wings of Pakistan's establishment, including its notorious military intelligence agency, the ISI. Last year, the recently elected government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, heeding domestic political pressures, embarked on an extended process of talks with Taliban leaders. But they bore little fruit.
The Pakistani Taliban, as explained here, is in reality an umbrella grouping of a host of militant outfits and tribal militias. The current offensive is aimed in particular at flushing out entrenched groups of foreign fighters, including, officials say, Uzbeks and ethnic Uighurs, Turkic Muslims who are fighting for a separate homeland in the far west of China.
Tired of all the bloodshed, some political parties such as the Movement for Justice, led by the charismatic former cricketer Imran Khan, have urged rapprochement with the militants and pointed accusing fingers at the role of the United States and its CIA drone program in inflaming tensions. But even Khan appears to have acquiesced to the current military operation; last week, with a clear nod from Islamabad, the United States reportedly launched its first drone strikes in more than half a year on targets in North Waziristan.
The drone strikes hit at militants belonging to the Haqqani network, a shadowy group involved in insurgent and criminal activities on both sides of the border and which is believed to have ties to the ISI. The U.S. has long pushed the Pakistanis to move against the Haqqanis in North Waziristan and while there is no current indication that Islamabad intends to target them, an operation of this scale in the Haqqanis' neighborhood presents an inflection point.
Pakistan now risks dangerous reprisal attacks
The immediate trigger for this operation was last week's glaring terror strike on the main airport in Karachi, Pakistan's biggest city and commercial hub. The attack, though eventually rebuffed, was a sign of the Pakistani Taliban's remarkable penetration throughout the country, far from its supposed home base in the rugged tribal areas along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
A Taliban spokesman promised further retaliation, including strikes on foreigners and foreign business interests. "Our success in the tribal areas could quickly turn into losses in the plains of Punjab," a senior Pakistani military official told the news agency Reuters, referring to the country's most populous province. The whole country now may have to accept being on a war footing as the offensive continues.
Pakistan's fight against militancy is a bellwether for the region
The shocking gains by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in Iraq offer something of a cautionary tale for Pakistan. Obviously, the security and political challenges differ greatly in Iraq and Pakistan, but both countries face existential reckonings. "Non-state actors pose the foremost threat to the state in Muslim countries," writes Pakistani columnist Babar Sattar in Dawn, a leading English-language daily. "And when the state derives its legitimacy from religion and so do its non-state challengers, the resulting polarization as evident in our society is a natural outcome."
For too long, argue Sattar and other critics, the Pakistani state has helped incubate extremism, at times as a tool of policy. Its crackdown on some militant groups in the wake of 9/11 and quiet tolerance of others further muddied the waters. "We have a bitter history of creating non-state actors during the 1980s and 1990s that is still haunting us," Sattar writes. "We then pursued the disastrous good-versus-bad-terrorist policy post-9/11 that produced more destruction and confusion."
Now, as the United States prepares to withdraw from neighboring Afghanistan, Pakistan has the opportunity -- and, perhaps, responsibility -- to start a new narrative. It may begin with tough action on militants in North Waziristan. But it can't end there.
Authorities lifted a curfew and opened roads in the northwest region of Pakistan on Wednesday, so that residents could move their families to safety as the military moved into areas bordering Afghanistan. The military is working to rid the area of Taliban insurgents.
Ishaan Tharoor writes about foreign affairs for The Washington Post. He previously was a Senior Editor at TIME, based first in Hong Kong and later in New York.

Taliban warns foreign firms as Pakistan sends in tanks
MIRANSHAH: The Pakistani Taliban on Monday warned foreign firms to leave the country and vowed to hit back against the government after tanks, troops and jets were deployed in a long-awaited offensive on their stronghold.
Pakistan's major cities braced for revenge attacks by tightening security at key installations and ordering soldiers to patrol the streets, while hospitals in the northwest prepared for casualties. The offensive in the North Waziristan tribal area, the main bastion of Taliban and al Qaeda militants, was launched a week after a brazen insurgent attack on the country's main airport in Karachi left dozens dead and marked the end of a troubled peace process.
Pakistan's allies, particular the United States, have called for an operation in the mountainous tribal territory to flush out groups like the Haqqani network, which use the area to target NATO troops in neighbouring Afghanistan. But authorities had previously held back from a final push - possibly fearful of angering warlords who attack only Afghanistan and of opening too many fronts in their decade-long battle against homegrown insurgents. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) warned foreign countries to stop doing business with the government and supporting its "apostate army".
"We warn all foreign investors, airlines and multinational corporations that they should immediately suspend their ongoing matters with Pakistan... otherwise they will be responsible for their own loss," main TTP spokesman Shahidullah Shahid said in a statement. "We hold Nawaz Sharif's government and the Punjabi establishment responsible for the loss of tribal Muslims' life and property as a result of this operation," he added, vowing to "burn your palaces" in Islamabad and Lahore.
Large numbers of troops were seen patrolling the streets of Islamabad, Lahore and Karachi. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, which borders the tribal zone, the government has declared a state of emergency in all hospitals and told them to prepare for casualties, said provincial Health Minister Shahram Khan Tarakai. Air force jets have been pounding suspected militant hideouts in the region since Sunday and have been joined by tanks and infantry engaging in heavy artillery strikes.
The military on Monday suffered its first casualties, losing six soldiers to a bomb blast at the village of Ghulam Khan, according to an official statement. Three others were injured. An AFP reporter in North Waziristan's main town of Miranshah said tanks were now stationed in the bazaar. Troops were firing intermittently in the air to warn people not to leave their homes but so far there had been no reports of close combat and there appeared to be relatively little resistance.
The militants' death toll so far stands at 177, according to the military. The figures cannot be verified independently. In the town of Bannu, 10 kilometres from the border with North Waziristan, hundreds of military trucks with mounted machine guns were on their way to the combat zone, as were oil tankers and a military field hospital. Some 62,000 people have fled the region so far for other parts of Pakistan, according to official data, with "hundreds of thousands" eventually expected to leave, said Arshad Khan, a relief official who was overseeing the construction of two refugee camps.
Thousands of others have fled across the border into Gorbaz district in Afghanistan's Khost province, said Mobarez Mohammad Zadran, a spokesman for the provincial governor. "The Afghan government has assisted with food and non-food items," he added. The military operation, named 'Zarb-e-Azb' after a sword Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) used in a battle, is the latest by the military against insurgents since Pakistan joined the US-led "war on terror" after 9/11. Several analysts said troops would likely gain control of the territory relatively quickly, partly because of an exodus of fighters across the Afghan border before the operation.
Doubts remain about whether the offensive would lead to lower levels of militant violence. Analyst Ayesha Siddiqa said the offensive appeared to target only those militant groups causing trouble for Pakistan, rather than insurgents as a whole. "You have Uzbeks sitting in Sindh and Punjab as well. Is the idea to hit them all? It's not against all terrorists, it's against a particular kind of terrorist," she said. Last week's airport siege was claimed by Uzbek militants fighting for the TTP. The attack slammed the door on a peace process with the TTP that yielded a brief ceasefire from March to April.
Amir Rana, director of the Pak Institute of Peace Studies, agreed. "This operation is not about defeating the ideology or narrative of terror. First they want to physically defeat (these militants) to regain lost territory." "The real challenge will start after this operation," he continued, adding an overhaul of police and other civil institutions was needed.
