Why Pakistan's offensive on the Taliban is a very big deal - The Washington Post
A Pakistani paramilitary soldier checks a van at a checkpoint in Hangu, a town in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. (Basit Gilani/Agence France-Presse via Getty Images)
After months of inaction, Pakistan's government authorized a significant military offensive against Taliban militants in North Waziristan, a tribal agency along the Afghan border. It may be the largest such campaign in 2009, when the military targeted the Pakistani Taliban in adjacent South Waziristan. Pakistani airstrikes over the weekend and on Monday killed about 160 suspected militants. Authorities reportedly ordered the evacuation of thousands of civilians from North Waziristan before sending in ground troops into populated areas.
The operation, named after a sword wielded by the prophet Muhammad, is receiving far less attention than the crisis in Iraq, where the advances of Islamist militants threaten to implode the whole state. But the importance of Pakistan's war with the Pakistani Taliban should not be understated. Here's why.
Pakistan may finally be confronting the enemy
For years, critics have accused Pakistan's civilian and military leaders of not doing enough to excise the cancer in their midst. In the mid-2000s, the Pakistani military even cut deals with prominent militant factions based in North Waziristan. It's clear that elements of the Taliban have, at least in the past, found sympathy and support from some wings of Pakistan's establishment, including its notorious military intelligence agency, the ISI. Last year, the recently elected government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, heeding domestic political pressures, embarked on an extended process of talks with Taliban leaders. But they bore little fruit.
The Pakistani Taliban, as explained here, is in reality an umbrella grouping of a host of militant outfits and tribal militias. The current offensive is aimed in particular at flushing out entrenched groups of foreign fighters, including, officials say, Uzbeks and ethnic Uighurs, Turkic Muslims who are fighting for a separate homeland in the far west of China.
Tired of all the bloodshed, some political parties such as the Movement for Justice, led by the charismatic former cricketer Imran Khan, have urged rapprochement with the militants and pointed accusing fingers at the role of the United States and its CIA drone program in inflaming tensions. But even Khan appears to have acquiesced to the current military operation; last week, with a clear nod from Islamabad, the United States reportedly launched its first drone strikes in more than half a year on targets in North Waziristan.
The drone strikes hit at militants belonging to the Haqqani network, a shadowy group involved in insurgent and criminal activities on both sides of the border and which is believed to have ties to the ISI. The U.S. has long pushed the Pakistanis to move against the Haqqanis in North Waziristan and while there is no current indication that Islamabad intends to target them, an operation of this scale in the Haqqanis' neighborhood presents an inflection point.
Pakistan now risks dangerous reprisal attacks
The immediate trigger for this operation was last week's glaring terror strike on the main airport in Karachi, Pakistan's biggest city and commercial hub. The attack, though eventually rebuffed, was a sign of the Pakistani Taliban's remarkable penetration throughout the country, far from its supposed home base in the rugged tribal areas along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
A Taliban spokesman promised further retaliation, including strikes on foreigners and foreign business interests. "Our success in the tribal areas could quickly turn into losses in the plains of Punjab," a senior Pakistani military official told the news agency Reuters, referring to the country's most populous province. The whole country now may have to accept being on a war footing as the offensive continues.
Pakistan's fight against militancy is a bellwether for the region
The shocking gains by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in Iraq offer something of a cautionary tale for Pakistan. Obviously, the security and political challenges differ greatly in Iraq and Pakistan, but both countries face existential reckonings. "Non-state actors pose the foremost threat to the state in Muslim countries," writes Pakistani columnist Babar Sattar in Dawn, a leading English-language daily. "And when the state derives its legitimacy from religion and so do its non-state challengers, the resulting polarization as evident in our society is a natural outcome."
For too long, argue Sattar and other critics, the Pakistani state has helped incubate extremism, at times as a tool of policy. Its crackdown on some militant groups in the wake of 9/11 and quiet tolerance of others further muddied the waters. "We have a bitter history of creating non-state actors during the 1980s and 1990s that is still haunting us," Sattar writes. "We then pursued the disastrous good-versus-bad-terrorist policy post-9/11 that produced more destruction and confusion."
Now, as the United States prepares to withdraw from neighboring Afghanistan, Pakistan has the opportunity -- and, perhaps, responsibility -- to start a new narrative. It may begin with tough action on militants in North Waziristan. But it can't end there.
Authorities lifted a curfew and opened roads in the northwest region of Pakistan on Wednesday, so that residents could move their families to safety as the military moved into areas bordering Afghanistan. The military is working to rid the area of Taliban insurgents.
Ishaan Tharoor writes about foreign affairs for The Washington Post. He previously was a Senior Editor at TIME, based first in Hong Kong and later in New York.

Thousands flee for Afghanistan after military operation in Pakistan - The Hindu
More than 2,000 civilians have fled the Pakistani military's offensive against the Taliban stronghold in the north-west of the country, pouring over the border into Afghanistan, officials said on Tuesday.
The army on Sunday launched an offensive in the tribal region of North Waziristan, after years of international pressure to move against militants.
"At first we were suspicious that they might be insurgents in civilian clothes that could post a threat to us," said Sahira Sharif, an Afghan parliamentarian from the eastern province of Khost.
"But when we visited them, we were sure now that they are genuine refugees," she said.
Her province, along the border, has seen around 2,000 refugees, officials said, and the number has been increasing.
"The government is conducting a survey and our people are helping them with food and shelter," she said.
An insurgent attack on Karachi international airport this month that killed scores was a key factor in the decision to launch the military's offensive, according to officials and analysts.
"Despite the international pressure, the military never took the fight to the militants before," said Afghanistan's deputy interior minister, General Mohammad Ayoub Salangi.
"Now that they face direct and deadly threats from them, they have launched the operations." Afghan authorities have always said that terrorist sanctuaries along the border in Pakistan were the main reason for the continuing deadly insurgency in Afghanistan.
The jihad in Afghanistan is led by the Taliban's Mullah Omar, as well as the Haqqani network, which is based over the border in North Waziristan.
In that region, there are several foreign jihadist groups, including the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, involved in some of the deadliest attacks on both sides of the border.
The military says the operation, which has killed nearly 200 militants since Sunday, is not affecting any civilian areas, but the locals are still fleeing in droves.
"More than 600 families or 2,000 people, mostly from North Waziristan, have come to Gurbuz and Tani districts due to military operations launched there," said Abdul Wahed Pathan, deputy governor of Afghanistan's Khost province.
"We have requested the government and NGOs to assist us to provide first aid like shelter and food for them," Mr. Pathan said.
Mokhles Afghan, an official from the neighbouring Paktika province, said that some of the refugees had gone to Khost through Paktika.
"We do not have any refugees living here but they are still coming from the North Waziristan," he said.
"The refugees decided not to stay in our province because of the harsh summer." "Afghanistan takes this as a humanitarian responsibility," said Shekib Mostaghni, spokesman for the Afghan Foreign Ministry. "We will try to find aid for them." The largely porous border is no stranger to the flow of refugees, but usually travelling in the opposite direction. For more than three decades, Pakistan has been home to millions of Afghan refugees fleeing conflict at home.
The invasion of Afghanistan by Soviet Union in 1979, the civil war between 1992 and 1996, and the Taliban regime from 1996 to 2001, sent waves of Afghan refugees into Pakistan and Iran.
Since the 2001 US-led invasion of Afghanistan, some 3.8 million people have returned home. But there are still around 2.9 million Afghan refugees in Pakistan and some 1.9 million in Iran, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees reported in 2012.
Some Afghans fear the Taliban will also flee over the border to escape Pakistan's military. But the officials said measures are in place to stop them crossing over.
"The refugees who have stayed in Khost won't be a threat to Afghans. Our security forces are active in the area, not only in Khost but across the country," said General Ahmad Jan, the spokesman for 203 Military Corps, based in neighbouring Gardez city.
"Security-wise we have taken all measures so that the insurgents could not enter our soil," deputy interior minister Salangi said.
"We believe that our intelligence agency will work seriously in this regard." Ahmad Jan alleged the Taliban fighters have always trained on the other side of border to launch insurgency attacks in Afghanistan.
"But I believe the refugees are not the ones who will commit an attack," he said.
