Why Pakistan's offensive on the Taliban is a very big deal - The Washington Post
A Pakistani paramilitary soldier checks a van at a checkpoint in Hangu, a town in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. (Basit Gilani/Agence France-Presse via Getty Images)
After months of inaction, Pakistan's government authorized a significant military offensive against Taliban militants in North Waziristan, a tribal agency along the Afghan border. It may be the largest such campaign in 2009, when the military targeted the Pakistani Taliban in adjacent South Waziristan. Pakistani airstrikes over the weekend and on Monday killed about 160 suspected militants. Authorities reportedly ordered the evacuation of thousands of civilians from North Waziristan before sending in ground troops into populated areas.
The operation, named after a sword wielded by the prophet Muhammad, is receiving far less attention than the crisis in Iraq, where the advances of Islamist militants threaten to implode the whole state. But the importance of Pakistan's war with the Pakistani Taliban should not be understated. Here's why.
Pakistan may finally be confronting the enemy
For years, critics have accused Pakistan's civilian and military leaders of not doing enough to excise the cancer in their midst. In the mid-2000s, the Pakistani military even cut deals with prominent militant factions based in North Waziristan. It's clear that elements of the Taliban have, at least in the past, found sympathy and support from some wings of Pakistan's establishment, including its notorious military intelligence agency, the ISI. Last year, the recently elected government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, heeding domestic political pressures, embarked on an extended process of talks with Taliban leaders. But they bore little fruit.
The Pakistani Taliban, as explained here, is in reality an umbrella grouping of a host of militant outfits and tribal militias. The current offensive is aimed in particular at flushing out entrenched groups of foreign fighters, including, officials say, Uzbeks and ethnic Uighurs, Turkic Muslims who are fighting for a separate homeland in the far west of China.
Tired of all the bloodshed, some political parties such as the Movement for Justice, led by the charismatic former cricketer Imran Khan, have urged rapprochement with the militants and pointed accusing fingers at the role of the United States and its CIA drone program in inflaming tensions. But even Khan appears to have acquiesced to the current military operation; last week, with a clear nod from Islamabad, the United States reportedly launched its first drone strikes in more than half a year on targets in North Waziristan.
The drone strikes hit at militants belonging to the Haqqani network, a shadowy group involved in insurgent and criminal activities on both sides of the border and which is believed to have ties to the ISI. The U.S. has long pushed the Pakistanis to move against the Haqqanis in North Waziristan and while there is no current indication that Islamabad intends to target them, an operation of this scale in the Haqqanis' neighborhood presents an inflection point.
Pakistan now risks dangerous reprisal attacks
The immediate trigger for this operation was last week's glaring terror strike on the main airport in Karachi, Pakistan's biggest city and commercial hub. The attack, though eventually rebuffed, was a sign of the Pakistani Taliban's remarkable penetration throughout the country, far from its supposed home base in the rugged tribal areas along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
A Taliban spokesman promised further retaliation, including strikes on foreigners and foreign business interests. "Our success in the tribal areas could quickly turn into losses in the plains of Punjab," a senior Pakistani military official told the news agency Reuters, referring to the country's most populous province. The whole country now may have to accept being on a war footing as the offensive continues.
Pakistan's fight against militancy is a bellwether for the region
The shocking gains by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in Iraq offer something of a cautionary tale for Pakistan. Obviously, the security and political challenges differ greatly in Iraq and Pakistan, but both countries face existential reckonings. "Non-state actors pose the foremost threat to the state in Muslim countries," writes Pakistani columnist Babar Sattar in Dawn, a leading English-language daily. "And when the state derives its legitimacy from religion and so do its non-state challengers, the resulting polarization as evident in our society is a natural outcome."
For too long, argue Sattar and other critics, the Pakistani state has helped incubate extremism, at times as a tool of policy. Its crackdown on some militant groups in the wake of 9/11 and quiet tolerance of others further muddied the waters. "We have a bitter history of creating non-state actors during the 1980s and 1990s that is still haunting us," Sattar writes. "We then pursued the disastrous good-versus-bad-terrorist policy post-9/11 that produced more destruction and confusion."
Now, as the United States prepares to withdraw from neighboring Afghanistan, Pakistan has the opportunity -- and, perhaps, responsibility -- to start a new narrative. It may begin with tough action on militants in North Waziristan. But it can't end there.
Authorities lifted a curfew and opened roads in the northwest region of Pakistan on Wednesday, so that residents could move their families to safety as the military moved into areas bordering Afghanistan. The military is working to rid the area of Taliban insurgents.
Ishaan Tharoor writes about foreign affairs for The Washington Post. He previously was a Senior Editor at TIME, based first in Hong Kong and later in New York.

Pakistan Is Fighting Back Against Militants. Here's Why It May Not Win. - India Real Time - WSJ
Pakistani army troops in military vehicles in Karachi after an operation launched against the Taliban in North Waziristan on Monday.
Associated Press
After many rumors and false starts, and after years of requests from U.S. officials,Pakistan has finally launched a major military offensive in North Waziristan, ground zero for militancy in that country.
Extremist organizations use North Waziristan as a base for attacks on U.S. forces in Afghanistan and to mount assaults on targets in Pakistan. The remnants of al-Qaeda central, including perhaps supreme leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, have a presence there, as do Uzbek extremist groups, one of which claimed responsibility for the recent Karachi airport attack. Even Faisal Shahzad, the Pakistani-American who attempted to blow up Times Square in 2010,received training in North Waziristan. This tribal area is a magnet for militants local and foreign.
But while the airstrikes and ground efforts in North Waziristan have been needed, it's not clear whether this effort can inflict a decisive blow against militancy in Pakistan. Here are four questions that underscore how conditions in Pakistan may be stacked against success:
1. Will there be a critical mass of militants left to fight?
The Pakistani government has been hinting at the likelihood of an operation since January. In the five months since then, Pakistani Taliban and other militants have had ample opportunity to escape to other tribal areas in Pakistan or even into Afghanistan.
2. Will international forces in Afghanistan be able to assist?
Pakistani officials have asked international forces in neighboring Afghanistan to help prevent militants from crossing the porous border into that country. But with the foreign presence in Afghanistan on track to diminish over the next few months, it's not clear whether foreign troops will have the capacity to offer such assistance--and, if they do, they'll need help from Afghan security forces, which have an uneasy relationship with the Pakistani security establishment.
3. Will this operation target militants across the board or only the Pakistani Taliban and its allies?
Pakistan has long distinguished between "good" and "bad" militants: It considers the Pakistani Taliban, which targets the Pakistani state, "bad"; the Afghan Taliban and Haqqani network, which strike Afghanistan and U.S. and Indian interests in that country, are "good." All of these groups are based in North Waziristan, but if Islamabad targets only the "bad" militants, the operation's success will be limited.
4. Will this operation include associated efforts outside Waziristan?
Militancy in Pakistan is no longer restricted to tribal areas. Thousands of militants have set up shop in cities. In the absence of stepped-up law enforcement efforts and other civilian-led security missions in urban areas, a Waziristan-only operation cannot root out militancy on a national level.
And that bodes poorly for the ultimate prospects of this much-needed offensive.
Michael Kugelman is senior associate for South Asia at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. He is on Twitter: @michaelkugelman.
