San Antonio Spurs' grinding halt - TrueHoop Blog - ESPN
The
San Antonio Spurs	 are great at exploiting an advantage that was hiding in plain sight. Sometimes it's a simple discovery, like how 3-pointers from the corner are just a bit easier than other shots from behind the arc. Sometimes there's more nuance to their edge, like how
Manu Ginobili	 creates these open corner 3s by leaping out of bounds for his passing angle. It's not a natural thing to jump out of bounds with the ball in your hands. Or it wasn't, until the Spurs made the hammer set a normal way of doing business.
Jumping out of bounds might go against basic basketball instinct, but this team has thrived with the counterintuitive approach that only later looks obvious. The 2014 title winners pulled off another pioneering coup in playing their best guys significantly less than anyone else would.
Tony Parker	led the Spurs this year with 29.4 minutes per game.
Tim Duncan led the team in total minutes with 2,158, nearly a thousand fewer than what his Western Conference Finals opponent Kevin Durant logged (3,122). By the end of that series, Durant had played 1,192 minutes more than Duncan -- roughly the equivalent of 25 total NBA games.
Perhaps the minutes difference factors into two of the most memorable plays from that series. Kevin Durant slipped and fell with the season on the line. Old Man Riverwalk sunk a huge basket over a lively Thunder double-team. The Spurs went on to trounce Miami in possibly the most lopsided Finals of all time. There were many reasons why this happened, but San Antonio's team certainly looked fresh at a time in the season where teams are worn down. In victory, the Spurs are an object lesson in the value of rest. It's not just about winning in the postseason, either. The Spurs had the best regular-season record with this approach, too.
So will all the other teams follow suit? Not so fast, when you take into account that stars have to buy into a program where minutes are rationed. We have a system in place that rewards the individual for overworking himself. The more you play, the more likely you are to win All-NBA, All-Star, All-Defense and MVP votes.
It's not an entirely illogical bias, either. When weighing who should get an individual award between two equally qualified candidates, it makes sense to lean on minutes played. Parker and
Kawhi Leonard	 are slight exceptions to the rule, in that they garnered second-team All-NBA and second-team All-Defense, respectively. For the most part, it's difficult for a guy playing fewer than 30 minutes to get proper recognition.
Take Ginobili, who, statistically, has an argument over
Kobe Bryant	 on a per-minute basis. Now, before you throw the laptop out the window, keep in mind that I'm not saying Manu was better than Kobe. I'm just saying that you'd expect more than two All-Star appearances from a guy whose advanced stats (offensive rating, win shares per 48 minutes) compare favorably to an all-time great.
Low minute totals helped keep Ginobili healthy, but that also diminished his reputation relative to his skill set. His 2006-07 season might have been his finest, but a 16.5 scoring average looks unimpressive on its face. Ginobili is one of the best passing wings ever to play, but he's never averaged five assists per game.
That's the real killer when it comes to playing fewer minutes: Your overall numbers look mingy. Chris "Birdman" Andersen killed
Jamal Crawford　in the advanced stats, but Crawford scored 18.6 points per game and Birdman scored 6.6. It's no wonder the former won the Sixth Man of the Year award.
As John Hollinger used to note, the Most Improved Player award is often really just a reflection of which good player finally got minutes. Per minute, there isn't much statistical difference between 2011-12
Paul George	 and 2012-13 MIP-winning Paul George. Indiana's rising star saw a 1,014 minute increase in 2012-13, which made his raw stats look better. More minutes means more credit.
[+] Enlarge	Robert Mayer/USA TODAY SportsWith a bench as deep as the Spurs', Gregg Popovich had no trouble managing his team's minutes.
The Spurs don't care if we ignore their individual greatness on account of low minute totals. So what if early-season criticism of Leonard's progress was mostly based on minutes played? He won Finals MVP in the end. They've found this awesome market inefficiency with a "less is more" approach and are just fine if other players can't trade accolades for effectiveness.
But since the Spurs are showing us what works, perhaps we should learn from them. If the goal of these awards is to acknowledge great basketball, then we could stand to lean towards quality over quantity.
It might also be wise to look at how other incentives fight against great basketball. The Spurs are famous for not subjecting older players to back-to-back games. For this approach, Gregg Popovich paid -- quite literally in the form of a $250,000 fine for the Spurs -- when San Antonio excused its best players from a nationally televised game versus the Heat. The NBA's a business, and Popovich's choice worked against those interests. In that context, the fine made sense, but it also reflected a subversive truth: The Spurs are giving us the best possible team basketball while working against what basketball is used to being.
Basketball is used to being a place where stars are perpetually present for the 82-game grind. It's a game that sells its heroes, and for those heroes to be heroic, they must be impervious to the fatigue of 82. The problem is, this isn't realistic. There are more games than means for physically coping. Logging 40 minutes per outing might help with awards voting returns, but returns diminish on the court. Maybe it's time to give more credit to the guy who plays less.

Tim Duncan 'at the top' with NBA greats after 5th title
Spurs forward Tim Duncan holds the Larry O'Brien Trophy, the fifth he's won in 17 seasons, after Game 5 of the NBA Finals on Sunday night.(Photo: Soobum Im, USA TODAY Sports)
SAN ANTONIO -- Something was tugging at Tim Duncan.
The San Antonio Spurs big man with the bigger smile stood on stage inside the AT&T Center late Sunday night, his fifth championship finally in his grasps and his two beautiful children in his arms. The tug came once, then twice, then a third time, with Duncan ignoring the prodding from below as if it were the 2013 NBA Finals nightmare that had finally disappeared into the deep.
But Bill Russell, naturally, wouldn't be denied. The legendary big man pulled on Duncan's sweaty jersey until he finally turned around, and two of the game's greats embraced in a shared moment of mutual respect. And then, the former Boston Celtics great whose record of 11 titles will likely never be beat made the most poignant and powerful observation of the night about what this all meant for Duncan's place in history among the game's greatest bigs.
"Right up there at the top," Russell told USA TODAY Sports.
He is, indeed.
SPURS: Could be back next year
GAME 5: Spurs roll to a fifth title
Everywhere you turned in this joyous place, there was somebody marveling about his part in this incredible Spurs play. How does a 38-year-old who looked so close to his end just a few years ago pull off such a stunt, not only finishing the championship run that they'd started back when Bill Clinton was in office, but also playing the same epicenter role that he did back then?
It's not just the number of titles, of course, but how he got them -- never in back-to-back fashion, always requiring a restart when years would go by in between without a ring, a long stretch of success that puts him in a class all his own for all of time. It had been seven years since their last, and one torturous year since they saw it slip away in Miami and left everyone wondering if there was any way they could get back.
VIDEO: Spurs' legacy hits new peak
USA TODAY Sports' Sam Amick and Jeff Zillgitt break down the NBA Finals, which resulted in Gregg Popovich's Spurs winning a fifth title, and what's next for the Spurs and Heat.
David Robinson was there at the start, when he so graciously mentored this stoic sensation who had gone from the Virgin Islands to Wake Forest to the middle of Texas. He was there at the end, too, hugging Duncan at center court as the black and white confetti fell before making it clear that his old friend will go down as one of the best there ever was.
"I mean he was already at the top (among all-time big men)," Robinson, who retired at the age of 37, told USA TODAY Sports. "You couldn't argue with his credentials before today, and it's going to be even harder now. He's clearly one of the best players to ever play.
"I don't know that you can put anybody in his category for sustained excellence. It's unbelievable. It was a progression. We've grown it from being 20-61 (actually 20-62 in 1996-97) to now our fifth championship, and I feel like I was a part of that so that's a lot of fun."
GALLERY: Look back at the 2014 NBA Finals
Robinson said he and Duncan never spoke about the 2013 Finals and how bad they hurt. There was, Robinson said, simply no need to.
"I knew it stung them," Robinson said. "It hurt me. I wasn't even playing, and it hurt me. For them to come back and to play the way they played in this Finals speaks volume about what kind of guys these guys are. No team gives up a championship without a fight, so it just shows you what kind of guys we've got here."
Duncan wasn't dominant in the Finals, averaging 15.4 points and 10.0 rebounds in all, but he didn't have to be. He had to be there like he always is, captaining the defense that allowed just 91.6 points per game in the Finals while serving as such a vital part of the free-flowing offense that outscored the Heat by an average margin of 18 points in their wins. How one-sided was this? The Spurs set a new NBA record for point differential in the Finals. And throughout, Duncan certainly didn't look like someone who needed to call it quits anytime soon.
The wait now begins to see if Duncan is at all tempted to drop the silver-and-black mike after putting on an incredible show. Duncan, who has a player option for next season worth $10.3 million, was evasive afterwards when asked about his future. This was about the moment, one that he wasn't sure would ever come back when they all came so close a year before.
"Very special," Duncan said. "To do it at home, to do it with my kids and my family and my friends here made it so much more special. Just a great experience, and a great experience for them.
"For whatever reason, it is sweeter than any other, whether it be because of the time frame, because I'm coming towards the end of my career, because I can have these two (daughter Sydney and son Draven) here and really remember it and enjoy the experience, all of those things make it that much more special."
VIDEO: Fans celebrate in San Antonio
Huge crowds of fans poured into the streets of San Antonio on Sunday night after the San Antonio Spurs won the NBA Championship. The Spurs beat the Miami Heat 104-87, wrapping up the NBA Finals four games to one. AP
So, Duncan was asked, wouldn't it be tough to walk away from a team that keeps beating Father Time?
"Yeah," he said before growing suspect about the question. "I don't know. I'm guessing you're leading me into a question that I'm not going to answer, so I'll just go ahead and avoid that one."
Regardless of what happens next, they all agreed that this was the sweetest one yet. Not only because they exacted revenge against the Heat, but because the last one is always the best.
"Each one is always sweeter," Spurs owner Peter Holt said as he stood amid the postgame celebration on the court. "If you're in this business and you don't think each one is sweeter, you're crazy. Nah, it's wonderful."
Even more so for Tony Parker. He had come into the league as a score-first point guard from France, a 19-year-old talent who eventually evolved with coach Gregg Popovich's stern guidance and who became so close with Duncan along the way. Parker had promised Duncan that they would get back to this magical place before their time together was over, and here they were. Incredibly. Tirelessly. Age-lessly. Again.
"It's awesome man, just awesome," Parker told USA TODAY Sports. "I'm happy for (Duncan). We did it together, and we've been together for so long. It's the sweetest one, by far. It's unbelievable what he has been able to accomplish...Five rings speaks for itself"

