City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

Nicki Minaj Says She Didn't Diss Iggy Azalea: I've Told Her She Should Be Proud of Her Success | E! Online
Kevin Winter/Getty Images for BET
Don't twist Nicki Minaj's words...
The "Pills n Potions" rapper took to Twitter this morning to speak her mind regarding the recent allegations that she dissed Iggy Azalea in her BET Awards acceptance speech on Sunday.
Minaj, who won for Best Female Hip-Hop Artist, didn't mention the "Fancy" singer when she took the stage, but certainly threw shade on females in the business who don't write their own material.
"The media puts words in my mouth all the time and this is no different," she told fans. "I will always take a stance on women writing b/c I believe in us! I believe we're smart enough to write down our own thoughts and perspective, just like the men do. I've been saying this for 5 YEARS."
PHOTOS: See what all the stars wore on the red carpet at the 2014 BET Awards
The 31-year-old musician added, "I've congratulated Iggy on the success of Fancy, publicly. She should be very proud of that. All the women nominated should b proud. That will never change my desire to motivate women to write. Our voices have to be heard. I hope I inspire up & coming females to do that."
So what did Minaj say at the awards show that got everyone's feathers ruffled?
"I thank God that I've been placed in a position to do something and represent women in a culture that is so male-driven," the outspoken star told the audience.
"What I want the world to know about Nicki Minaj is, that when you hear Nicki Minaj spit, Nicki Minaj wrote it."
PHOTOS: Nicki Minaj's sexiest Instagrams
RELATED VIDEOS:
