City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

The Everything Index: Nicki vs. Iggy, Shia LaBeouf vs. Sanity | Culture News | Rolling Stone
Iggy Azalea and Nicki Minaj.
Kevin Winter/Getty Images for BET
It's time for another installment of Rolling Stone's "Everything Index," where we rank the week's pop-culture power players and desperately attempt to fill the gaping chasm in our souls.
The Everything Index: Dave Chappelle and Hidden Dongs Dominate
We've crunched the numbers to come up with this week's Top 20, a list that features a catfight between Nicki and Iggy, a Supreme Court decision with far-reaching implications and actors chasing homeless men around Times Square. Plus, killer storms and an attachment that allows you to have sex with your iPad...see, now you've got two reasons to never leave your apartment.
Here are our pop-culture power rankings for the week ahead.
1. Nicki Minaj Disses Iggy Azalea: H.B.I.C. Minaj goes after Australian import at BET Awards. Like all good feuds, this one features fake accents, cultural appropriation and plenty of booty padding.
2. Belgium: Standing in the way of the U.S. at the World Cup. Thanks for the Jan van Eyck and the Jean-Claude Van Damme, but today, you are our enemy.
3. Erykah Badu's Looking for Love: NYC reporter accosted on-air by Badu, who was just looking for a kiss. At least this time she was wearing clothes.
4. The Fleshlight Launchpad: Sex toy pioneers finally make it possible to fuck your iPad. That'll show Flappy Bird who's boss.
5. Hobby Lobby: Supreme Court says Christian arts-and-crafts chain doesn't have to abide by Affordable Care Act mandate to provide employees with emergency contraception. Guess they'll just have to use crochet hooks now.
6. Shia LaBeouf Goes Nuts in Times Square: For the last time; no, he doesn't like stand up comedy
7. Nathan For You: Comedy Central's sleeper hit kicks off its second season tonight. Based on the trailer alone, "Dumb Starbucks" is only like the 12th most brilliant thing you'll see.
8. Daniel Radcliffe Walking 12 Dogs While Smoking a Cigarette: Our spirit animal.
9. The Derecho: Wind storm pummels the Midwest, heads towards East Coast. Fine, we'll learn Spanish!
10. Seinfeld turns 25: Pilot episode of seminal sitcom aired a quarter-century ago. We now feel as old as Jerry and the gang were on the show...which was, what, 37? 42?
11. Lowell's "I Love You Money:" Canadian singer supercharges our summer with her saccharine single. Is it an anti-consumerist anthem or a pro-capitalist smash? Hey! Woo! Who cares!
12. Dolly Parton Playing "Yakety Sax:" Oddly self-referential, strangely comforting. Dolly contains multitudes.
13. The Skeleton Twins: New trailer for Kristen Wiig/Bill Hader dramedy leaves us feeling all the feelings. The routine to Starship's "Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now" alone is worth the price of admission.
14. The Civil Rights Act: Landmark legislation turns 50 tomorrow. Once upon a time, racism was a thing that existed in this country, kids.
15. Jason Kidd: Brooklyn trades soda-spilling coach to Milwaukee for a pair of draft picks. Now who will play DWI for the Nets?
16. Chromeo's "Mallard Air" Video: Dynamic Duo film in-flight safety video for "start-up airline." It's probably a joke, but we're too bored to find out.
17. Transformers Box Office: Did Michael Bay's latest explogasm really make $100 million during its opening weekend? Does it make us any smarter if it didn't?
18. July: In New York City, the air is fragrant with rotting garbage, vomit and cadaver asshole.
19. Beyonce Tops Forbes List: Queen Bey reigns on the Celebrity 100. At this point, there's only one frontier left for her to conquer: Knowles/Clinton 2016!
20. Earth to Echo: We liked its working title better: Not E.T.
