City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

Did Nicki Minaj Shade Iggy Azalea During Her BET Awards Acceptance Speech? The Internet Thinks So! | E! Online
Kevin Winter/Getty Images for BET
Nicki Minaj didn't mention Iggy Azalea by name when she accepted her fifth BET Award for Best Female Hip Hop Artist, but according to the internet, her trash talking was directed at the up-and-coming rapper. BuzzFeed, Gawker and Vulture were just three of the websites to accuse the "Pills n Potions" rapper of dissing her fellow nominee, who has been widely rumored to use ghostwriters on her album.
"This is always very, very emotional for me. Because this is my fifth year winning this award and I don't take it for granted. I really don't," the 31-year-old musician said during her rambling acceptance speech. "I thank god that I've been placed in a position to do something and represent women in a culture that is so male-driven. And I want you to know this: I want you to know that I have an album, The Pink Print, that's coming out before the year ends. That's not a plug, but it's a plug! But my point is, what I want the world to know about Nicki Minaj is, that when you hear Nicki Minaj spit, Nicki Minaj wrote it."
After posing like a diva, she continued, "No, no, no shade. No, no, no shade. I used to sit in the studio with [Lil Wayne] and I would literally take sometimes three, four days to write a verse. And he was like, 'No, you can't be taking days to write no verse, you gotta write your verse right here in the studio.' And that's why I love him 'til this day. Because he pushed me to push my pen, and I'm still one of the only emcees that's out here spitting metaphors and making you think. And I really don't even care if I get my credit or if I don't. I don't look at myself as a female rapper, because I know what I do. And I thank my fans because they...They might cut me off. This is so big. At one time black people was getting blacked out on the TV now they own their own network. This is big. This is different."
NEWS: LOL! Chris Rock's best jokes at the 2014 BET Awards
Minaj then dropped another shocker. "I just wanna say that, the other day, literally I didn't tell anyone this, I really thought I was about to die. Like I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even wanna call the ambulance because I thought well if I call the ambulance, it's gonna be on TMZ. And I would rather sit there and die. And it made me realize, I don't care what anybody gotta say. I'ma do me. I'ma do me. And I hope and pray that BET continues to honor authenticity. And that's all I'm gonna say about that," the former American Idol judge said. "Stephen I love you. It is what it is. Young Money 'til the death of me."
Azalea, who performed "No Mediocre" with T.I., has yet to comment on Minaj's speech.
PHOTOS: See what all the stars wore on the red carpet at the 2014 BET Awards
RELATED VIDEOS:
