City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

Here are the BET Award winners
Mon, 30 Jun 2014 11:46 AM
Davido (C) accepts Best International Act: Africa onstage during the BET AWARDS '14 alongside Mafikizolo (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images for BET)
It was a night full of electrifying performances, emotional speeches and unforgettable moments at the BET Awards '14, also known as the "Black World Cup," according to hilarious host Chris Rock ,which aired live from the Nokia Theatre at L.A. LIVE on Sunday, June 29.<>
Pharrell Williams opened the show with an energetic rendition of Come Get It Bae surrounded by a bevy of cheerleaders, and was joined by surprise performer and fellow Virginia native, the amazing Missy Elliott, who brought the crowd to their feet to Pass That Dutch. Williams became a familiar face on the stage after winning both Best Male R&B/Pop Artist and Video of the Year, and again coming on to present music icon Lionel Richie with the Lifetime Achievement Award. Young Money and Beyonce took home the most trophies with three awards, as did acclaimed film 12 Years A Slave which swept the film award categories. Pharrell Williams and August Alsina each won two awards. Nigerian star Davido beat out Tiwa Savage, Mafikizolo and took home the Best International Act: Africa on the night.
The tribute to Richie included a presentation of classics Hello and Still by John Legend and a pulsating rendition of Brick House by Ledisi. Richie showed off his own skills when he sat at the piano and serenaded the audience with "Easy," then got the crowd dancing along to All Night Long.
Chris Brown made a triumphant return to the "BET Awards" stage that drew a standing ovation. He proved he hasn't missed a beat delivering an incredible performance of Loyal, which was amped up even more with appearances by Lil Wayne, Tyga and Travis Barker.
Always one to get the crowd going, Lil Wayne got the mosh pit popping with Krazy and Believe Me. Jennifer Hudson showed off her incredibly powerful pipes during a performance of Walk It Out and debut of her new single It's Your World as a disco roller derby swirled around her. One of today's hottest rising stars, Jhene Aiko joined John Legend on stage for one of the most impressive performances of the evening.
Usher performed an action-packed medley of his biggest hits, including Yeah! Confessions, Caught Up and Love In This Club, which drew a standing ovation. Nicki Minaj gave an dramatic Alice In Wonderland-inspired performance of Chi-Raq and Pills N Potions, filling the stage with oversized mushrooms, a contemporary dancer and a white rabbit.
T.I. showed off his lyrical prowess with No Mediocre, while Iggy Azalea wowed the crowd with her skills with her hit single Fancy.
A taped performance of Beyonce and Jay-Z of "Partition" capped the epic night, which delivered on its promise to be the hottest ticket in town. The "BET Awards" '14 drew the biggest names in music, entertainment and sports, with appearances by Gabrielle Union, Keke Palmer, Regina Hall, Larenz Tate, Bow Wow, Keshia Chante, Eva Marcille, Terrence Jenkins, Keyshia Cole, Mike Tyson, Nick Cannon, Zendaya, DeSean Jackson, Boris Kodjoe, Gary Owen, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Chadwick Boseman, Tyrese and Nate Parker.
Here is the complete list of BET Awards '14 winners:
Best International Act: Africa
Davido (Nigeria)
Best International Act: UK
Krept & Konan
Best Female R&B/Pop Artist
Beyonce
Best Male R&B/Pop Artist
Pharrell Williams
Best Group
Young Money
Best Collaboration
Beyonce f/ JAY Z - Drunk In Love
Best Male Hip Hop Artist
Drake
Best Female Hip Hop Artist
Nicki Minaj
Video of the Year
Pharrell Williams - Happy
Video Director of the Year
Hype Williams
Best New Artist
August Alsina
Best Gospel Artist
Tamela Mann
Best Actress
Lupita Nyong'o
Best Actor
Chiwetel Ejiofor
YoungStars Award
KeKe Palmer
Best Movie
12 Years a Slave
Subway Sportswoman of the Year
Serena Williams
Subway Sportsman of the Year
Kevin Durant
Coca-Cola Viewers' Choice Award
August Alsina f/ Trinidad Jame$ - I Luv This
Centric Award
Jhene Aiko - The Worst
FANdemonium Award
Beyonce
