City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

BET Awards 2014 Draws 7.9 Million Viewers | Billboard
Network's second annual BET Experience at L.A. Live fan fest posts 10 percent attendee boost.
According to figures released by BET Networks, its annual BET Awards drew 7.9 million total viewers, up from 2013's 7.6 million. Propelling viewership of BET Awards 14 with first-time host Chris Rock were performances and appearances by Pharrell Williams, Chris Brown, Nicki Minaj, John Legend, August Alsina and lifetime achievement award honoree Lionel Richie.
BET's second annual BET Experience at L.A. Live (June 27-29) presented by Coca-Cola attracted 112, 488 attendees, a 10 percent increase over last year's inaugural effort. Delivering on their promise to expand the fan fest's free attractions, BET and partner/L.A. Live developer and operator AEG Live treated attendees to an overwhelming menu of interactive events. These ranged from such returning components as "106 & Park" live tapings presented by Target and the Sprite-sponsored, live-streamed celebrity basketball game (including Snoop Dogg, Chris Brown, Justin Bieber). New to the Experience fold: a gospel choir showcase hosted by Hezekiah Walker and SneakerCon, a traveling event for sneaker connoisseurs to buy, sell and trade popular collectibles.
Staged outside last year, most of the fan fest events took place inside the neighboring Los Angeles Convention Center -- a welcome respite from the heat. Among the more popular attractions was the Music Matters new talent showcase sponsored by Nissan. Featured artists included Mack Wilds, Sevyn Streeter, LeCrae and Elle Varner. In fact, music was a key Experience component. Television and radio personality Big Tigger hosted Acoustically Speaking, a series of performances and interviews with artists Stacy Barthe, Talib Kweli and others. The Centric Certified stage welcomed newcomer Sebastian Mikael plus Jagged Edge, Eric Benet, Calvin Richardson and Liv Warfield. And hot producer DJ Mustard hosted a kickoff BET Experience concert on Saturday featuring artists Nipsey Hussle and Tinashe.
One of the more riveting (and should have been mandatory) offerings was Genius Talks, illuminating Q&A's between tastemakers from TV, film, books, music and sports. Hosted by rapper MC Lyte on Saturday and "Access Hollywood" anchor Shaun Robinson on Sunday, the match-ups -- presented by RushCard -- included: Bill Withers interviewed by actor Hill Harper, L.A. Clippers point guard Chris Paul and Snoop Dogg interviewed by ESPN's Jemele Hill, "Think Like a Man Too" producer Will Packer interviewed by actor Boris Kodjoe and Mike Tyson interviewed by Common.
Rounding out the fan fest were lifestyle and wellness seminars, a dance competition with MC Hammer as a judge, a BET Awards exhibit and youth educational program at the Grammy Museum and an indie film festival at the Regal Theatre that culminated with a showing of Prince's "Purple Rain."
Anchoring each evening were concerts at L.A. Live's Staples Center, complemented by late-night shows at sister venue Club Nokia. The Billboard BoxScore attendance and gross dollars from each of the Staples shows are as follows: Maxwell and Jill Scott (June 27; attendance 12,167, gross $794,724); OutKast/A$AP Rocky/Rick Ross (June 28; 12,590, $830,324) and Mary J. Blige/Trey Songz/Jennifer Hudson (June 29; 11,918, $657,158).
