City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

Chris Brown carried from nightclub after BET awards
Chris Brown
(Photo by Maury Phillips/BET/Getty Images for BET)
Chris Brown has been caught on camera stumbling out of a nightclub following the BET Awards with three associates attempting to hold him upright.
The singer, who was released from jail at the beginning of June, made his comeback on Sunday night by performing at the glitzy awards show in Los Angeles.
After the ceremony, Brown headed to the city's Playhouse nightclub to continue the party and he was caught on tape leaving the venue in the early hours of Monday morning.
In the footage, obtained by TMZ.com, Brown is shown emerging from the venue being supported by two friends, who help carry the star out before another associate goes to help. Brown is seen clutching the third man's arm as he stumbles towards a car driven by his girlfriend Karrueche Tran.
Brown served two months in jail after he admitted breaking the terms of his probation relating to his 2009 assault on then-girlfriend Rihanna.
This year's BET Awards have been marred by drama. Two unofficial pre-parties ended in violence - one reveler suffered stab wounds at an event in L.A. on Saturday, while another was killed in a shooting at a separate event. Reports also suggest another shooting took place outside a star-studded after party at the Supper Club venue. No injuries were reported. The bash is said to have been attended by stars including The Game, Meek Mill, T-Pain, and Busta Rhymes.
