City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

Chris Rock interviews white people at a monster truck rally about rap lyrics and Rick Ross in hilarious BET awards segment
By Daily Mail Reporter
Published: 22:13 GMT, 30 June 2014 | Updated: 22:15 GMT, 30 June 2014
BET awards host Chris Rock had the audience and viewers at home in stitches last night, with a pre-taped segment in which the comedian interviews white people about the network.
Rock went to a monster truck rally - 'the whitest place I could find' - to conduct the hilarious set of interviews, asking the spectators questions like, 'What does NWA stand for?'
'National white association?' one woman holding a slushie answers.
Yee-haw: Chris Rock interviewed white people at a monster truck rally in a hilarious pre-taped segment for last night's BET awards
Black Entertainment Television: Many of the spectators Rock interviewed were clueless about what BET stood for
Out of the loop: When Rock asked this woman what NWA stood for, she answered 'National white association. The correct answer is hip-hop group 'N****z Wit Attitudes'
'Pretty close,' Rock responds, though the answer is rap group 'N****z Wit Attitudes'.
Other clueless rally fans proposed white rappers Macklemore or Eminem should win an award at the ceremony, and two men struggled to finish a popular Drake lyric.
At one point, Rock pulls out a cardboard cut out of rapper Rick Ross and asks the interview subjects to name him.
No one gets the answer right, so Rock tells them hefty Ross is 'Black Santa'.
He asks one man wearing a cutoff T-shirt if he's ever dated a black woman, and the man says he's tried but the woman denied him.
'I was afraid after that. She was scary,' the man said.
But Rock says it's OK since, 'I'm afraid of black women too.'
Ho, ho, ho: Rock told the monster truck fans that rapper Rick Ross was 'Black Santa'
'Now the whole team's here': Rock asked a few of the rally spectators to finish a lyric to popular Drake song 'Started From The Bottom'
Share or comment on this article
