City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

Kenyan Actress Lupita Nyong'o And Nigerian Recording Artist Davido Win Big At The 2014 BET Awards - Forbes
The 2014 Black Entertainment Television (BET) Awards, dubbed the "Black World Cup" by comedian Chris Rock, who served as the host of the jam-packed awards show, were held on Sunday night at the Nokia Theatre at L.A LIVE in Los Angeles, California. With unforgettable moments; Rock who pulled Ellen DeGeneres'pizza delivery move at this year's Oscar Awards, handed out Roscoe's Chicken 'n Waffles to the audience; electrifying performances by Lionel Richie, recipient of the Lifetime Achievement Award who played the piano and serenaded the audience with his hit songs "Easy" and got the crowd dancing to "All Night Long" and emotional speeches including one from a tearful August Alsina, nominated for four honors, during his acceptance speech for the night's first award. "I represent the struggle," the New Orleans newcomer said onstage as he received the award for Best New Artist. "This BET Award is not for me, it's for the people." Alsina also won the BET Viewer's Choice Award.
Davido receiving his BET award
African artists were also recognized at the annual awards with Kenyan award-winning actress, Lupita Nyong'o, who snagged an Oscar earlier this year, scooping the BET Award for Best Actress beating out Oprah Winfrey, Kerry Washington, Angela Bassett and Gabrielle Union. The actress, who did not attend the awards tweeted, "@BETAwards, thank you for the #BestActress award: another blessing to joyfully count. May the Force be with you. -LN #BETAwards." The movie that propelled Nyong'o into super-stardom, "12 Years A Slave" also won the BET Award for Best Movie.
BET Award winners: Ice Prince (2013) and Davido (2014)
Since 2010, the BET Awards have recognized artists of African descent in various musical genres in the 'Best International Act: Africa' category. Nominated in that category were some of Africa's biggest and best artists including South African-pop duo Mafikizolo, Ghanaian hip hop artist Sarkodie, Nigerian artists, Tiwa Savage and Davido, Toofan from Togo and Diamond Platnumz from Tanzania. And since 2010, the BET Award for Best International Act - Africa went to Nigeria again; this time to Davido who also recently took home two awards, for Best Male and Artist of the Year at the MTV Africa Music Awards (MAMA) held in Durban, South Africa. Taking to his Instagram, Davido wrote "Victory!! Africa We did it! Thanks to all my fans!! WE WON @BETAwards BEST AFRICAN ACT 2014!! so happy!! Time to party!"
Mafikizolo performing at the 2014 BET Experience At L.A. LIVE - Music Around the Globe
This year, for the first time since the introduction of the 'Best International Act: Africa' category, African artists performed during the pre-BET Awards events, at the BET Experience at L.A. LIVE. BET nominees, Mafikizolo, Sarkodie, Tiwa Savage and Nigerian hip hop superstar Ice Prince, who won the 2013 BET Award for 'Best International Act: Africa', performed at the "Music Around the Globe" showcase on Saturday. This was Mafikizolo and Tiwa Savage's first ever performance in the United States and followed their wins at the 2014 MTV Africa Music Awards (MAMA) in the 'Best Group' and 'Best Female' categories respectively. "The BET nomination and the opportunity to perform during the BET Awards weekend was a big win for us!" said Nhlanhla of Mafikizolo after performing their hit song "Khona" on Saturday.
Sarkodie, who took home a MAMA for 'Best Hip Hop' said " This is our time Africa!" just before he took the stage.
