City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

BET Awards: Hits and a Lionel Richie miss
By Lisa Respers France, CNN
June 30, 2014 -- Updated 1815 GMT (0215 HKT)
Amber Rose arrives at the BET Awards at the Nokia Theatre on Sunday, June 29, 2014, in Los Angeles. Take a look at the other stars as they arrive.

STORY HIGHLIGHTS
Richie's name is spelled "Ritchie" in graphic
Chris Brown returns to the stage
Nicki Minaj talks about thinking she was going to die
(CNN) -- Hello BET. Was it Lionel Richie you were looking for?
The 2014 BET Awards aired Sunday, and the show honored the legendary singer with the lifetime achievement award. The only problem was that Richie's last name was spelled "Ritchie" in the graphic, prompting the trending of #lionelritchie on Twitter and deliberate misspellings of his name.
But that moment was just one of the hits and misses for the night.
HIT: Chris Brown's performance
The star, recently released from jail, returned to the stage to perform his song "Loyal" with a little help from rappers Lil Wayne and Tyga. His performance energized the crowd -- and also sparked much discussion about his plaid fashion choice.
MISS: Beyonce and Jay Z's 'live' performance
Plenty of TV viewers stayed up to catch what they believed would be a live performance by a superstar couple. Instead, the performance turned out to be a prerecorded video of the pair during a stop of their tour in Cincinnati. It was hot, but not live, and Billboard tweeted that "People are leaving the awards show in droves right now during Jay Z and Beyonce clip #BETAwards."
HIT: Chris Rock's opening monologue
The comic hosted this year's ceremony, and he killed.
Rock poked fun at everyone from the performers -- of Chris Brown, he said the singer "just signed a new deal -- too bad it's a plea deal" -- to celebs in the audience, and even got topical with the controversy over racial remarks made by Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling.
"What exactly did he say?" Rock asked. "What exactly did Donald Sterling say? 'I don't want my woman around black basketball players.' Me neither!"
MISS: Nicki Minaj's acceptance speech
The rapper and former "American Idol" judge won the best female hip-hop artist award and gave a speech that left many scratching their heads.
After declaring "I don't look at myself as a female rapper 'cause I know what I do," she went on to offer that "When you hear Nicki Minaj spit, Nicki Minaj wrote it," which some took to be a diss directed at new rapper Iggy Azalea. (Although Minaj quickly added "No shade," meaning she was not directing her remarks at anyone.)
Minaj then went on to describe her recent -- sort of -- near brush with death.
"I just want to say that the other day, literally, I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die," Minaj said. "Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call an ambulance because I thought, 'Well, if I call the ambulance, it's gonna be on TMZ.' And I would rather sit there and die. And it made me realize -- I don't care anymore what anybody gotta say."
It may take us until the 2015 BET Awards to sort that one out.
Today's five most popular stories
