City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

"BET Awards" 14 is the #1 Award Show on Cable This Season Drawing 7.9 Million Total Viewers - WSJ.com
Most Tweeted "BET Awards" Show Ever with 11 Million Tweets -- The Most Tweets Per User of Any TV Special*
The BET Experience at L.A. LIVE Presented by Coca-Cola(R) Increased Attendance by 10% with 112,488 Fans
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--June 30, 2014--
The live premiere of the "BET Awards"14 on Sunday, June 29, is cable's #1 award show this season, drawing 7.9 million viewers and dominating Twitter with 11 million tweets. Up one million tweets from last year, this year's show is the most tweeted about "BET Awards" ever; outperforming the "Billboard Music Awards," "Golden Globes," " People's Choice Awards," "Game 5 of the NBA Finals" and the "World Cup USA vs. Portugal." Hosted by Chris Rock, it was a night full of electrifying performances and unforgettable moments with Pharrell Williams, Chris Brown, Jennifer Hudson, Nicki Minaj, Lil Wayne, John Legend, August Alsina, Lionel Richie, Kevin Hart, Kerry Washington and Gabrielle Union.
The BET Experience at L.A. LIVE presented by Coca-Cola(R) in partnership with AEG, one of the leading sports and entertainment presenters in the world, drew 112,488 attendees, up 10% from last year, to the downtown Los Angeles area for an electrifying series of events including music, film screenings, Sprite Celebrity Basketball Game, "106 & PARK" live tapings, Genius Talks with Floyd Mayweather, Mike Tyson and Dr. Mae Jemison plus concerts featuring a-list talent including Outkast, Maxwell, Jill Scott, Mary J. Blige, Future, The Roots and Trey Songz.
The live telecast of "BET Awards" 14 was a worldwide trending topic on Twitter, trending in the United States for the entirety of the show. The high energy show generated the highest tweets per unique author of any special since October 2012 (Nielsen; News/Live).* The BET Awards pre-show red carpet telecast garnered 508,000 tweets. Tweet volume surpassed all other red carpets shows year to date combined, including the GRAMMY Awards and the Academy Awards.
BET.com set traffic records across all key metrics for day of show traffic with unique visitors up 49%, page views up 32% and a 171% increase on video views from last year. BET.com is also on track to set records for day after show traffic. Additional highlights include:
-- BET Facebook page reached 15 million unique users generating 50.5 million impressions -- BET Awards Facebook page reached 7.3 million unique users creating an additional 25.8 million impressions -- 240K Instagram posts tagged with the hashtag #BETAwards -- BET Awards Tumblr page had over 40k notes and reblogs -- total followers increased 35% in the last week -- BET.com experienced the highest level of traffic in connection with the premiere of the awards
Official sponsors of the "BET Awards" 14 include Coca-Cola(R), SUBWAY(R) Restaurants, Ford, Macy's, Pantene, State Farm, Nissan, Cricket Wireless and Domino's Pizza.
The "BET Awards" 14 took place along with the BET Experience at L.A. LIVE presented by Coca-Cola(R) in Los Angeles from June 27-29th. For a list of winners, visit www.bet.com/betawards. The show will premiere on BET's international network Tuesday, July 1 at 8:00 p.m. GMT.
Encore viewings of the show will air on:
-- Monday, June 30 at 7:00 p.m.* (immediately followed by the post-show) -- Saturday, July 5 at 8:00 p.m.* -- Thursday, July 10 at 7:00 p.m.*
Stephen G. Hill, BET's President of Music Programming and Specials, Lynne Harris Taylor, BET's Vice President of Specials, served as Executive Producers for the BET AWARDS 14, along with Jesse Collins, CEO of Jesse Collins Entertainment.
*All times ET/PT
About BET Awards
The BET AWARDS is one of the most watched award shows on cable television according to the Nielsen Company. The BET AWARDS franchise remains as the #1 program in cable TV history among African-Americans, and it is BET's #1 telecast every year. It recognizes the triumphs and successes of artists, entertainers, and athletes in a variety of categories.
About BET Networks
BET Networks, a subsidiary of Viacom Inc. (NASDAQ: VIAB, VIA), is the nation's leading provider of quality entertainment, music, news and public affairs television programming for the African-American audience. The primary BET channel reaches more than 90 million households and can be seen in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, the United Kingdom and sub-Saharan Africa. BET is the dominant African-American consumer brand with a diverse group of business extensions: BET.com, a leading Internet destination for Black entertainment, music, culture, and news; CENTRIC, a 24-hour entertainment network targeting the 25- to 54-year-old African-American audience; BET Digital Networks - BET Gospel and BET Hip Hop, attractive alternatives for cutting-edge entertainment tastes; BET Home Entertainment, a collection of BET-branded offerings for the home environment including DVDs and video-on-demand; BET Event Productions, a full-scale event management and production company with festivals and live events spanning the globe; BET Mobile, which provides ringtones, games and video content for wireless devices; and BET International, which operates BET in the United Kingdom and oversees the extension of BET network programming for global distribution
About AEG
AEG is one of the leading sports and entertainment presenters in the world. AEG, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Anschutz Company, owns or is affiliated with a collection of companies including more than 100 of the world's preeminent facilities such as STAPLES Center (Los Angeles), The Home Depot Center (Carson, CA), Best Buy Theater (Times Square, New York), Sprint Center, (Kansas City), Rose Garden Arena (Portland), Target Center (Minneapolis), Mercedes-Benz Arena (Shanghai, China), MasterCard Center (Beijing, China), O2 World Hamburg, Allphones Arena (Sydney, Australia), Ericsson Globe Arena (Stockholm, Sweden), O2 World Arena (Berlin, Germany) and The O2 arena and entertainment district (London, England), which are all part of the portfolio of AEG Facilities. Developed by AEG, L.A. LIVE is a 4 million square foot / $2.5 billion downtown Los Angeles sports, residential & entertainment district featuring Nokia Theatre L.A. LIVE; Club Nokia; a 54-story, 1001-room convention "headquarters" destination; along with entertainment, restaurant and office space that officially opened in 2010.
AEG Live, the company's live-entertainment division, is the world's second largest concert promotion and touring company, and is comprised of touring, festival, exhibition, broadcast, merchandise and special event divisions with fifteen regional offices. AEG Global Partnerships, a division responsible for worldwide sales and servicing of sponsorships naming rights and other strategic partnerships. In 2010, AEG launched its AEG 1EARTH environmental program with the announcement of 2020 environmental goals and the release of the industry's first sustainability report. And in 2011, AEG introduced AXS Ticketing, the first phase of its new entertainment platform serving as the company's primary consumer brand, which also will feature a mobile service as well as a video content service now in development. 
