City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

Pharrell, Alsina, Nyongo early winners at BET awards - Khaleej Times
Pharrell kicked off the show with his upbeat hit Come Get It Bae with rapper Missy Elliot.
Pharrell, who kicked off the show with his upbeat hit "Come Get It Bae" with rapper Missy Elliot, was named best male R&B/pop artist over Brown, Alsina, Legend and Justin Timberlake.
He also won video of the year for his hit "Happy," which went viral online after people posted videos of themselves from all over the world singing it.
"The song just became its own thing with the people, and I just want to thank all the people who uploaded videos ... it's no longer my song, so this award isn't really mine, it's the award that belongs to all the people." he said.
New Orleans singer Alsina, who was nominated for four awards, scored the first win of the night for best new artist, and was overcome with emotion on stage.
"I told myself if and when I would get up here I wouldn't cry," he said. "I always wondered what this moment right here would feel like. And now I know, so thank you."
Jay Z, Beyonce and rapper Drake led the nominations on Sunday with five nods each. Drake won best male hip hop artist over Jay Z, but was not on hand to collect his award.
Oscar-winning newcomer Lupita Nyong'o, also not at Sunday's show, won the best actress award, beating out "Lee Daniels' The Butler" star Oprah Winfrey and "Scandal" star Kerry Washington.
The BET awards, held in Los Angeles, celebrates black musicians, actors and athletes and is hosted by cable TV network BET, Black Entertainment Television, part of Viacom Inc.
Comedian Chris Rock hosted the show, throwing jokes and jibes at the likes of Solange Knowles, Rick Ross and Clippers owner Donald Sterling. He also handed out chicken and waffles to the audience, imitating Ellen DeGeneres' pizza stunt during this year's Oscars.
The three-and-a-half hour show toplined many high-profile performances from some of the music world's biggest names.
Usher referenced his 20-year career with a medley of his hits while John Legend brought some romance with his ballad "You & I" and was later joined by newcomer Jhene Aiko as they sang her hit "I Don't Need You."
Oscar-winning actress and former "American Idol" finalist Jennifer Hudson belted her 90s-inspired song "Walk It Out."
Troubled R&B star Brown joined rapper Lil Wayne to perform "Loyal." Host Rock quipped about Brown's plea deal and "dancing like he was free," referencing his recent legal troubles.
The awards show was overshadowed by two incidents of violence at unofficial BET pre-parties in Los Angeles, including a shooting early on Sunday that left one person dead and four wounded. BET said both incidents "occurred at locations with events that were unauthorized and unaffiliated."
For more news from Khaleej Times, follow us on Facebook at facebook.com/khaleejtimes, and on Twitter at @khaleejtimes
