City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

Chris Brown reportedly blames booze hiatus for wobbly club exit - Los Angeles Times
Chris Brown, lightweight? Interesting what some time behind bars can do to a guy ...
A rather, ahem, loose-looking Brown was seen, in video posted by TMZ, being assisted from club door to car door by two friends as he left Hollywood's Playhouse nightclub in the early morning hours Monday.
The singer had been at an after-party following Sunday's BET Awards at L.A. Live, where he'd taken the stage with Lil Wayne, Tyga and Travis Barker.
Thing is: Breezy, who appeared to have had a good time at Playhouse in pictures posted by TheYBF, just got out of jail on June 2. He'd spent almost four months behind bars after a stretch in a couple of rehab facilities. Bottle service hasn't exactly been abundant.
Now he's "privately" saying that after six months without a drink, he can't pound like he used to, according to TMZ. But that didn't stop Weezy, Tyga and Soulja Boy from plying him with liquor to celebrate his return to the stage.
"Several" shots were consumed, the website said.
No need to worry about another probation violation in the Rihanna-assault case: Brown's newest sentence only requires him to stay off marijuana, not alcohol. Also no need to worry that Breezy got behind the wheel: Girlfriend Karrueche Tran apparently had the keys to the orange Lamborghini they slipped away in.
"Thank you God for allowing me to do what I love and blessing me with an amazing support team," he said Monday on Twitter.
The look on Brown's face as he was leaving Playhouse earlier in the day might suggest that getting hammered isn't high on his "love" list these days.
