City Times - Pharrell, Nicki Minaj, Lupita Nyongo pick up gongs at BET Awards
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
Nicki Minaj picked up her fifth consecutive award for best female hip-hop artist.- Agencies
Nicki Minaj told the crowd at the BET Awards that she was close to death recently -- an experience that has helped her be herself.
The rapper rambled onstage when accepting her fifth consecutive win for best female hip-hop artist, where she thanked Lil Wayne for his support, talked about writing her own lyrics and about getting the credit she deserves in the industry.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, 'Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she said, as some of the audience laughed.
"And I would rather sit there and die," she added, looking to the crowd. "And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
The multitalented Pharrell, who also won best male R&B/pop artist, kicked off the show with a playful performance of Come Get It Bae featuring the reclusive Missy Elliott. Host Chris Rock also succeeded with back-to-back jokes about Donald Sterling, the hit series Scandal and rapper Rick Ross, who he mentioned multiple times. He passed out food from Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles, playing off of Ellen DeGeneres pizza party at the Academy Awards.
It helped take attention away from a fatal shooting and a separate stabbing at unsanctioned parties celebrating the ceremony. One person was killed and five injured in separate incidents ahead of the show, Los Angeles police said. The events were "unauthorised and unaffiliated with the BET Awards," BET said in a statement.
A tribute to '90s R&B was met with praise: Groups like Silk, Color Me Badd and Troop performed well-known jams that enticed the crowd. Drake, Beyonce and Jay Z were top nominees with five each. Drake, who was originally set to perform, did not attend. He won best male hip-hop artist.
Lupita Nyong'o, who won an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, was named best actress.

Nicki Minaj clears up Iggy Azalea diss rumors at BET Awards in Twitter rant - NY Daily News
Christopher Polk/BET/Getty Images for BET Singer Nicki Minaj speaks onstage Sunday during the BET Awards at the Nokia Theatre in Los Angeles.
Iggy Azalea and her music are still fancy in the eyes of Nicki Minaj.
The "Super Bass" singer, who was accused of dissing the Australian newcomer at Sunday's BET Awards, took to Twitter Wednesday to clear things up.
"I've congratulated Iggy on the success of Fancy, publicly. She should be very proud of that. All the women nominated should b proud," Minaj wrote of the accusations thrown her way after winning Best Female Hip Hop Artist for the fifth year in a row.
During the 31-year-old rapper's acceptance speech she made sure to stress how much pride she takes in writing her own music.
"What I want the world to know about Nicki Minaj is, that when you hear Nicki Minaj spit, Nicki Minaj wrote it," she said without mentioning fellow nominee Azalea, 24, who's catchy tracks have been rumored to have ghostwriters.
Kevin Winter/Getty Images for BET 	 	Singer/rapper Nicki Minaj accepting Best Female Hip-Hop Artist onstage during the BET Awards.
Enlarge
Michael Tran/FilmMagic 	 	Iggy Azalea performing onstage during the BET Awards Sunday.
Enlarge
Even though the starlet stressed while onstage that she intended "no shade" with her comments, she felt the need to further clarify herself via social media days later.
"The media puts words in my mouth all the time and this is no different. I will always take a stance on women writing b/c I believe in us," Minaj wrote.
"I believe we're smart enough to write down our own thoughts and perspective, just like the men do. I've been saying this for 5 years."
Minaj then referenced Lauryn Hill as one of her inspirations in the industry for writing her own music.
"I fell in love with Lauryn Hill b/c I knew she was the author behind those amazingly profound and articulated songs on the MisEducation," Minaj continued.
"That will never change my desire to motivate women to write. Our voices have to be heard. I hope I inspire up & coming females to do that."
ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.
