Kenyan Actress Lupita Nyong'o And Nigerian Recording Artist Davido Win Big At The 2014 BET Awards - Forbes
The 2014 Black Entertainment Television (BET) Awards, dubbed the "Black World Cup" by comedian Chris Rock, who served as the host of the jam-packed awards show, were held on Sunday night at the Nokia Theatre at L.A LIVE in Los Angeles, California. With unforgettable moments; Rock who pulled Ellen DeGeneres'pizza delivery move at this year's Oscar Awards, handed out Roscoe's Chicken 'n Waffles to the audience; electrifying performances by Lionel Richie, recipient of the Lifetime Achievement Award who played the piano and serenaded the audience with his hit songs "Easy" and got the crowd dancing to "All Night Long" and emotional speeches including one from a tearful August Alsina, nominated for four honors, during his acceptance speech for the night's first award. "I represent the struggle," the New Orleans newcomer said onstage as he received the award for Best New Artist. "This BET Award is not for me, it's for the people." Alsina also won the BET Viewer's Choice Award.
Davido receiving his BET award
African artists were also recognized at the annual awards with Kenyan award-winning actress, Lupita Nyong'o, who snagged an Oscar earlier this year, scooping the BET Award for Best Actress beating out Oprah Winfrey, Kerry Washington, Angela Bassett and Gabrielle Union. The actress, who did not attend the awards tweeted, "@BETAwards, thank you for the #BestActress award: another blessing to joyfully count. May the Force be with you. -LN #BETAwards." The movie that propelled Nyong'o into super-stardom, "12 Years A Slave" also won the BET Award for Best Movie.
BET Award winners: Ice Prince (2013) and Davido (2014)
Since 2010, the BET Awards have recognized artists of African descent in various musical genres in the 'Best International Act: Africa' category. Nominated in that category were some of Africa's biggest and best artists including South African-pop duo Mafikizolo, Ghanaian hip hop artist Sarkodie, Nigerian artists, Tiwa Savage and Davido, Toofan from Togo and Diamond Platnumz from Tanzania. And since 2010, the BET Award for Best International Act - Africa went to Nigeria again; this time to Davido who also recently took home two awards, for Best Male and Artist of the Year at the MTV Africa Music Awards (MAMA) held in Durban, South Africa. Taking to his Instagram, Davido wrote "Victory!! Africa We did it! Thanks to all my fans!! WE WON @BETAwards BEST AFRICAN ACT 2014!! so happy!! Time to party!"
Mafikizolo performing at the 2014 BET Experience At L.A. LIVE - Music Around the Globe
This year, for the first time since the introduction of the 'Best International Act: Africa' category, African artists performed during the pre-BET Awards events, at the BET Experience at L.A. LIVE. BET nominees, Mafikizolo, Sarkodie, Tiwa Savage and Nigerian hip hop superstar Ice Prince, who won the 2013 BET Award for 'Best International Act: Africa', performed at the "Music Around the Globe" showcase on Saturday. This was Mafikizolo and Tiwa Savage's first ever performance in the United States and followed their wins at the 2014 MTV Africa Music Awards (MAMA) in the 'Best Group' and 'Best Female' categories respectively. "The BET nomination and the opportunity to perform during the BET Awards weekend was a big win for us!" said Nhlanhla of Mafikizolo after performing their hit song "Khona" on Saturday.
Sarkodie, who took home a MAMA for 'Best Hip Hop' said " This is our time Africa!" just before he took the stage.
