Nicki Minaj clears up Iggy Azalea diss rumors at BET Awards in Twitter rant - NY Daily News
Christopher Polk/BET/Getty Images for BET Singer Nicki Minaj speaks onstage Sunday during the BET Awards at the Nokia Theatre in Los Angeles.
Iggy Azalea and her music are still fancy in the eyes of Nicki Minaj.
The "Super Bass" singer, who was accused of dissing the Australian newcomer at Sunday's BET Awards, took to Twitter Wednesday to clear things up.
"I've congratulated Iggy on the success of Fancy, publicly. She should be very proud of that. All the women nominated should b proud," Minaj wrote of the accusations thrown her way after winning Best Female Hip Hop Artist for the fifth year in a row.
During the 31-year-old rapper's acceptance speech she made sure to stress how much pride she takes in writing her own music.
"What I want the world to know about Nicki Minaj is, that when you hear Nicki Minaj spit, Nicki Minaj wrote it," she said without mentioning fellow nominee Azalea, 24, who's catchy tracks have been rumored to have ghostwriters.
Kevin Winter/Getty Images for BET 	 	Singer/rapper Nicki Minaj accepting Best Female Hip-Hop Artist onstage during the BET Awards.
Enlarge
Michael Tran/FilmMagic 	 	Iggy Azalea performing onstage during the BET Awards Sunday.
Enlarge
Even though the starlet stressed while onstage that she intended "no shade" with her comments, she felt the need to further clarify herself via social media days later.
"The media puts words in my mouth all the time and this is no different. I will always take a stance on women writing b/c I believe in us," Minaj wrote.
"I believe we're smart enough to write down our own thoughts and perspective, just like the men do. I've been saying this for 5 years."
Minaj then referenced Lauryn Hill as one of her inspirations in the industry for writing her own music.
"I fell in love with Lauryn Hill b/c I knew she was the author behind those amazingly profound and articulated songs on the MisEducation," Minaj continued.
"That will never change my desire to motivate women to write. Our voices have to be heard. I hope I inspire up & coming females to do that."
ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.
