Did Nicki Minaj Shade Iggy Azalea During Her BET Awards Acceptance Speech? The Internet Thinks So! | E! Online
Kevin Winter/Getty Images for BET
Nicki Minaj didn't mention Iggy Azalea by name when she accepted her fifth BET Award for Best Female Hip Hop Artist, but according to the internet, her trash talking was directed at the up-and-coming rapper. BuzzFeed, Gawker and Vulture were just three of the websites to accuse the "Pills n Potions" rapper of dissing her fellow nominee, who has been widely rumored to use ghostwriters on her album.
"This is always very, very emotional for me. Because this is my fifth year winning this award and I don't take it for granted. I really don't," the 31-year-old musician said during her rambling acceptance speech. "I thank god that I've been placed in a position to do something and represent women in a culture that is so male-driven. And I want you to know this: I want you to know that I have an album, The Pink Print, that's coming out before the year ends. That's not a plug, but it's a plug! But my point is, what I want the world to know about Nicki Minaj is, that when you hear Nicki Minaj spit, Nicki Minaj wrote it."
After posing like a diva, she continued, "No, no, no shade. No, no, no shade. I used to sit in the studio with [Lil Wayne] and I would literally take sometimes three, four days to write a verse. And he was like, 'No, you can't be taking days to write no verse, you gotta write your verse right here in the studio.' And that's why I love him 'til this day. Because he pushed me to push my pen, and I'm still one of the only emcees that's out here spitting metaphors and making you think. And I really don't even care if I get my credit or if I don't. I don't look at myself as a female rapper, because I know what I do. And I thank my fans because they...They might cut me off. This is so big. At one time black people was getting blacked out on the TV now they own their own network. This is big. This is different."
NEWS: LOL! Chris Rock's best jokes at the 2014 BET Awards
Minaj then dropped another shocker. "I just wanna say that, the other day, literally I didn't tell anyone this, I really thought I was about to die. Like I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even wanna call the ambulance because I thought well if I call the ambulance, it's gonna be on TMZ. And I would rather sit there and die. And it made me realize, I don't care what anybody gotta say. I'ma do me. I'ma do me. And I hope and pray that BET continues to honor authenticity. And that's all I'm gonna say about that," the former American Idol judge said. "Stephen I love you. It is what it is. Young Money 'til the death of me."
Azalea, who performed "No Mediocre" with T.I., has yet to comment on Minaj's speech.
PHOTOS: See what all the stars wore on the red carpet at the 2014 BET Awards
RELATED VIDEOS:
