Chris Rock interviews white people at a monster truck rally about rap lyrics and Rick Ross in hilarious BET awards segment
By Daily Mail Reporter
Published: 22:13 GMT, 30 June 2014 | Updated: 22:15 GMT, 30 June 2014
BET awards host Chris Rock had the audience and viewers at home in stitches last night, with a pre-taped segment in which the comedian interviews white people about the network.
Rock went to a monster truck rally - 'the whitest place I could find' - to conduct the hilarious set of interviews, asking the spectators questions like, 'What does NWA stand for?'
'National white association?' one woman holding a slushie answers.
Yee-haw: Chris Rock interviewed white people at a monster truck rally in a hilarious pre-taped segment for last night's BET awards
Black Entertainment Television: Many of the spectators Rock interviewed were clueless about what BET stood for
Out of the loop: When Rock asked this woman what NWA stood for, she answered 'National white association. The correct answer is hip-hop group 'N****z Wit Attitudes'
'Pretty close,' Rock responds, though the answer is rap group 'N****z Wit Attitudes'.
Other clueless rally fans proposed white rappers Macklemore or Eminem should win an award at the ceremony, and two men struggled to finish a popular Drake lyric.
At one point, Rock pulls out a cardboard cut out of rapper Rick Ross and asks the interview subjects to name him.
No one gets the answer right, so Rock tells them hefty Ross is 'Black Santa'.
He asks one man wearing a cutoff T-shirt if he's ever dated a black woman, and the man says he's tried but the woman denied him.
'I was afraid after that. She was scary,' the man said.
But Rock says it's OK since, 'I'm afraid of black women too.'
Ho, ho, ho: Rock told the monster truck fans that rapper Rick Ross was 'Black Santa'
'Now the whole team's here': Rock asked a few of the rally spectators to finish a lyric to popular Drake song 'Started From The Bottom'
Share or comment on this article
