Israel approves Egyptian-proposed Gaza truce but Hamas suspicious | Reuters
GAZA/JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel approved an Egyptian-proposed deal that would halt the week-old Gaza shelling war on Tuesday but the Palestinian territory's dominant Hamas Islamists responded suspiciously, saying they had not been consulted by Cairo.
Hamas's armed wing vowed its attacks would "increase in ferocity and intensity" but Palestinian rocket salvoes waned ahead of the mooted start of mutual de-escalation at 0600 GMT.
Israel said there had been two cross-border launches overnight that caused no damage, and that it had bombed 25 sites in Gaza. Palestinian medical officials said a 63-year-old man and a 52-year-old woman were killed - bringing the enclave's death toll to more than 182, most of them civilians.
At Israeli military headquarters in Tel Aviv, the security cabinet convened by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said it voted to approve the truce deal, minutes before it was to come into effect.
Amos Gilad, a senior Israeli defence official and envoy to Cairo, cast the deal positively, saying Hamas had been weakened by the air and sea bombardment of impoverished Gaza. "Look at the balance, and you see that Hamas tried every possible means of striking at Israel while bringing great and terrible damage on its people, from their perspective," Gilad told Israel's Army Radio. "The Egyptian proposal includes a halt to all kind of (military) activity," he said. "What this proposal, if it is accepted, means is that, willy-nilly, Hamas did not manage to make good on its intentions."
Sami Abu Zuhri, a Hamas spokesman in Gaza, said earlier on Tuesday that the Islamist group had not received an official ceasefire proposal, and he repeated its position that demands it has made must be met before it lays down its weapons.
Hamas's armed wing, the al-Qassam Brigades, rejected the reported text of the truce deal, saying: "Our battle with the enemy continues and will increase in ferocity and intensity."
ROCKETS IN EILAT
The worst Gaza flare-up in two years has killed no one in Israel, largely due to its Iron Dome anti-missile system. But the frequent rocket salvoes have disrupted life as air raid sirens sent people in much of the country racing to shelters.
In what may have been an effort to upstage Cairo's mediation, three rockets were launched from the Egyptian Sinai at the southern Israeli resort of Eilat, wounding four people, Israeli officials said. They said the salvo was likely fired by Islamist fighters hostile to Israel and the Egyptian government.
Under the proposal announced by Egypt's Foreign Ministry "de-escalation arrangements" would take effect at 0600 GMT, pending implementation of a full truce within 12 hours after.
High-level delegations from Israel and the Palestinian factions would hold separate talks in Cairo within 48 hours to consolidate the ceasefire with "confidence-building measures".
The Arab League said in a statement it welcomed the Egyptian initiative "to protect the lives of the innocent."
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, who reached an agreement with Hamas in April that led to the formation of a unity government last month, welcomed the proposal and urged its acceptance, official Palestinian news agency WAFA said.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will hold talk with Egyptian officials in Cairo on situation on Tuesday, Egypt's state news agency said. In Washington, U.S. President Barack Obama on Monday spoke positively of the emerging ceasefire.
Reiterating U.S. support for Israel in the face of Hamas's "inexcusable" attacks and concern for Palestinian civilian casualties, Obama said in a speech: "We are encouraged that Egypt has made a proposal to accomplish this (truce) goal which we hope can restore a calm that we've been seeking."
Hours before the proposal was announced, Gaza militants resumed rocket attacks on Tel Aviv after a 24-hour lull, while Israel kept up its strikes in the Gaza Strip and deployed infantry and armour along the frontier.
Israel had mobilised tens of thousands of troops for a threatened Gaza invasion if the rocket salvoes persisted.
"We still have the possibility of going in, under cabinet authority, and putting and end to them (the rockets)," Gilad said.
Late on Monday, Israel bombed the house of Marwan Issa, a top commander of Hamas' armed wing, in Bureij refugee camp.
HAMAS DEMANDS
The surge in hostilities over the past week was prompted by the murder last month of three Jewish seminary students in the occupied West Bank and the revenge killing on July 2 of a Palestinian youth in Jerusalem. Israel said on Monday three Jews in police custody had confessed to killing the Palestinian.
Hamas leaders have said a ceasefire must include an end to Israel's blockade of Gaza and a recommitment to a truce reached in an eight-day war there in 2012. Hamas also wants Egypt to ease restrictions at its Rafah crossing with Gaza imposed after the military toppled Islamist president Mohamed Mursi last July.
But the Egyptian proposal made no mention of Rafah or when restrictions might be eased. It said only that "crossings shall be opened and the movement of persons and goods through (them) shall be facilitated once the security situation becomes stable on the ground".
Hamas has faced a cash crisis and Gaza's economic hardship has deepened as a result of Egypt's destruction of cross-border smuggling tunnels. Cairo accuses Hamas of aiding anti-government Islamist militants in Egypt's Sinai peninsula, an allegation the Palestinian group denies. Hamas has said it wants the release of hundreds of its activists arrested in the West Bank while Israel searched for the three missing teens. The detainees include more than 50 Hamas men freed from Israeli jails in a 2011 prisoner exchange.
The proposed truce made no mention of the detainees in stipulating that "other issues, including security issues, shall be discussed with the sides."
(Additional reporting by Allyn Fisher-Ilan, Maayan Lubell in Jerusalem, Noah Browning in Gaza, Michael Georgy in Cairo, Amena Bakr in Doha and Annika McGinnis in Washington; Writing by Dan Williams and Jeffrey Heller; Editing by Nick Macfie and Andrew Heavens)

Gaza Live: John Kerry caught on tape slamming Israel
1:30 pm: Kerry caught on mic criticising Israel
US Secretary of State John Kerry appeared to criticize Israel in candid remarks caught on an open microphone between television interviews Sunday.
Kerry was heard talking about Israeli soldiers killed in Gaza to a State Department official identified as Jonathan Finer just before appearing on the "Fox News Sunday" political talk show.
"I hope they don't think that's an invitation to go do more," Kerry says. "That better be the warning to them."
A frustrated Kerry then says: "It's a hell of a pinpoint operation, it's a hell of a pinpoint operation," in apparent frustration over the civilian toll in the Israeli operation.
"We've got to get over there," Kerry is heard saying on the Sunday recording. "I think, Jon, we ought to go tonight. I think it's crazy to be sitting around. Let's go."
When confronted over the remarks by Fox host Chris Wallace, Kerry reiterated Israel's right to self-defense.
"I think it's very, very difficult in these situations, obviously very difficult," Kerry said.
"You have people who've come out of tunnels. You have a right to go in and take out those tunnels. We completely support that. And we support Israel's right to defend itself against rockets that are continuing to come in. Hamas has started this process of rocketing, after Israel was trying to find the people who killed three young -- you know, one American kid, three young Israeli citizens. It's disgraceful," Kerry said.
"It's tough to have this kind of operation. I reacted obviously in a way that ... anybody does with respect to young children and civilians.
"But war is tough, and I've said that publicly and I've said it again. We defend Israel's right to do what it is doing in order to get at those tunnels," Kerry said.
Kerry then urged Hamas to "step up and be reasonable and understand that you accept the cease-fire, you save lives."
1:30 pm: Sitaram Yechury speaks on Gaza
Addressing the Rajya Sabha on the ongoing Gaza crisis, CPM leader Sitaram Yechury called on the government to immediately suspend all military purchases from Israel.
"This is a genocide of sorts, we cannot remain silent to violations of International Law," he said. "You are the biggest terrorist by illegally occupying Palestine land," Yechury said about Israel. India cannot be party to this genocide. This must stop," he said.
Yechury also mentioned Vajpayee's condemnation of US invasion of Iraq, calling on the Rajya Sabha to pass a resolution doing the same about Gaza.
"This is against Insaniyat (Humanity) completely. Modi has signed BRICS resolution with East Jerusalem as capital. So why are we afraid to pass resolution?" Yechury asked the house.
"India is the only non-Arab country that opposed partition of Palestine. Let Israel vacate all illegally held properties in Palestine. Countries can go to war, but can we ever say we are against an elected govt and therefore go to war? Govt of Palestine has been elected by the people, we must respect it," he said.
12:51 pm: JD(U) leader Sharad Yadav addresses the Rajya Sabha
"People are being forced to leave their own land. How can we let this happen? We must discuss this. It will have a major impact on the future of our country," Sharad Yadav said as he addressed the Rajya Sabha on the Gaza crisis.
"How can people run away from a strip of land that's just 6 km in width?" he said urging the Rajya Sabha to focus and debate the role India could play in the ongoing humanitarian crisis.
However, as time ran out, Yadav said that discussions like these should not be restricted by logistical considerations/ "This is a discussion on humanity, please don't restrict the timing of speakers," he said wrapping up.
12:33 pm: BJP leader Anil Dave addresses the Rajya Sabha
Addressing the Rajya Sabha, BJP leader Anil Dave said that there ought to be discussion of "global issues of peace."
"What is happening in Israel and Gaza is also happening in various other parts of the world. Mani Shankarji, the problem is you get uneasy too soon," Dave said
Dave also said that there is need to inform the youth that heavens cannot be attained if one chooses a violent path. "You cannot achieve jannat through guns, but only through namaz and prayer," he said.
"Doesn't matter which side of the border, people are dying. We must stop this," said Brajesh Pathank, BSP leader.
"This is a war but it's an unequal war," Ahmed Hussein, TMC MP on Israel's war on Gaza terming it the "new Holocaust".
"Our party, led by Mamata Banerjee, condemns this violence," Hussein added discussing Gaza in Parliament.
12:00 pm: Palestine belongs to the Arabs: Ghulam Nabi Azad tells Rajya Sabha
Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad addresed the Rajya Sabha on Gaza crisis and urged the house to pass a resolution against Israel as well as Hamas for the use of force.
"We should have been the first nation to discuss Gaza, we are the largest democracy. It is India's job to defend a small nation that is being pressurised," Azad said addressing the Rajya Sabha.
"Palestine belongs to the Arabs in the same sense as England belongs to English," Azad said quoting Mahatma Gandhi's article which appeared in a pre-Independence publication called The Harijan.
Nabi added that it was wrong to impose Judaism on Arabs. "We must insist on just statement of Jews wherever they are born or bred. Jews in france are French, Christians born in France are French," he said.
"We want to know from government if there is any change in our foreign policy since the time of Nehru and Vajpayee. From labourers to nurses, there's no company in West Asia where an Indian is not employed" he said.
Azad also said that in the fighting until three days ago, 1500 tonnes of ammunition was used on Gaza strip. Nabi also cited UN figures and said that the death toll had crossed 400 while 60,000 had been rendered homeless as the conflict steadily escalated.
"Hospitals have been destroyed. No medication available. 3,500 are injured. Who will help them?" asked Azad.
11:50 am: Kerry arrives in Egypt seeking ceasefire
US Secretary of State John Kerry traveled to Cairo early Monday for crisis talks on Gaza, following President Barack Obama's call for an "immediate ceasefire" between Israelis and Palestinians.
The US top diplomat is scheduled to meet with senior o
