Israel approves Egyptian-proposed Gaza truce but Hamas suspicious | Reuters
GAZA/JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel approved an Egyptian-proposed deal that would halt the week-old Gaza shelling war on Tuesday but the Palestinian territory's dominant Hamas Islamists responded suspiciously, saying they had not been consulted by Cairo.
Hamas's armed wing vowed its attacks would "increase in ferocity and intensity" but Palestinian rocket salvoes waned ahead of the mooted start of mutual de-escalation at 0600 GMT.
Israel said there had been two cross-border launches overnight that caused no damage, and that it had bombed 25 sites in Gaza. Palestinian medical officials said a 63-year-old man and a 52-year-old woman were killed - bringing the enclave's death toll to more than 182, most of them civilians.
At Israeli military headquarters in Tel Aviv, the security cabinet convened by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said it voted to approve the truce deal, minutes before it was to come into effect.
Amos Gilad, a senior Israeli defence official and envoy to Cairo, cast the deal positively, saying Hamas had been weakened by the air and sea bombardment of impoverished Gaza. "Look at the balance, and you see that Hamas tried every possible means of striking at Israel while bringing great and terrible damage on its people, from their perspective," Gilad told Israel's Army Radio. "The Egyptian proposal includes a halt to all kind of (military) activity," he said. "What this proposal, if it is accepted, means is that, willy-nilly, Hamas did not manage to make good on its intentions."
Sami Abu Zuhri, a Hamas spokesman in Gaza, said earlier on Tuesday that the Islamist group had not received an official ceasefire proposal, and he repeated its position that demands it has made must be met before it lays down its weapons.
Hamas's armed wing, the al-Qassam Brigades, rejected the reported text of the truce deal, saying: "Our battle with the enemy continues and will increase in ferocity and intensity."
ROCKETS IN EILAT
The worst Gaza flare-up in two years has killed no one in Israel, largely due to its Iron Dome anti-missile system. But the frequent rocket salvoes have disrupted life as air raid sirens sent people in much of the country racing to shelters.
In what may have been an effort to upstage Cairo's mediation, three rockets were launched from the Egyptian Sinai at the southern Israeli resort of Eilat, wounding four people, Israeli officials said. They said the salvo was likely fired by Islamist fighters hostile to Israel and the Egyptian government.
Under the proposal announced by Egypt's Foreign Ministry "de-escalation arrangements" would take effect at 0600 GMT, pending implementation of a full truce within 12 hours after.
High-level delegations from Israel and the Palestinian factions would hold separate talks in Cairo within 48 hours to consolidate the ceasefire with "confidence-building measures".
The Arab League said in a statement it welcomed the Egyptian initiative "to protect the lives of the innocent."
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, who reached an agreement with Hamas in April that led to the formation of a unity government last month, welcomed the proposal and urged its acceptance, official Palestinian news agency WAFA said.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will hold talk with Egyptian officials in Cairo on situation on Tuesday, Egypt's state news agency said. In Washington, U.S. President Barack Obama on Monday spoke positively of the emerging ceasefire.
Reiterating U.S. support for Israel in the face of Hamas's "inexcusable" attacks and concern for Palestinian civilian casualties, Obama said in a speech: "We are encouraged that Egypt has made a proposal to accomplish this (truce) goal which we hope can restore a calm that we've been seeking."
Hours before the proposal was announced, Gaza militants resumed rocket attacks on Tel Aviv after a 24-hour lull, while Israel kept up its strikes in the Gaza Strip and deployed infantry and armour along the frontier.
Israel had mobilised tens of thousands of troops for a threatened Gaza invasion if the rocket salvoes persisted.
"We still have the possibility of going in, under cabinet authority, and putting and end to them (the rockets)," Gilad said.
Late on Monday, Israel bombed the house of Marwan Issa, a top commander of Hamas' armed wing, in Bureij refugee camp.
HAMAS DEMANDS
The surge in hostilities over the past week was prompted by the murder last month of three Jewish seminary students in the occupied West Bank and the revenge killing on July 2 of a Palestinian youth in Jerusalem. Israel said on Monday three Jews in police custody had confessed to killing the Palestinian.
Hamas leaders have said a ceasefire must include an end to Israel's blockade of Gaza and a recommitment to a truce reached in an eight-day war there in 2012. Hamas also wants Egypt to ease restrictions at its Rafah crossing with Gaza imposed after the military toppled Islamist president Mohamed Mursi last July.
But the Egyptian proposal made no mention of Rafah or when restrictions might be eased. It said only that "crossings shall be opened and the movement of persons and goods through (them) shall be facilitated once the security situation becomes stable on the ground".
Hamas has faced a cash crisis and Gaza's economic hardship has deepened as a result of Egypt's destruction of cross-border smuggling tunnels. Cairo accuses Hamas of aiding anti-government Islamist militants in Egypt's Sinai peninsula, an allegation the Palestinian group denies. Hamas has said it wants the release of hundreds of its activists arrested in the West Bank while Israel searched for the three missing teens. The detainees include more than 50 Hamas men freed from Israeli jails in a 2011 prisoner exchange.
The proposed truce made no mention of the detainees in stipulating that "other issues, including security issues, shall be discussed with the sides."
(Additional reporting by Allyn Fisher-Ilan, Maayan Lubell in Jerusalem, Noah Browning in Gaza, Michael Georgy in Cairo, Amena Bakr in Doha and Annika McGinnis in Washington; Writing by Dan Williams and Jeffrey Heller; Editing by Nick Macfie and Andrew Heavens)

Palestinians Seek Shelter At Supply-Strapped U.N. Schools : NPR
hide captionPalestinian families travel to a United Nations school to seek shelter after evacuating their homes near the Israel-Gaza border Sunday. Israel has been warning residents to leave.
Mahmud Hams/AFP/Getty Images
Palestinian families travel to a United Nations school to seek shelter after evacuating their homes near the Israel-Gaza border Sunday. Israel has been warning residents to leave.
Mahmud Hams/AFP/Getty Images
Residents in Northern Gaza have been fleeing their homes in anticipation of a new Israeli assault, as the exchange of Hamas rockets and Israeli airstrikes enters its sixth day. A brief ground action conducted by Israel Sunday morning came as Israel warns that a larger campaign may be coming.
But United Nations schools in Gaza, which expect to shelter tens of thousands of Palestinians, say they're short on resources to help provide for the evacuees.
Palestinians in cars, motorbikes and donkey carts are following Gaza's main road south. Jamil Sultan travels on a cart with three grandchildren, his wife and two grown daughters.
"Tonight it was hell there -- too much shooting and shelling," Sultan says. "And Israelis, they called us at the land line and they told us, 'You have to leave the area immediately.' We left all our clothes, our private things, at home. We brought things that we can sleep and sit on."
On another cart heading south, Aliya Gabin holds an infant and travels with seven other children. They're heading for a school run by the U.N. Relief and Works Agency, or UNRWA, in Gaza.
"The U.N. schools are safe," Gabin says, "because all the houses are targeted. We don't know what else to do. This is torture."
In the courtyard at the al-Remal Elementary School, families unload bedding, cooking pots and bags of rice. U.N. staff say the first people seeking shelter knocked on school gates at 2 a.m., in the middle of an Israeli bombing campaign. In an upstairs classroom, a message on the blackboard left over from the school year announces a test on human rights issues.
hide captionPalestinian families arrive at al-Remal Elementary School, which is run by the U.N. Relief and Works Agency, or UNRWA. The director of UNRWA operations in Gaza says the U.N. expects 50,000 evacuees to seek shelter at schools like this one.
Ahmed Abu Hamda for NPR
Palestinian families arrive at al-Remal Elementary School, which is run by the U.N. Relief and Works Agency, or UNRWA. The director of UNRWA operations in Gaza says the U.N. expects 50,000 evacuees to seek shelter at schools like this one.
Ahmed Abu Hamda for NPR
U.N. workers are trying to put no more than 30 people in each classroom, and trying to keep extended families together.
Nayhid Sayyed's 3-year-old daughter is crying. This is the third time Sayyed has left her home due to fighting in Gaza.
"Whenever there is a war, we come here," she says. "This is the third time we've come here. It's always the same. Hitting, bombing, incursion."
The U.N. has been preparing for this kind of evacuation, says Robert Turner, the director of UNRWA operations in Gaza. The last time Israel sent troops into Gaza on the ground, five years ago, 50,000 Palestinians sought shelter in U.N. schools.
"So we have prepared more or less for a similar kind of number," Turner says. "Unfortunately, we don't have the supplies we'd like to have, because we had to distribute a lot of relief supplies after ... the really terrible flooding in December of last year. We were never able to find the funding to replenish those stocks."
The agency has enough supplies for about 35,000 people, he says.
Israel widely publicized its warnings Saturday, calling cellphones and dropping leaflets to instruct civilians in Northern Gaza to leave. But some Palestinians near border areas got warnings several days ago.
"They said if you stay in your home, you'll die. But if you leave, you'll be safe," says Um Muhanaad Abu Haloub, who left her home in the north on Thursday and went to relatives in Gaza City.
"We were afraid," she says. "My daughter came with me at first. But when she saw that nothing happened at home, she went back."
Her 80-year-old husband, Mohammad Arafa Abu Haloub, had stayed back on their land. Their daughter and a son stayed with him. But this morning, they all changed their minds and left. Mohammad says it was not easy to abandon his home.
"I received six warnings before. I always intended not to leave," he says. "But I changed my mind finally because I wanted to protect and save the lives of my son and daughter who came and stayed with me -- and they refused to leave unless I left with them."
Hamas countered early Israeli warnings to leave the north with its own calls for Palestinians to stay and not believe Israeli threats. But some people leaving today said Hamas leaders told them it was better to go.
The militant group formally quit governing the Gaza strip last month, but remains in clear control of the region's weapons at least. Israel pulled out of Gaza nine years ago. The U.N.'s Robert Turner says he is not sure what comes next.
"That's the big question. That's what has us most worried ... How does this end?" Turner asks. "Who picks up the keys to Gaza when this is over?"
