Israel approves Egyptian-proposed Gaza truce but Hamas suspicious | Reuters
GAZA/JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel approved an Egyptian-proposed deal that would halt the week-old Gaza shelling war on Tuesday but the Palestinian territory's dominant Hamas Islamists responded suspiciously, saying they had not been consulted by Cairo.
Hamas's armed wing vowed its attacks would "increase in ferocity and intensity" but Palestinian rocket salvoes waned ahead of the mooted start of mutual de-escalation at 0600 GMT.
Israel said there had been two cross-border launches overnight that caused no damage, and that it had bombed 25 sites in Gaza. Palestinian medical officials said a 63-year-old man and a 52-year-old woman were killed - bringing the enclave's death toll to more than 182, most of them civilians.
At Israeli military headquarters in Tel Aviv, the security cabinet convened by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said it voted to approve the truce deal, minutes before it was to come into effect.
Amos Gilad, a senior Israeli defence official and envoy to Cairo, cast the deal positively, saying Hamas had been weakened by the air and sea bombardment of impoverished Gaza. "Look at the balance, and you see that Hamas tried every possible means of striking at Israel while bringing great and terrible damage on its people, from their perspective," Gilad told Israel's Army Radio. "The Egyptian proposal includes a halt to all kind of (military) activity," he said. "What this proposal, if it is accepted, means is that, willy-nilly, Hamas did not manage to make good on its intentions."
Sami Abu Zuhri, a Hamas spokesman in Gaza, said earlier on Tuesday that the Islamist group had not received an official ceasefire proposal, and he repeated its position that demands it has made must be met before it lays down its weapons.
Hamas's armed wing, the al-Qassam Brigades, rejected the reported text of the truce deal, saying: "Our battle with the enemy continues and will increase in ferocity and intensity."
ROCKETS IN EILAT
The worst Gaza flare-up in two years has killed no one in Israel, largely due to its Iron Dome anti-missile system. But the frequent rocket salvoes have disrupted life as air raid sirens sent people in much of the country racing to shelters.
In what may have been an effort to upstage Cairo's mediation, three rockets were launched from the Egyptian Sinai at the southern Israeli resort of Eilat, wounding four people, Israeli officials said. They said the salvo was likely fired by Islamist fighters hostile to Israel and the Egyptian government.
Under the proposal announced by Egypt's Foreign Ministry "de-escalation arrangements" would take effect at 0600 GMT, pending implementation of a full truce within 12 hours after.
High-level delegations from Israel and the Palestinian factions would hold separate talks in Cairo within 48 hours to consolidate the ceasefire with "confidence-building measures".
The Arab League said in a statement it welcomed the Egyptian initiative "to protect the lives of the innocent."
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, who reached an agreement with Hamas in April that led to the formation of a unity government last month, welcomed the proposal and urged its acceptance, official Palestinian news agency WAFA said.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will hold talk with Egyptian officials in Cairo on situation on Tuesday, Egypt's state news agency said. In Washington, U.S. President Barack Obama on Monday spoke positively of the emerging ceasefire.
Reiterating U.S. support for Israel in the face of Hamas's "inexcusable" attacks and concern for Palestinian civilian casualties, Obama said in a speech: "We are encouraged that Egypt has made a proposal to accomplish this (truce) goal which we hope can restore a calm that we've been seeking."
Hours before the proposal was announced, Gaza militants resumed rocket attacks on Tel Aviv after a 24-hour lull, while Israel kept up its strikes in the Gaza Strip and deployed infantry and armour along the frontier.
Israel had mobilised tens of thousands of troops for a threatened Gaza invasion if the rocket salvoes persisted.
"We still have the possibility of going in, under cabinet authority, and putting and end to them (the rockets)," Gilad said.
Late on Monday, Israel bombed the house of Marwan Issa, a top commander of Hamas' armed wing, in Bureij refugee camp.
HAMAS DEMANDS
The surge in hostilities over the past week was prompted by the murder last month of three Jewish seminary students in the occupied West Bank and the revenge killing on July 2 of a Palestinian youth in Jerusalem. Israel said on Monday three Jews in police custody had confessed to killing the Palestinian.
Hamas leaders have said a ceasefire must include an end to Israel's blockade of Gaza and a recommitment to a truce reached in an eight-day war there in 2012. Hamas also wants Egypt to ease restrictions at its Rafah crossing with Gaza imposed after the military toppled Islamist president Mohamed Mursi last July.
But the Egyptian proposal made no mention of Rafah or when restrictions might be eased. It said only that "crossings shall be opened and the movement of persons and goods through (them) shall be facilitated once the security situation becomes stable on the ground".
Hamas has faced a cash crisis and Gaza's economic hardship has deepened as a result of Egypt's destruction of cross-border smuggling tunnels. Cairo accuses Hamas of aiding anti-government Islamist militants in Egypt's Sinai peninsula, an allegation the Palestinian group denies. Hamas has said it wants the release of hundreds of its activists arrested in the West Bank while Israel searched for the three missing teens. The detainees include more than 50 Hamas men freed from Israeli jails in a 2011 prisoner exchange.
The proposed truce made no mention of the detainees in stipulating that "other issues, including security issues, shall be discussed with the sides."
(Additional reporting by Allyn Fisher-Ilan, Maayan Lubell in Jerusalem, Noah Browning in Gaza, Michael Georgy in Cairo, Amena Bakr in Doha and Annika McGinnis in Washington; Writing by Dan Williams and Jeffrey Heller; Editing by Nick Macfie and Andrew Heavens)

Egypt proposes cease-fire for Israel, Hamas
Israeli artillery guards the Israeli-Gaza border July 14.(Photo: Getty Images)
GAZA CITY -- A cease-fire plan proposed by Egypt is the most serious attempt yet by international mediators to end bloody fighting between Israel and Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip.
Hamas' top leader in Gaza confirmed Monday there was "diplomatic movement," while Israel's policy-making Security Cabinet was set to discuss the proposal early Tuesday.
In Washington, President Obama welcomed the proposal to stop the bloodshed.
"We're going to continue to do everything we can to facilitate a return to the 2012 cease-fire," Obama said at a White House dinner celebrating the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. "We are encouraged that Egypt has made a proposal to accomplish that goal."
Arab foreign ministers discussed the plan Monday night at an emergency meeting in Cairo.
Although U.S. officials had said Secretary of State John Kerry was considering a trip to the region to push diplomatic efforts there, Kerry has decided to end his nine-day trip and return to the U.S., according to the Associated Press. He had been in Vienna for talks aimed at halting Iran's nuclear program.
With at least 185 people dead in a week of heavy fighting, both sides have come under increasing international pressure to halt the fighting.
In Washington, White House spokeswoman Bernadette Meehan said the U.S. hopes the plan will lead to calm being restored as soon as possible.
Israel is demanding guarantees of an extended period of quiet, while Hamas seeks an easing of an Israeli-Egyptian blockade on Hamas-ruled Gaza. Israel launched the offensive last week, saying it was a response to weeks of heavy rocket fire out of Gaza.
Egypt's Foreign Ministry announced the three-step plan starting with a temporary cease-fire to go into effect within 12 hours of "unconditional acceptance" by the two sides. That would be followed by the opening of Gaza's border crossings and talks in Cairo between the sides within two days, according to the statement.
In a speech broadcast on Al-Jazeera, Ismail Haniyeh, a Hamas leader in Gaza, confirmed that there was "diplomatic movement."
But on CNN, Hamas spokesman Osama Hamdan called the cease-fire proposal a publicity stunt and "joke.'' However, Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat said he is hopeful that "we may see some real, real serious signs of a possible cease-fire in the next 12-24 hours."
Egypt, the first Arab state to reach peace with Israel, often serves as a mediator between Israel and Hamas.
The Israeli military said three rockets were fired at the southern city of Eilat early Tuesday morning, lightly injuring two people and sparking a fire. The military said it did not immediately know who was behind the rocket fire. Previous rocket attacks on Eilat were from radical Islamic militants in the neighboring Sinai Peninsula.
Israel's military said that it shot down an unmanned drone along its southern coastline, the first time it has encountered such a weapon since its struggle with Gaza Strip militants began last week.
The military said the drone came from Gaza and was downed by a Patriot missile near the southern city of Ashdod.
The development comes as thousands of residents are fleeing northern Gaza at the urging of the Israeli military and as Israel's ground troops briefly crossed the border Sunday on a mission to destroy a launching site used by militants.
"We (left) after Israel threatened to bomb our house," said Samar Elewa, 19, of Bet Lahiya, in northern Gaza Strip. "We did not know where to go. We found other families walking on the street, and we decided to go to the UNRWA (the United Nation's refugee agency) school."
"In the school, we can't sleep -- I feel like we are refugees in our own country," said Elewa.
Since the conflict began, militants have fired nearly 1,000 rockets at Israel, causing some injuries and damage to property, but no fatalities among Israelis. By contrast, 175 Palestinians have died as a result of Israel's air attacks. More than 1,200 have been injured, Gaza's health ministry said.
The use of drones with an offensive capacity could inflict significant casualties -- something the rockets from Gaza have failed to do, largely because of the success of the Israeli military's "Iron Dome" air-defense system in shooting them down.
"Hamas is trying everything it can to produce some kind of achievement, and it is crucial that we maintain our high state of readiness," Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Yaalon said. "The shooting down of a drone this morning by our air-defense system is an example of their efforts to strike at us in any way possible."
Monday night, the military wing of Hamas briefly hacked news coverage on Channel 10, one of Israel's two commercial broadcasters. Government websites also reportedly were hacked.
Hamas inserted images of wounded Gazans into the Channel 10 broadcast and the message: "Your government chose the time to launch this campaign. Your government will not agree to our terms, so prepare yourselves for an extended stay in the bomb shelters."
It was not the first time during the latest conflict that the Palestinian group has hacked an Israeli broadcaster, but it was the first time viewers had complained, the Jerusalem Post reported. Channel 10 is carried by U.S. cable companies.
Two weeks ago, the Syrian Electronic Army hacking group posted bogus tweets on the Israeli Army's Twitter account. One claimed the Dimona nuclear facility was leaking.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday that the current Israeli operation could last for "a long time" and that the military was prepared "for all possibilities."
Calls for a cease-fire are growing internationally as casualties mount. Protests have flared in Paris and elsewhere against the Israeli operation, which aims to prevent Hamas and affiliated groups from targeting Israeli territory with rockets.
Contributing: Michele Chabin in Jerusalem; William M. Welch in Los Angeles; Associated Press
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1mBc07I
