Israel approves Egyptian-proposed Gaza truce but Hamas suspicious | Reuters
GAZA/JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel approved an Egyptian-proposed deal that would halt the week-old Gaza shelling war on Tuesday but the Palestinian territory's dominant Hamas Islamists responded suspiciously, saying they had not been consulted by Cairo.
Hamas's armed wing vowed its attacks would "increase in ferocity and intensity" but Palestinian rocket salvoes waned ahead of the mooted start of mutual de-escalation at 0600 GMT.
Israel said there had been two cross-border launches overnight that caused no damage, and that it had bombed 25 sites in Gaza. Palestinian medical officials said a 63-year-old man and a 52-year-old woman were killed - bringing the enclave's death toll to more than 182, most of them civilians.
At Israeli military headquarters in Tel Aviv, the security cabinet convened by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said it voted to approve the truce deal, minutes before it was to come into effect.
Amos Gilad, a senior Israeli defence official and envoy to Cairo, cast the deal positively, saying Hamas had been weakened by the air and sea bombardment of impoverished Gaza. "Look at the balance, and you see that Hamas tried every possible means of striking at Israel while bringing great and terrible damage on its people, from their perspective," Gilad told Israel's Army Radio. "The Egyptian proposal includes a halt to all kind of (military) activity," he said. "What this proposal, if it is accepted, means is that, willy-nilly, Hamas did not manage to make good on its intentions."
Sami Abu Zuhri, a Hamas spokesman in Gaza, said earlier on Tuesday that the Islamist group had not received an official ceasefire proposal, and he repeated its position that demands it has made must be met before it lays down its weapons.
Hamas's armed wing, the al-Qassam Brigades, rejected the reported text of the truce deal, saying: "Our battle with the enemy continues and will increase in ferocity and intensity."
ROCKETS IN EILAT
The worst Gaza flare-up in two years has killed no one in Israel, largely due to its Iron Dome anti-missile system. But the frequent rocket salvoes have disrupted life as air raid sirens sent people in much of the country racing to shelters.
In what may have been an effort to upstage Cairo's mediation, three rockets were launched from the Egyptian Sinai at the southern Israeli resort of Eilat, wounding four people, Israeli officials said. They said the salvo was likely fired by Islamist fighters hostile to Israel and the Egyptian government.
Under the proposal announced by Egypt's Foreign Ministry "de-escalation arrangements" would take effect at 0600 GMT, pending implementation of a full truce within 12 hours after.
High-level delegations from Israel and the Palestinian factions would hold separate talks in Cairo within 48 hours to consolidate the ceasefire with "confidence-building measures".
The Arab League said in a statement it welcomed the Egyptian initiative "to protect the lives of the innocent."
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, who reached an agreement with Hamas in April that led to the formation of a unity government last month, welcomed the proposal and urged its acceptance, official Palestinian news agency WAFA said.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will hold talk with Egyptian officials in Cairo on situation on Tuesday, Egypt's state news agency said. In Washington, U.S. President Barack Obama on Monday spoke positively of the emerging ceasefire.
Reiterating U.S. support for Israel in the face of Hamas's "inexcusable" attacks and concern for Palestinian civilian casualties, Obama said in a speech: "We are encouraged that Egypt has made a proposal to accomplish this (truce) goal which we hope can restore a calm that we've been seeking."
Hours before the proposal was announced, Gaza militants resumed rocket attacks on Tel Aviv after a 24-hour lull, while Israel kept up its strikes in the Gaza Strip and deployed infantry and armour along the frontier.
Israel had mobilised tens of thousands of troops for a threatened Gaza invasion if the rocket salvoes persisted.
"We still have the possibility of going in, under cabinet authority, and putting and end to them (the rockets)," Gilad said.
Late on Monday, Israel bombed the house of Marwan Issa, a top commander of Hamas' armed wing, in Bureij refugee camp.
HAMAS DEMANDS
The surge in hostilities over the past week was prompted by the murder last month of three Jewish seminary students in the occupied West Bank and the revenge killing on July 2 of a Palestinian youth in Jerusalem. Israel said on Monday three Jews in police custody had confessed to killing the Palestinian.
Hamas leaders have said a ceasefire must include an end to Israel's blockade of Gaza and a recommitment to a truce reached in an eight-day war there in 2012. Hamas also wants Egypt to ease restrictions at its Rafah crossing with Gaza imposed after the military toppled Islamist president Mohamed Mursi last July.
But the Egyptian proposal made no mention of Rafah or when restrictions might be eased. It said only that "crossings shall be opened and the movement of persons and goods through (them) shall be facilitated once the security situation becomes stable on the ground".
Hamas has faced a cash crisis and Gaza's economic hardship has deepened as a result of Egypt's destruction of cross-border smuggling tunnels. Cairo accuses Hamas of aiding anti-government Islamist militants in Egypt's Sinai peninsula, an allegation the Palestinian group denies. Hamas has said it wants the release of hundreds of its activists arrested in the West Bank while Israel searched for the three missing teens. The detainees include more than 50 Hamas men freed from Israeli jails in a 2011 prisoner exchange.
The proposed truce made no mention of the detainees in stipulating that "other issues, including security issues, shall be discussed with the sides."
(Additional reporting by Allyn Fisher-Ilan, Maayan Lubell in Jerusalem, Noah Browning in Gaza, Michael Georgy in Cairo, Amena Bakr in Doha and Annika McGinnis in Washington; Writing by Dan Williams and Jeffrey Heller; Editing by Nick Macfie and Andrew Heavens)

Obama: US Prepared to Negotiate Ceasefire in Mideast
President Barack Obama has told Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that the United States is prepared to mediate an end to the violence with Palestinians including a return to the 2012 ceasefire.
The president spoke to Netanyahu by telephone Thursday, another deadly day in the Mideast.
The White House says Obama reaffirmed Israel's right to defend itself from rocket attacks by Hamas militants. But he said he is concerned the violence could escalate and that all sides must do all they can to protect the lives of civilians.
United Nations chief Ban Ki-moon called Thursday for an immediate ceasefire in the Israeli conflict with Hamas militants in Gaza, but neither of the warring sides showed any hint of stopping its attacks.
The UN secretary-general told an emergency meeting of the Security Council that Israel and Hamas "must exercise maximum restraint" to end the fighting.
As Israeli warplanes relentlessly attacked hundreds of Hamas targets in Gaza for a third day, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told a parliamentary committee that a cease-fire is "not even on the agenda."
Hamas continued to fire rockets at the key Israeli cities of Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, although the Jewish state said its Iron Dome missile defense system has knocked down most of them.
Israel has reported no casualties, while Palestinian officials said the death toll in Gaza from the Israeli assault has reached at least 85 militants and civilians, including women and children.
Israel's military said it struck more than 300 targets overnight and has hit at least 750 since Tuesday.
"We are facing long days of fighting and Hamas attempts to surprise Israeli with attacks from the air, sea and land," Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Yaalon said Thursday of the offensive. It began after a buildup of violence following the killings of three Jewish students last month and the murder of a Palestinian teen in a suspected revenge attack.
American response
The United States is trying to stem the violence in a way that allows the Jewish state to continue defending itself from Hamas rocket fire, Secretary of State John Kerry said on Thursday.
Kerry, in Beijing for a summit with Chinese leaders, said it's a "dangerous moment" for the Mideast.
Hundreds of rockets have been fired from Gaza since the teens' slayings.
Kerry said no country can accept such rocket attacks, adding that de-escalating the crisis is ultimately in everyone's interests.
Kerry said he has spoken with Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to see if there is some way to restore peace.
Hamas attacks
Hamas spokesman Mushir Al Masri vowed the group would keep on fighting and strike at Israel from the land, sea and air.
Rockets from Gaza have struck parts of central and southern Israel, disrupting the lives of people there but so far causing no serious casualties.
The military said Israel's Iron Dome intercepted at least one rocket Thursday over Tel Aviv, Israel's second-largest city, located about 60 kilometers north of Gaza. The system also intercepted another rocket just east of the Palestinian territory.
Overall, Israel's Iron Dome interceptor has shot down some 90 percent of Palestinian rockets during this week's surge of Gaza fighting, up from the 85 percent rate in the previous miniwar of 2012, Israeli and U.S. officials said Thursday.
United Nations emergency session
Ahead of the Security Council meeting, Ban condemned the rocket attacks and called the surge in violence "one of the most critical tests the region has faced in years."
"Gaza is on a knife-edge. The deteriorating situation is leading to a downward spiral which could quickly get beyond anyone's control," he said. "The risk of violence expanding further still is real. Gaza, and the region as a whole, cannot afford any other full-blown war."
He condemned the rocket attacks from Gaza and expressed concern about the number of civilians killed by Israeli airstrikes.
Bombings
Across the Gaza Strip, plumes of smoke and rubble marked the aftermath of Israeli attacks in the most serious outbreak of hostilities between Palestinian militants and Israel's powerful armed forces in two years.
"The Jews say they are fighting Hamas and fighting gunmen, while all the bodies we have seen on television are those of women and children," said Khaled Ali, 45, a Gaza taxi driver.
Israel accuses Hamas Islamists of deliberately putting innocent Palestinians in harm's way by placing weaponry and gunmen in residential areas.
Netanyahu, in a statement Wednesday, said Hamas was committing "a double war crime. ... It targets Israeli civilians, while hiding behind Palestinian civilians," he said.
The military said the airstrikes have targeted and destroyed tunnel networks, rocket-launching sites and the homes of Hamas commanders.
As the number of victims in Gaza rose, Egypt opened the Rafah border crossing, with hospitals in north Sinai placed on standby to receive the wounded, Egypt's official MENA news agency reported, according to the French news agency AFP.
Israeli leaders, who have popular support for the Gaza offensive, have also warned the air offensive could be expanded into a ground invasion of one of the world's most densely populated territories.
About 20,000 reservists have been mobilized, the military said.
Robert Berger contributed to this report from Jerusalem. Some information for this report provided by Reuters, AFP and AP.
