Israel renews punishing Gaza campaign
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned the army would "expand and intensify" its Gaza operation after Hamas rejected the Egyptian truce proposal.
The renewed Israeli strikes killed two Gazans, raising the Palestinian death toll in eight days of violence to 194, medics said on Tuesday.
The Israeli was killed in a rocket attack on an Israeli position near the Erez crossing with Gaza, the army said.
Hamas's Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades armed wing said it carried out the attack.
The 38-year-old civilian had been delivering food to soldiers serving in the area, a spokesman for the Israeli emergency services said.
It was the first Israeli death of the conflict after nearly 1000 rockets and mortar rounds hit the Jewish state. Four Israelis have been seriously wounded.
It came after Israel's security cabinet said early on Tuesday it would accept an Egyptian proposal for a ceasefire to begin at 0600 GMT (1600 AEST).
But Hamas officials said they had not been consulted on the proposal and wouldn't halt fire without a full-fledged deal including Israeli concessions.
The movement's armed wing continued to fire dozens of rockets into Israel after the deadline, sending tens of thousands scrambling for cover.
At 1200 GMT (2200 AEST), the Israeli army announced it was resuming air strikes, after militants fired 47 rockets from Gaza.
The fresh raids hit Gaza City, southern Khan Yunis and Rafah and killed two people.
Hamas has said it wants the end of Israel's blockade of Gaza and the opening of the Rafah border crossing with Egypt as part of a truce deal.
It also wants Israel to free Palestinians it rearrested after releasing them in a 2011 exchange for an Israeli soldier held by Gaza militants for more than five years.
Israel launched Operation Protective Edge before dawn on July 8, hitting Gaza with an intensive air and artillery bombardment aimed at stamping out rocket fire.
Since then, 960 rockets have hit Israel, while another 215 have been intercepted by its Iron Dome air defence system, the army said.
