Baird Condemns Hamas for Rejecting Ceasefire | Toronto Star
zoom
OTTAWA--Canada condemned Hamas for rejecting a ceasefire brokered by Egypt in Gaza, adding events of the past 24 hours have proved "Hamas has no interest in peace."
Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird noted Israel temporarily suspended its attacks in Gaza following Egypt's proposal, but resumed them when Hamas fired scores of rockets at Israel. With the proposed halt in fighting undone, the Israeli military responded with more than a dozen airstrikes.
"This ceasefire would have ended eight days of hostilities," Baird told reporters. He said peace is not something Hamas wants to achieve.
"We mourn the deaths and suffering of innocent civilians in Gaza over recent days," Baird said in a reference to the more than 175 people who have died in Gaza in the current conflict.
"Responsibility for these tragic incidents rests with one organization: The buck stops with Hamas," he said.
View 2 photos
zoom
Tsafrir Abayov 				/ The Associated Press
Israeli policemen and army officers carry the remains of a rocket fired from Gaza at the southern Israeli city of Ashkelon on Tuesday
The minister says the conflict isn't between the Palestinian people and Israel or even the Palestinian Authority and Israel.
He says it's a fight between Hamas and Israel, adding Hamas started this bloodshed and Hamas can end it.
Baird says he regrets the loss of life, but says Israel has been left with no choice but to respond to Hamas' attacks.
"We believe that Israel has the right to defend itself," he added. If these attacks were to happen in Canada, Canadians would want the government to do one immediate thing -- "to make it stop."
"And that's exactly what Israel is doing," Baird said.
He said Hamas is using Palestinians as human shields. "We've got to be clear, there's one side (that) is responsible for this, and it's the terrorist group Hamas."
Baird noted that the first Israeli to die in the conflict was killed Tuesday.
Canada will continue to support efforts to bring the conflict to an end, Baird said, but he told the media he had no idea how a ceasefire can be reached.
With files from Canadian Press
