Amit Shah will strengthen BJP at national level: Vasundhara Raje - Economic Times
PTI Jul 9, 2014, 07.58PM IST
(Raje lauded the decision...)
JAIPUR: Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje today congratulated newly-appointed BJP President Amit Shah and exuded confidence that the party will be strengthened with him at the helm.
Raje lauded the decision saying Shah displayed strong leadership qualities and carved his identity at the national level in a short span, especially by crafting BJP's unprecedented victory in Uttar Pradesh in Lok Sabha elections.
She said Shah has been elevated to the post of party president from a dedicated worker owing to his extraordinary leadership and organisational skills.
The Rajasthan Chief Minister expressed hope that BJP would reach out to everyone in the country under his leadership.
Meanwhile, celebrations erupted at the party's state headquarters here and workers burst firecrackers, distributed sweets in the presence of the Party's state president Ashok Parnami and other leaders.
Rajasthan ministers Rajendra Rathore and Arun Chaturvedi, former minister Digambar Singh and other leaders were also present on the occasion.

Gujarat Chief Minister Anandi Patel heaps praises on new BJP president Amit Shah - Economic Times
PTI Jul 9, 2014, 09.03PM IST
(Patel praised Shah for rising...)
AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Chief Minister Anandi Patel congratulated BJP leader Amit Shah on being elected as the new BJP president today.
In her message, Patel praised Shah for rising from a humble party worker during 80s to reach at such a high position in the party by displaying strong organisational skills.
"Amitbhai Shah started his political career with ABVP in 1983 and joined BJP in 1986. He held posts of ward secretary of BJP Yuva Morcha and taluka secretary during his initial days. With his skills and organisational abilities, he became national secretary of BJP," Patel said in a statement here.
The Minister also thanked Shah for leading BJP to a thumping victory in Uttar Pradesh in recent Lok Sabha polls.
"As the in-charge of UP (in 2014 General election), Shah gave unprecedented victory to BJP. Now, as the national president, I am confident that he will bring victory for BJP in other states too," she said.
BJP members in the house welcomed the appointment in the assembly, while party leaders and workers also celebrated Shah's appointment at state party office, Gandhinagar.
