Amit Shah will strengthen BJP at national level: Vasundhara Raje - Economic Times
PTI Jul 9, 2014, 07.58PM IST
(Raje lauded the decision...)
JAIPUR: Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje today congratulated newly-appointed BJP President Amit Shah and exuded confidence that the party will be strengthened with him at the helm.
Raje lauded the decision saying Shah displayed strong leadership qualities and carved his identity at the national level in a short span, especially by crafting BJP's unprecedented victory in Uttar Pradesh in Lok Sabha elections.
She said Shah has been elevated to the post of party president from a dedicated worker owing to his extraordinary leadership and organisational skills.
The Rajasthan Chief Minister expressed hope that BJP would reach out to everyone in the country under his leadership.
Meanwhile, celebrations erupted at the party's state headquarters here and workers burst firecrackers, distributed sweets in the presence of the Party's state president Ashok Parnami and other leaders.
Rajasthan ministers Rajendra Rathore and Arun Chaturvedi, former minister Digambar Singh and other leaders were also present on the occasion.

Amit Shah Named President of Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party - WSJ
July 9, 2014 5:41 a.m. ET
NEW DELHI--India's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party named Prime Minister Narendra Modi's close aide, the controversial politician Amit Shah, as the party's next president, cementing Mr. Modi's dominance of Indian politics by effectively putting him in control of both the government and the BJP.
Mr. Shah, a longtime confidante of Mr. Modi, was known as the second-most important man in the western state of Gujarat during Mr. Modi's more than 10-year tenure as the chief minister there.
His rise to the top of the party is credited in large part to his role in Mr. Modi's election campaign, where he delivered parliamentary seats in northern India that were crucial to the BJP's landslide electoral victory in May.
Mr. Shah's elevation is a sign of Mr. Modi's political power, analysts said. The prime minister overrode opposition within the BJP to Mr. Shah, who was charged with murder in connection with the deaths of three people allegedly killed in 2005 by Gujarat police. Mr. Shah denies wrongdoing and says the accusations against him are politically motivated. His lawyers are seeking to have the case dismissed.
Mr. Shah and the prime minister have known each other for decades, and both began their political careers as members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, a Hindu nationalist group. Mr. Shah has strenuously defended Mr. Modi from allegations that he didn't do enough to prevent religious riots in Gujarat in 2002 in which 1,000 people died, most of them Muslims. Mr. Modi denies the charges and an Indian court said last year that there wasn't sufficient evidence to prosecute him.
Mr. Shah's elevation to lead the party, analysts said, could allow Mr. Modi to consolidate power. Few Indian leaders in recent years have been as strong, and most have had to answer to various masters, including demanding coalition partners and competing party bosses.
Mr. Modi's predecessor, Manmohan Singh, was often overshadowed by Congress-party boss Sonia Gandhi, who influenced the selection of cabinet ministers and sometimes intervened on policy questions.
Mr. Modi's convincing election win--which gave one party a majority in the lower house of Parliament for the first time in three decades--freed him of coalition constraints and established him as the unrivaled head of his government. Having Mr. Shah as head of the BJP could tighten Mr. Modi's control of the party as well.
Under Mr. Shah, the BJP is expected to try to expand its influence from its strongholds in northern and western India to establish a presence across the country. A person familiar with the matter said the party is laying the groundwork for a "post-Congress India," as it moves to supplant a shrunken Congress, which suffered its worst election results in its history.
"I'm sure Amit Shah will work to take the stature of the Bharatiya Janata Party to new heights," the party's former president, Rajnath Singh, said at a news conference Wednesday.
Mr. Shah's legal troubles could undermine his effectiveness. In addition to the murder case, a judicial investigation in Gujarat is also probing allegations that Mr. Shah asked state police to illegally monitor the movements of a woman. The BJP denies that any illegal snooping was conducted.
Mr. Shah also stirred up controversy during the campaign by giving a speech in an area where Muslims and Hindus had rioted just a few months earlier, calling the election one of "honor and revenge." The country's election watchdog temporarily banned him from campaigning after the statements, calling them inflammatory.
Mr. Shah said he was referring to revenge for years of unemployment and a lack of development.
