Amit Shah will strengthen BJP at national level: Vasundhara Raje - Economic Times
PTI Jul 9, 2014, 07.58PM IST
(Raje lauded the decision...)
JAIPUR: Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje today congratulated newly-appointed BJP President Amit Shah and exuded confidence that the party will be strengthened with him at the helm.
Raje lauded the decision saying Shah displayed strong leadership qualities and carved his identity at the national level in a short span, especially by crafting BJP's unprecedented victory in Uttar Pradesh in Lok Sabha elections.
She said Shah has been elevated to the post of party president from a dedicated worker owing to his extraordinary leadership and organisational skills.
The Rajasthan Chief Minister expressed hope that BJP would reach out to everyone in the country under his leadership.
Meanwhile, celebrations erupted at the party's state headquarters here and workers burst firecrackers, distributed sweets in the presence of the Party's state president Ashok Parnami and other leaders.
Rajasthan ministers Rajendra Rathore and Arun Chaturvedi, former minister Digambar Singh and other leaders were also present on the occasion.

Top India Stories From WSJ: Amit Shah Named President of India's BJP, India Expects Faster Economic Growth - India Real Time - WSJ
Your daily round-up of the best of The Wall Street Journal's India coverage:
Amit Shah Named President of India's BJP: India's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party named Prime Minister Narendra Modi's close aide, the controversial politician Amit Shah, as the party's next president, cementing Mr. Modi's dominance of Indian politics by effectively putting him in control of both the government and the BJP.
India Expects Faster Economic Growth: India's economy will improve this fiscal year, the government predicted on Wednesday, as a gradual increase in investment helps revive activity, although high inflation and political rumblings in other countries pose hurdles to a strong recovery.
India's New-Car Sales Up 10% in June: New car sales in India gained the most in 10 months in June as a new government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi helped improve consumer sentiment, but a full-fledged recovery for the once-flourishing industry may still be sometime away, the local association of auto makers said on Wednesday.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @WSJIndia
