Amit Shah will strengthen BJP at national level: Vasundhara Raje - Economic Times
PTI Jul 9, 2014, 07.58PM IST
(Raje lauded the decision...)
JAIPUR: Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje today congratulated newly-appointed BJP President Amit Shah and exuded confidence that the party will be strengthened with him at the helm.
Raje lauded the decision saying Shah displayed strong leadership qualities and carved his identity at the national level in a short span, especially by crafting BJP's unprecedented victory in Uttar Pradesh in Lok Sabha elections.
She said Shah has been elevated to the post of party president from a dedicated worker owing to his extraordinary leadership and organisational skills.
The Rajasthan Chief Minister expressed hope that BJP would reach out to everyone in the country under his leadership.
Meanwhile, celebrations erupted at the party's state headquarters here and workers burst firecrackers, distributed sweets in the presence of the Party's state president Ashok Parnami and other leaders.
Rajasthan ministers Rajendra Rathore and Arun Chaturvedi, former minister Digambar Singh and other leaders were also present on the occasion.

Does BJP have 'limited talent': Congress on Amit Shah's appointment - Economic Times
PTI Jul 9, 2014, 11.24PM IST
("The nation is absolutely...)
NEW DELHI: Congress today raked up the issue of the Sohrabuddin fake encounter case to attack BJP over the naming of Amit Shah as the new party chief and asked whether there was "limited talent" in the saffron outfit that it had appointed an accused to the top post.
"The nation is absolutely mystified that BJP has found no better person and fallen back on a murder accused on bail and externed for two years from a part of India. Do they have limited talent," Congress spokesman Abhishek Singhvi told reporters here.
Singhvi said that although Congress is "not normally interested, nor comments" on internal appointments of other parties, he was reacting on this issue as it was "unprecedented" for a party in power to make an appointment of such a person.
Singhvi said he was reacting on the basis of "objective facts" and remarked that Shah could not go to his native state of Gujarat between 2010 and 2012 because of his "externment".
The Congress reaction came hours after Shah -- who ensured a handsome showing for BJP in the crucial state of Uttar Pradesh in the Lok Sabha elections -- was appointed the BJP president, marking Gujarat's firm grip over the ruling dispensation after Narendra Modi's elevation as Prime Minister.
Shah, a close aide of Modi, was appointed to the BJP top post at a meeting of the party's Parliamentary Board where incumbent Rajnath Singh resigned following a tenure of one-and -a-half years.
