Amit Shah to rule UP BJP through his trusted men like Sunil Bansal, others - Economic Times
Man Mohan Rai, ET Bureau Jul 10, 2014, 06.56AM IST
(It was Shah's impending...)
LUCKNOW: Amit Shah who conquered Uttar Pradesh for his mentor Narendra Modi may have assumed a national role with his appointment as the chief of the BJP, but he would definitely keep an eye on the state's affairs. It was Shah's impending elevation as BJP's national president which was behind some key changes in the party in UP, aimed at ensuring that he continues to maintain an iron grip on the unit through his trusted men.
Shah's key aide Sunil Bansal was quietly elevated to the crucial post of general secretary in charge of organisation in UP on June 14.
While this was seen as a just reward for Bansal's stewardship of the party's hi-tech election control room during the parliamentary polls, Bansal would also serve as the eyes and ears of Amit Shah in UP even while he is away from the state carrying out national duties. In the BJP scheme of things, the post of general secretary-organisation is the crucial link between the party and its ideological parent, RSS.
"I have recently been appointed the general secretary in UP and my duties would be decided soon by the party and the new president. We have already started working to consolidate our position in UP and carry the party's view to the smallest village in the state," Bansal told ET, adding that he would "sit down with him (Shah) in the next few days to chart our next action plan".
Besides being in the same age bracket, Shah, 49 and Bansal, 44, share a common background in the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad where they took their first steps in party politics. Bansal, who got elected as the general secretary of Rajasthan University Student Union in 1989, has also been a longtime RSS pracharak. He enjoys the complete faith of Shah who specially roped him in to handle the election control room based in Lucknow.
"Bansal worked tirelessly to appoint booth workers in remotest corners. He ensured that we had at least one party worker in each village and an in charge in each polling booth...," said state BJP spokesman Chandramohan, who has worked closely with Shah and Bansal.
