A's, Scott Kazmir dominate Giants - San Jose Mercury News
SAN FRANCISCO -- If the last four days were any indication, a rematch of the 1989 World Series would be as big a wipeout as the original.
Of course, the A's of 25 years ago swept the Giants in four fairly lopsided games. This year's model managed to take only three of four in the annual home-and-home, but the lasting imprint was that of Oakland domination after a 6-1 victory behind Scott Kazmir on Thursday at AT&T Park.
In the A's three wins, they limited the Giants to one or zero runs. The aggregate score for the series was 19-7. They defeated San Francisco's All-Star ace Madison Bumgarner in one game, and in the finale, beat up on one of their own former favorites, Tim Hudson.
Oakland Athletics' Steve Kazmir (26) throws seven shut out innings against the San Francisco Giants at AT&T Park in San Francisco, Calif., on Thursday, July 10, 2014. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group) ( Karl Mondon )
To be sure, if the A's needed an exclamation point to show themselves a superior team to the Giants right now, the last game was it. Kazmir (11-3) was once again brilliant, throwing seven shutout innings, allowing three hits, walking one and striking out nine.
Kazmir has had a bunch of these kinds of starts, but even though he's a newbie to the Giants-A's rivalry, he considered this victory -- and the A's performance in taking the four-game set -- a little extra special.
"I think so, especially the way the crowd's been," Kazmir said. "It's almost been a playoff atmosphere the past four games. It gets you pumped for the series. It's the first time I've experienced it, and it's everything I heard about and expected."
Manager Bob Melvin is simply astounded by Kazmir's consistent quality. It was the 11th time in 19th starts that he limited the opposition to one run or fewer.
"They seem like they're all the same to me," Melvin said. "He gives up zero, one or two runs, gets you deep in the game, and we didn't do him any favors defensively. One inning, we gave (the Giants) close to six outs, and he still got through it with no runs. He's been as consistent as anybody in the league ... both leagues."
Kazmir didn't dodge his ability to deal dirty against the Giants on this day.
"I felt good from Pitch One," he said. "I mixed up a couple different looks, and it was effective for me. I got a couple runs early in the game, felt comfortable out there and just attacked the strike zone."
Kazmir has been tough virtually every start, but when he gets offensive support, it's pretty much a done deal -- he's 11-0 when the A's have scored three runs or more. The A's chipped away in the early innings, with single runs in the second and fifth, then unloaded on Hudson with a four-run sixth.
Josh Donaldson drove in two sixth-inning runs with his 20th home run, fitting for a guy who was named to compete in the All-Star Home Run Derby earlier in the day. Few right-handed hitters put balls onto the right field pavilion, but Donaldson drove a first-pitch Hudson offering that easily cleared the wall.
Both of Donaldson's hits were to the opposite field, a good sign that he's starting to hit a groove. And if he's driving the ball to right, that's an even better omen.
"We had a runner at second base and I just wanted to get him over that at-bat," Donaldson said. "I was able to drive it and hit it out of the park."
Yet another hero on this day was Stephen Vogt, who extended his career-best hitting streak to 10 games with a pair of two-out RBI hits, the second against tough lefty Javier Lopez. Vogt is hitting .457 during his 10-game streak, but he's also been a monster with two outs and runners in scoring position -- 7 for-17 (.412).
"Those two-out RBIs are your favorite hits, because you have to get a hit in order to score runs, so they're awesome," Vogt said. "I feel like myself, to be quite honest. I was really hungry to come back up after having some success last year, but now I feel more comfortable. I'm just playing baseball."
So are the A's, who have won seven of eight and 11 of 15 in matching an Oakland franchise-best 58 wins after 92 games. They've also won seven of their last nine against the Giants dating back to 2012.
Melvin said before the game that Josh Reddick (knee) will likely head out on a rehab assignment when the A's go to Seattle this weekend. Left-handed pitcher Drew Pomeranz (fractured right hand) could be close behind him.
49ers coach Jim Harbaugh and Melvin had a long chat near the A's dugout before the game. "I told him he could talk to anybody he wants, but just stay away from (Jeff) Samardzija," Melvin said.	Samardzija was a star receiver at Notre Dame who likely could have played in the NFL.
Contact Carl Steward at csteward@bayareanewsgroup.com. More darting on Twitter at twitter.com/stewardsfolly.
Purdy: Oakland showed its might against San Francisco, but don't make too much of four games in July. PAGE 5
All-Star Donaldson to join A's teammate Cespedes in Home Run Derby. PAGE 5
