Vincenzo Nibali regains yellow jersey as Alberto Contador crashes out | Sport | The Guardian
Blood had been expected along the zigzagging paths towards La Planche des Belles Filles but not such an abrupt kill. Yet on another wild day at this year's Tour de France two moments of the highest drama tilted this year's race perhaps decisively towards the Italian Vincenzo Nibali.
The first came halfway through stage 10, high up Le Markstein, where the air was thinned of oxygen and thickened with fog. Even so, one could make out Alberto Contador - his right tibia broken after an early crash - patting his Saxo-Tinkoff team-mate Michael Rogers fondly on the back, before struggling off his bike and into his team car.
Two hours later Nibali - teeth clenched, yellow helmet jigging excitedly - surged past his rivals in a curt display of acceleration and authority to win the stage, 15 seconds clear of Thibault Pinot with Alejandro Valverde five seconds further back in third.
It was on La Planche des Belles Filles two years ago that Team Sky blasted the peloton apart, with Chris Froome winning the stage and Bradley Wiggins slipping into yellow. This time Nibali did it solo, powering past Joaquim Rodriguez with 1.2km to go, to regain the yellow jersey he had relinquished on Sunday.
If the Italian keeps his form it is hard to see him losing the Tour now. Certainly Sky's Richie Porte, who finished 25 seconds behind on the day to move into second on general classification, 2min 23sec behind, knows it will be hard to find a weakness that is yet to reveal itself. Porte said: "I felt good but it's not great to be towing everyone to the line. But when Vincenzo goes you have to respond. He's got enough time already. You don't really want him to get any more."
Inevitably thoughts returned to Contador - the latest high-profile victim of a race that has now lost Mark Cavendish, Froome and him in the opening 10 days. The Spaniard, favourite for this year's Tour after Froome abandoned with a broken wrist, had attempted to ride on after crashing on the descent of the day's second climb, the 1,163m Petit Ballon. But as the yellow jersey group drifted away, pain and reality bit hard.
There were rumours that Contador's bike frame had snapped, causing him to fall. It was also suggested that a bike had fallen off the team car and on to Contador. Both were denied by Saxo-Tinkoff. Once TV cameras had missed the crash, speculation was inevitably going to follow.
Later the Belgian rider Jurgen van den Broeck said that Contador had crashed trying to overtake the peloton on the descent of the Petit Ballon, when he hit a pothole in the road at 65kph and flew over his handlebars. Other riders said Contador hit a rock.
It took time for the medical team to reach him and for his right knee to be wrapped; time too for his bike to be fixed and cleats altered. When Contador finally got moving he had lost four minutes on the peloton. Progress was interrupted twice more: to talk to his Saxo-Tinkoff sporting directeur, Bijarne Riis, and then to speak to the medical wagon.
It was all to no avail. Contador kept going for another 20km but with 77km of the stage remaining he decided to abandon.
The tone for the day was set from the moment the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, lowered his flag and a group of desperados charged away from the peloton on the flat 20km out of Mulhouse. Many of those in the breakaway were French, keen to show their faces and sponsor's jerseys.
Among them was Tommy Voeckler, who even at 35 craves attention more than a precocious toddler. Also there was Tony Martin, in spite of Sunday's heroics where he had ridden 59km solo to win the stage into Mulhouse, trying to get his Omega Pharma-Quickstep team-mate Michal Kwiatkowski into yellow. But the man making the most striking impression was Purito Rodriguez. The Spaniard has expected very little from himself on this Tour, after injuring himself in a crash in the Giro in May, yet rode himself into the King of the Mountains jersey.
With 20km remaining energy suddenly drained from Martin's legs and it was enough for the German to haul his bike up the road. While Kwiatkowski and Rodriguez pressed on, the Lotto-Belisol group of Tony Gallopin chugged away in metronome, trying to keep possession of the maillot jaune. On Sunday night Gallopin received a congratulatory call from the French president Francois Hollande, while having a massage. Now there was suffering of a different kind.
It all came down to the day's final climb. La Planche des Belle Filles has a lyrical name derived from a grizzly legend: an apocryphal story in which local girls, fearing torture by the Swedish Army in the thirty years' war, killed themselves by jumping into a lake. Afterwards a soldier engraved an epitaph for the beautiful girls on a board. This time it was Rodriguez writing his own epitaph, first leaving Kwiatkowski behind and then leaving Rodriguez - and spectators - gasping.
Today the riders have their first rest day, although Nibali appears to have plenty in the tank. A few minutes before his devastating final strike he was happily chatting to his his team-mate Jakob Fuglsang. The evidence suggests that it is his to lose. Then again, given what has happened in the Tour so far, it would be foolish to be too forthright in predictions.

Porte moves to second in Tour
By Australian Associated Press
Published: 05:50 GMT, 15 July 2014 | Updated: 05:50 GMT, 15 July 2014
LA PLANCHE DES BELLES FILLES, France, July 14 AFP - Richie Porte is firmly in contention to become Australia's second Tour de France champion after the race was turned on its head yet again.
The crash and withdrawal of title favourite Alberto Contador during a tumultuous 10th stage on Bastille Day completely changes the dynamics in this Tour of seismic shocks.
It is a major boost to Porte's chances for his first podium finish at the Tour.
Contador's disaster came five days after Porte's Sky team-mate and defending champion Chris Froome was also forced out of the Tour because of crash injuries.
Froome's departure meant Porte became the new team leader, opening the door for his unlikely title bid.
Porte did well in the brutal 10th stage, which featured more wet weather, finishing seventh on the day and improving from fifth to second overall.
The last time an Australian was this well-placed after stage 10 was two years ago, when Cadel Evans was defending his historic title and eventually finished seventh.
But Porte is still two minutes, 23 seconds behind Italian star Vincenzo Nibali, who won stage 10 and reclaimed yellow ahead of the first rest day.
As he won the stage, Nibali put 20 seconds into Porte on the steep final climb to the finish at the ski station of La Planche des Belles Filles in the Vosges region.
The Italian also was marginally better than Porte at the first summit finish in stage eight.
So the early signs are that regardless of how well Porte rides in the time trial on the second-last day, Nibali might be too strong for him in the upcoming mountain stages through the Alps and Pyrenees.
But as Porte also noted after stage 10, it has become folly to predict what will happen in this drama-filled Tour.
"Obviously Vincenzo is in a great position, but we've seen today that things can happen out on the road," Porte told the cyclingnews website.
"We take it day by day.
"Going into the first rest day, I am quite happy where I am ... I think the race is not over yet."
It is definitely over for Contador, who fell twice in treacherous conditions during stage 10.
The 31-year-old Spaniard suffered a leg fracture and a badly-bloodied knee.
Although he gamely tried to continue after receiving treatment from the race doctor, the two-time Tour champion lasted only another 15km.
It means that there are no former Tour champions left in the race.
Just before leaving the race Contador received a consoling hug from Australian Michael Rogers, his chief lieutenant.
Nibali overhauled lone escapee Joaquim Rodriguez in the final kilometre to win the stage by 15 seconds from Frenchman Thibaut Pinot.
With 3km left, Nibali launched his attack and no-one could respond.
Porte led the chase but he paid for that in the finish as several other riders accelerated past him.
Home favourite Tony Gallopin led the Tour for Bastille Day and it proved a one-day reign as he lost nearly five minutes.
Share or comment on this article
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
