Tour de France 2014: Simon Yates suffers as he heads into the unknown | Sport | The Guardian
As the Tour de France heads south towards the Alps, its youngest survivor, the 21-year-old Briton Simon Yates, accepts that he is heading into the unknown. "I couldn't tell you what the stages look like from now on. This is as far as I've ever raced back to back and I'll just take it day by day from here. I could wake up tomorrow and be knackered."
Unlike many of the 180 riders left in the field Yates has not had a crash of note, merely a slight "face plant" on stage one and a few episodes when he has "landed on his feet". The strain of his first Tour is beginning to show, however, he acknowledges. "I've ended up getting a little sick the last two or three days - I've got a chesty cough, runny nose and such. The rest day has come at the perfect time."
The Tour has, he says, "been everything I expected. You can never be ready for your first Tour, especially because I was called up so late and wasn't expecting it, but I knew it would be hectic. Watching the Tour [when you are] growing up you know how nervous the first week is so I was ready for that. It wasn't really a surprise that I was so nervous."
Yates believes he is over the worst of his cold, which he puts down to "going deep on the day of the breakaway" - a reference to Saturday, when he spent the bulk of the stage at the head of affairs before being swept up on the final climb.
"It wasn't just the end but the start as well. The first hour was 52 kilometres per hour, there are 50 guys who want to be in the break as well, I was flat out for however long - as hard as I could go - and once the break has gone it was flat out to stay away from the peloton. Then in the finale there are five guys who want to win so you're all going flat out again."
The other Briton still in the Tour, Geraint Thomas, has survived a series of crashes - three in two days and even a bee sting - to go towards the Alps in 14th overall, but he does not believe the race is more dangerous this year than in the past. "Every year we're like: 'God, so many crashes.' But it's the same every year. I'm sure if we went back and had a look last year we'd see it was the same."
Thomas and his leader, Richie Porte - who has stepped into the role at Team Sky since Chris Froome abandoned on stage five with a broken wrist - believe that the race leader, Vincenzo Nibali, and his Astana team can prove vulnerable in the next 10 days.
"[Richie] can go all the way," said Thomas. "It's a great position we're in. It would have been quite easy to get down and disappointed after Froomey went but we've just been sticking together and enjoying it. Astana are strong but they're going to be getting tired. A lot more can happen. Look how much has happened in the first 10 days."
"Anyone is beatable," was the view of Porte, who lies second overall. "[Nibali] is in a great position and he has a great team that has controlled this race really well. We've seen that this Tour throws in surprises everywhere so it's not over until Paris. We have to attack him now. It's our race to take to him and I'm sure [Alejandro] Valverde and all these guys coming into the Pyrenees will." Froome, he said, has been offering him tactical advice.
Nibali concedes that, in spite of the absence of Froome and Alberto Contador, and his 2min 23sec lead over Porte, the race remains open. "You shouldn't underestimate anyone. Any day can produce a surprise."
Wednesday's 187.5km run southwards through the Jura could be one of those days. It looks like a stage for the sprinters who can also climb - a list headed by Peter Sagan, for whom a stage win is several days overdue. With four climbs listed in the final 50km, topping out at 998m, the most likely scenario will be for the Slovak sprinter's team, Cannondale, to set a searing pace late in the stage to burn off the heavier speedsters such as Marcel Kittel.
However, there is enough climbing elsewhere in the stage to make this suitable for a more serious attempt to destabilise Nibali, along the lines of Sunday's mass attack led by the French team Europcar. It has more than a hint of what the French call une etape piege, which can be roughly translated as "a pitfall", although almost every stage of the Tour so far seems to have contained a trap of some kind.
