Nicki Minaj Supports Iggy Azalea Following BET Awards Comments | Music News | Rolling Stone
Nicki Minaj
Michael Tran/FilmMagic
Nicki Minaj has clarified some of the things she said (and appeared to imply) regarding her feelings toward Iggy Azalea during her acceptance speech for Best Female Hip-Hop Artist at the BET Awards.
At the show, Minaj claimed that anything she rapped, she wrote and then made a series of gestures that were widely presumed to be directed at Azalea, followed by Minaj saying, "No shade." At the time, it seemed to be in reference to Azalea allegedly hiring ghostwriters like T.I. for her raps, and became such a cause celebre that it topped Rolling Stone's Everything Index for the week. Now Minaj has praised Azalea in a series of tweets.
The 45 Best Albums of the Year So Far
"The media puts words in my mouth all the time and this is no different," she wrote. "I will always take a stance on women writing because I believe in us! I believe we're smart enough to write down our own thoughts and perspective, just like the men do. I've been saying this for five years.
"I fell in love with Lauryn Hill because I knew she was the author behind those amazingly profound and articulated songs on the The Miseducation [of Lauryn Hill]," she continued. "I wondered how Lauryn tapped into my brain and wrote an album on love, betrayal, passion, pain, triumph, brokenness. Did she read minds? It's the same reason I have a different level of respect for Missy [Elliot]. I know she's a writer and a producer. Women must aspire for more.
"I've congratulated Iggy on the success of 'Fancy,' publicly," she concluded. "She should be very proud of that. All the women nominated should be proud. That will never change my desire to motivate women to write. Our voices have to be heard. I hope I inspire up-and-coming females to do that."
Aside from her comments, Minaj told the BET Awards audience that she planned to release her next record, The Pink Print, before the year is up. The first single she has released from the album is an anti-hater ballad, "Pills N Potion," for which she made a video that featured the Game, who loses his head -- literally -- in the clip.
