Nicki Minaj vs. Iggy Azalea: Where's the beef?
By Lisa Respers France, CNN
June 30, 2014 -- Updated 1929 GMT (0329 HKT)
Rappers Nicki Minaj and Iggy Azalea may have beef after Minaj made a dig at the BET Awards about writing her own rhymes. Some took that as a not-so-subtle jab at Azalea. If there is brewing beef, they wouldn't be the first celebs to have a feud....
When Angela Bassett was asked about casting Whitney Houston's daughter, Bobbi Kristina Brown, in the biopic she's directing about the late singer, Bassett responded that she never thought to do it for several reasons, "one being that (Brown's) not an actress." Bobbi Kristina did not take kindly to the comment and tweeted some disparaging words about the actress.
Rihanna's bare-it-all style is catching flak from the ladies of TLC. "Every time that I see you, you don't have to be naked," T-Boz said during a recent interview with an Australian media outlet. "We became the biggest-selling girl group of all time with our clothes on." Rihanna's response? A series of pointed subtweets and a new Twitter header that shows a topless TLC.
Charlie Sheen is also unhappy with Rihanna. Sheen tweeted that the singer declined to meet him and his gal pal when they all landed at the same restaurant in May. The actor went on a bit of a Twitter rant saying, "it was a pleasure NOT meeting you." We think Rihanna might have responded when she tweeted, "If that old queen don't get ha diapers out of a bunch..."
Katy Perry got a tongue-lashing from Miley Cyrus after she dissed the younger singer's hygiene on an Australian morning show March 4. The two have appeared to reconcile -- on Twitter, of course.
An argument on the set of "In Living Color" has apparently put Rosie Perez and Jennifer Lopez at odds for the past 20 years. As Perez alleges in a new memoir, Lopez "went off (like) some ghetto biatch, screaming and pounding her chest" while they were working together on the show. Perez claims Lopez made "disparaging comments" about her even after leaving the show.
Drake was the subject of a glowing profile in a February issue of Rolling Stone, but one quote had the Canadian rapper seeing red. The magazine claimed Drake was critical of Kanye West's album "Yeezus," which Drake said never happened. To add insult to injury, Rolling Stone took the cover from Drake at "the last minute," the rapper tweeted. "I'm disgusted with that. RIP to Phillip Seymour Hoffman. All respect due. But the press is evil," he said on February 12. In the end, Drake wound up deleting his comments and apologizing.
The Jonas Brothers may still be family, but the trio could no longer take being bandmates. A rep for the group told CNN on October 10 that there is "a deep rift within the band. There was a big a disagreement over their music direction."
The beef between Lady Gaga and Kelly Osbourne dates back to an open letter Gaga wrote, accusing Kelly of being a bully. When Kelly O. saw that Gaga had offered her a birthday cake on October 27, she tweeted, "Not to be ungrateful but why would you send me a birthday cake via my MOTHER in a country half the (world) away? ... #EatMyS***."
Kanye West has given Jimmy Kimmel the rap feud he's always wanted. After Kimmel poked fun at West's interview with the BBC -- in which the entertainer called himself the No. 1 rock star on the planet -- West went to Twitter to air his profane grievances (in all caps, of course). The two later made amends with a televised sitdown.
Rapper Kendrick Lamar not only set Twitter on fire with his guest verses on Big Sean's song "Control," he also stoked the flames of a bit of a hip-hop beef. Lamar called out his fellow lyricists to step up their game, which irritated some and led to rapper Joell Ortiz recording a rebuttal.
After her heart attack in 2012, Rosie O'Donnell received support from an unlikely source: Donald Trump. The two engaged in a pretty high-profile feud in the past, with her calling him a "snake-oil salesman" and Trump retorting that she was a "loser."
Onetime friends Denise Richards and Heather Locklear hit a major impasse after the former started dating the latter's ex, Bon Jovi's Richie Sambora. In interviews, Richards denied that she and Locklear were still friends at the time she began seeing Sambora.
As a teen star, Hilary Duff reportedly dated heartthrob Aaron Carter before he broke up with her to get with Lindsay Lohan -- and then he tossed Lohan aside to win back Duff. The actress told People magazine in 2007 that she and Lohan had made peace.
Yeah, we couldn't believe it either. MC Hammer reportedly took offense to Jay-Z guest-rapping in a Kanye West song ("So Appalled") that "Hammer went broke so you know I'm more focused/I lost 30 mill so I spent another 30/Cuz unlike Hammer 30 mill can't hurt me." Hammer took it to where all celebs take their beefs now -- Twitter -- and released a diss track, "Better Run Run."
Kanye West and Taylor Swift had one of the greatest celeb feuds of all time. The rapper famously grabbed the singer's mic at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards. He later apologized, and she seemed to accept his apology via her song "Innocent."
It appears that rapper Lil' Kim has not taken too kindly to what she views as Nicki Minaj's lack of respect and similar style with the colored wigs and sexually explicit lyrics. The pair have traded insults all over the media.
It's a case of he said/she said/he said. Eminem set it off after he claimed to have had a torrid dating relationship with singer Mariah Carey, who denied it. Her husband, Nick Cannon, even offered to defend her honor by meeting the rapper in the ring.
Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton helped to coin the term "frenemies" after their very public bust-up in 2004. The former "Simple Life" co-stars went on to make up two years later.
Oprah Winfrey was reportedly annoyed by David Letterman's constant joking references to her name when he hosted the Academy Awards in 1995. The late-night talk-show host told "The Daily Show's" Jon Stewart he had also once played a practical joke on Winfrey, convincing a waiter that she had agreed to pick up his tab. They have since made peace.
Gossip blogger Perez Hilton claimed Will.i.am and his security guards attacked him at an awards show over some unkind words he had written about the musician's Black Eyed Peas bandmate Fergie. Will.i.am denied he had anything to do with it.
Tom Cruise got on Brooke Shields' bad side by decrying her use of medication to treat postpartum depression. Shields responded with an op-ed in The New York Times, and Cruise later apologized for his remarks.

STORY HIGHLIGHTS
Some believe Minaj dissed Azalea at the BET Awards
Minaj insists there was "no shade"
Azalea has not responded
(CNN) -- It's not hip-hop without beef, right?
We are still waiting to see if a war of words breaks out between rappers Nicki Minaj and Iggy Azalea after the former offered remarks at the 2014 BET Awards on Sunday that some took to be a diss toward the latter.
Accepting the award for best female hip-hop artist, Minaj referenced writing her own lyrics.
"What I want the world to know about Nicki Minaj," she said,"when you hear Nicki Minaj spit, Nicki Minaj wrote it."
BET Awards: Hits and a Lionel Richie miss
There is talk that Azalea uses ghostwriters for some of her songs, so Twitter was immediately all over the comment.
"So its safe to say there won't be any Nicki & Iggy collabs anytime soon," one viewer tweeted.
So its safe to say there won't be any Nicki & Iggy collabs anytime soon
-- Paula HELLens (@TheHeLLonHeeLs) June 30, 2014
Minaj added "No shade, no shade" about her comment, but that didn't stop the "Minaj throws shade" headlines around the Web.
MTV notes that during Azalea's performance of her hit song "Fancy," Minaj grabbed an opportunity to vamp for the camera when it found her in the audience.
"It's likely this moment will be used as further evidence that Nicki and Iggy have some kind of silent beef brewing," MTV's John Walker wrote.
So far Azalea has been silent on the alleged shade.
Today's five most popular stories
