Busta Rhymes
30 June 2014
Busta Rhymes and The Game were reportedly enjoying a BET Awards after-party when a shooting took place outside the club.
The alleged incident is said to have occurred in the early hours of Monday morning at Supper Club in Los Angeles during a BET Awards after-party.
According to TMZ, a shot was fired outside the club but luckily no one was hit.
Busta Rhymes was reportedly in the venue at the time, along with The Game, Meek Mill and T-Pain.
The shooter managed to escape, but police are trying to track them down.
The BET Awards took place at the Nokia Theatre L.A. LIVE last night and celebrated some of the top names in music, including Pharrell Williams and Beyonce Knowles.
Nicki Minaj picked up the prize for best female hip-hop artist and alluded to her celebrity status in the acceptance speech. She admitted being famous has its downsides and almost caused her not to get help when she needed it recently.
"The other day, literally I didn't tell anybody this, I really thought I was about to die. Like, I was saying my prayers to die. And I didn't even want to call the ambulance because I thought, `Well if I call the ambulance, it's going to be on TMZ,'" she told the crowd.
"And I would rather sit there and die... And it made me realise I don't care what anybody got to say. I'm going to do me."
She also praised the BET Awards and said she hopes they will continue to "honour authenticity".
(c) Cover Media
COMMENT RULES: Comments that are judged to be defamatory, abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted. The moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator's decision is final. It is Belfast Telegraph policy to close comments on court cases, tribunals and active legal investigations. We may also close comments on articles which are being targeted for abuse. Problems with commenting? customercare@belfasttelegraph.co.uk
