Nicki Minaj Genuinely Meant 'No Shade' During Her BET Awards Speech - MTV
by Nadeska Alexis 3 hours ago
The media puts words in my mouth all the time and this is no different. I will always take a stance on women writing b/c I believe in us!
-- PillsNPotions (@NICKIMINAJ) July 2, 2014
Nicki Minaj gave a pretty profound speech at the BET Awards on Sunday night, when she accepted the trophy for Best Female Hip Hop Artist -- but she's really not feeling the way she says her words were twisted and interpreted afterwards.
During the speech, Nicki emphasized that she has always written her own lyrics (something she's very proud of), and that was interpreted as a slight to Iggy Azalea, after that whole Forbes article fiasco. This didn't go unnoticed by the YMCMB rapper, who took to Twitter on Wednesday (July 2) to address the negativity.
"The media puts words in my mouth all the time and this is no different. I will always take a stance on women writing b/c I believe in us!" she wrote. "I believe we're smart enough to write down our own thoughts and perspective, just like the men do. I've been saying this for 5 YEARS."
I fell in love with Lauryn Hill b/c I knew she was the author behind those amazingly profound and articulated songs on the MisEducation
-- PillsNPotions (@NICKIMINAJ) July 2, 2014
"I fell in love with Lauryn Hill b/c I knew she was the author behind those amazingly profound and articulated songs on the MisEducation," Nicki continued. "I wondered how Lauryn tapped into my brain and wrote an album on love, betrayal, passion, pain, triumph, brokenness.... Did she read minds?"
"It's the same reason I have a different level of respect for Missy. I know she's a writer and a producer. Women MUST aspire for more."
And as for all the talk about her throwing shade at Iggy? "I've congratulated Iggy on the success of Fancy, publicly. She should be very proud of that. All the women nominated should b proud," she said. "That will never change my desire to motivate women to write. Our voices have to be heard. I hope I inspire up & coming females to do that."
I've congratulated Iggy on the success of Fancy, publicly. She should be very proud of that. All the women nominated should b proud.
-- PillsNPotions (@NICKIMINAJ) July 2, 2014
P.S. I'd like to point out that if anyone was a direct target of Nicki's comments in that speech, it was probably Ransom.
Watch her BET Awards acceptance speech below.
