Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

Apple-IBM Deal: Trouble For Google, Microsoft
Apple's alliance with IBM will make it harder for Android and Windows Phone to carve a niche in the workplace.
Smartphones Of The Future: 6 Cool Technologies
Apple and IBM on Tuesday announced the formation of a partnership to sell iPhones and iPads to enterprise customers and to develop industry-specific apps backed by IBM cloud services.
It's a deal that will benefit Apple and might help IBM. But its real impact will be closing corporate doors to the competition.
With IBM's help, Apple will sell more iOS devices. That matters to Apple. IBM will profit, too, depending on how much IBM gets per device sold. But IBM will be looking for revenue from consulting, support, and cloud services. And it doesn't appear that Apple will be doing much to convince people to use those services or IBM's iOS apps. That's up to IBM's sales team, assisted perhaps by favorable App Store placement.
Given the low regard people have for the usability and design of enterprise applications -- one enterprise software developer has made a habit of calling IBM Lotus Notes "a crime against humanity" -- the deal's major upside for IBM might be subjecting the company's apps to Apple's approval process.
[Will sleek Siri and powerhouse Watson become the new power couple? Read Apple, IBM Deal: When Siri Meets Watson.]
Perhaps most intriguing is whether Apple wearable devices will be relevant to this deal. Apple is expected to introduce a new wearable product line this fall and its iOS 8 SDK suggests that health apps and data will play an important role. IBM, with its credibility in the healthcare industry, looks like an ideal partner to convince Apple customers to entrust health data to the cloud.
But the potential windfall from the partnership will be constrained by Apple's already considerable success. The company holds a commanding position in the enterprise mobile device market and might not be able to climb much higher. According to CEO Tim Cook, "over 98% of the Fortune 500 and over 92% of the Global 500 [are using] iOS devices in their business today."
Recent figures from mobile device management firm Good Technology suggest slightly more potential for growth. In May, the company reported that among its customers activating mobile devices on its mobile security platform during the first quarter of 2014, 72% ran iOS, 27% ran Android, and 1% ran Windows Phone.
Apple looks poised to keep Windows -- and Google -- mobile devices beaten down in the enterprise.
Compared to the previous quarter, Android activations increased one percentage point while iOS and Windows Phone activations remained flat. In other words, Apple's leadership position in the enterprise mobile market looks fairly secure; neither Google nor Microsoft appear to be gaining market share very rapidly.
Outside the enterprise mobile market, Android dominates and its smartphone market share continues to grow at the expense of its competition. According to IDC, Android had a global first-quarter 2014 market share of 81.1%, compared to 15.2% for iOS and 2.7% for Windows Phone.
An Apple-IBM alliance matters to Google and Microsoft because it is likely to reinforce the lead of iOS in the enterprise market, where Android and Windows Phone have yet to gain much traction.
"Android is struggling to get acceptance in the enterprise due to security concerns and the fact that Android is readily rooted," said Van Baker, VP and research director for Gartner's mobile and client computing services, in an email. "Samsung has addressed this with Knox but this is a recent platform for the enterprise so it is in the early stages of adoption. This partnership will make it more challenging for both Microsoft and Samsung to penetrate the enterprise."
At Google's developer conference in June, Sundar Pichai, SVP of Android, Chrome, and Apps, described API changes in the forthcoming Android "L" release that will provide a secure way to partition personal and corporate applications. He also noted that Samsung has contributed its enterprise security framework called Knox to the Android platform, thereby avoiding fragmented, vendor-specific enterprise security schemes for Android.
Google knows it has to push Android harder in the enterprise market, but Apple's alliance with IBM has made the mountain it must climb that much more steep. Microsoft, after years wandering in the wilderness, has just arrived at the base of the mountain, only to realize it's carrying too much baggage. And no one's quite sure what happened to BlackBerry.
Customer adoption of mobile banking -- whether they bank by smartphone, tablet, or laptop -- has increased exponentially. Join Bank Systems & Technology for a free 60-minute webinar, What's The Right Approach For Delivering Mobile Apps?, to get ideas about how banks can effectively deliver new mobile applications that will engage customers and drive growth. Webinar happens June 26.
Thomas Claburn has been writing about business and technology since 1996, for publications such as New Architect, PC Computing, InformationWeek, Salon, Wired, and Ziff Davis Smart Business. Before that, he worked in film and television, having earned a not particularly useful ... View Full Bio
More Insights
