Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

IBM and Apple, better chance this time? - Therese Poletti's Tech Tales - MarketWatch
By Therese Poletti, MarketWatch
IBM
IBM CEO Ginni Rometty and her counterpart at Apple, Tim Cook
SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- A deal this week forged by former foes IBM Corp. and Apple Inc. in mobile devices has many recalling the dark Orwellian future predicted in the famous 1984 Chiat/Day TV commercial that launched the Macintosh, branded as the personal computer that set you apart from the lemmings following IBM.
But forgotten by many is the fact that these two former foes have worked together before, joined in a fight against the duopoly of Microsoft Corp. MSFT +0.32% and Intel Corp., INTC +1.07% and their dominance of the PC industry. Now they have set their sights on a mutually beneficial relationship in the mobile business, where both companies need help.
In 1991, a far more earth-shattering alliance was formed when IBM IBM -0.86% and Apple AAPL -0.52% announced a joint venture, and one of its missions was to create a new chip to power personal computers, an alternative to the Win-Tel dominance. Then-independent Motorola Inc. was part of the chip venture.
In addition, IBM and Apple formed two software ventures, Taligent, which was originally working on an object-oriented operating system, and Kaleida, which hoped to bring more multimedia features to the PC. While the software ventures ultimately failed, and the PowerPC chips never gained massive share against Intel, the PowerPC was the heart of the Macintosh until Apple switched to Intel in 2006, as well as the core processor for many IBM UNIX-based workstations and servers.
Still, their previous dealings were far from perfect. The ventures were beset by cultural clashes of companies that had been fierce rivals in the personal-computer business since the 1980s and their different agendas. Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook told the Wall Street Journal in an interview on Tuesday that "In '84, we were competitors. In 2014, I don't think you can find two more complementary companies," he said. It is also worth noting that before joining Apple, Cook spent several years at Compaq, and before that, 12 years at IBM.
Today, they appear to be joined by a mutual need to grow their respective businesses: Apple needs to shore up slowing iPhone sales and IBM needs to stave off an overall revenue decline. And while Apple often touts many of its corporate wins on its quarterly conference calls, the issue of tech support for its mobile devices, the iPhone and the iPad, has always been an issue in the "bring your own device" to work environment. The deal will include IBM developing over 100 mobile apps for iOS for specific industries, and Apple will offer a new level of service just for corporate customers.
Charles King, an analyst with Pund-IT Inc., summed up Apple's issues with corporate IT nicely.
"Face it: The last thing IT wants to do when the boss' iPhone craps out is to send a team member down to the Genius Bar," King wrote in an email newsletter, referring to the Apple retail store.
Some on Wall Street were hopeful that the deal would result in improved business for each company. RBC Capital Markets analyst Amit Daryanani wrote in a note that the partnership has "potential galore." However, Gene Munster, an analyst with Piper Jaffray, noted that he believes the consumer remains the most important revenue source for Apple and its business model.
"We note that if half of the Fortune 500 were to each purchase an incremental 2,000 iPhones and 1,000 iPads above what they were planning to purchase as a result of the IBM deal, it would mean about a half a percent to [calendar year] 2015 revenue," Munster wrote in a note Tuesday.
Joined in mutual need, the former foes have found another way to work together. Whether the partnership will be more successful than their earlier ventures, it's too early to tell.
