Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

Google Shouldn't Worry About the Apple, IBM Deal...Yet | News & Opinion | PCMag.com
Despite all the digital ink already spilled over the Apple-IBM partnership, it's not really clear what exactly these companies are going to do. Or how it will actually play out.
Whatever it is, analysts and pundits alike seem to agree on one thing: Google should be very worried. A little simplistic, perhaps, as it depends entirely on the assumption that enterprises will be flocking to an entirely-iOS world just because IBM will be selling iPhones and iPads. These aren't the days of the BlackBerry anymore, thanks to bring-your-own-device (which ironically Apple kickstarted with the first iPhone). The days of enterprises standardizing exclusively on one mobile device platform are long gone.
BYOD accelerated the shift away from devices. Employees don't care about the actual device they are using. They just want to be able to get the information they need, regardless of what they are using or where they are.
Google's executives are going to be watching this partnership closely to see what happens. Are they going to be worried? Probably not. The search giant has a strong enterprise presence, thanks to Google Apps and its suite of Big Data tools delivered as part of the Google Cloud Platform, just to name two of its biggest plays. Google recognizes the fact that enterprises are concerned about the delivery mechanism and the application support, and less on the actual device being used.
Enterprises are still going to see a mix of Android and iOS in their organizations. That isn't going to change.
What is interesting about this deal is the fact the two companies will collaborate on building more than 100 industry-specific applications for iOS. Just iOS. None of these applications will be coming to Android (or Windows Phone or BlackBerry). The apps will target retail, healthcare, banking, travel and transportation, telecommunications, and insurance.
As Apple CEO Tim Cook told Re/Code on Tuesday, "the way to think about this is that there are a lot of killer consumer apps out there...But they were built from a mobile point of view from the ground up. And so they didn't have the legacy of having been built for the desktop ever. A lot of the enterprise stuff started out from the desktop and then migrated to mobile. It's not optimized for mobility."
We are talking about a very specific set of applications, meeting very specific industry needs. Imagine retail point-of-sale tools, applications for medical-imaging devices, and logistics and tracking systems suddenly available on the iPad. (No one is going to use an iPhone to access enterprise apps. The tablet form factor is what the enterprises want.) This is the space Google is going to get nudged out of with IBM and Apple's deal.
The apps are expected to begin arriving this fall, and continue into 2015. It's safe to assume that the first few apps will be fairly straightforward ports, and not apps that would be true game-changers for the industry. Even though IBM and Apple didn't specify what apps to expect, it seems safe enough to assume these would be process-focused software and data analytics tools, much like the ones already available on the IBM Cloud Marketplace. These are tricky applications to bring to mobile, so if IBM and Apple succeed in getting IBM's enterprise software and services on to iOS, then it makes sense that Apple's mobile platform will dominate that specialized segment.
But it's still only one slice of enterprise mobility. This deal isn't going to hand the entire enterprise mobility market over to Apple.
Whatever it is Apple and IBM are going to build together as part of their new partnership, it's safe to assume it's going to be a while before we see anything. Big Blue isn't known for being very nimble. But it will be worth watching. It's just not yet time for anyone to be worried, though.
For more, check out Apple and IBM Bury the Hammer and IBM and Apple Mean Business, as well as Frenemies: A Brief History of Apple and IBM Partnerships.
