Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

Biggest losers (and winner) in Apple-IBM enterprise alliance | ZDNet
Tim Cook of Apple and Ginni Rometty of IBM jointly announced an alliance aiming to put Apple mobile products with IBM software into the enterprise. IBM will develop apps aimed at vertical markets on iPads and iPhones and sell them to its enterprise customers.
This is significant, as it positions Apple to increase its penetration into the enterprise. This is a focus for Apple, as evidenced by using the term "penetration" several times during the announcement. Apple is obviously planning to have iOS become a serious player in the enterprise with this alliance.
ZDNet's Larry Dignan penned an excellent overview detailing the alliance and its likely ramifications. He lists the companies that should be hit the hardest with IBM and Apple working together to get mobile products into the workplace.
IBM bringing iPads in numbers to the cubicle will hit Microsoft and its Surface effort hard.
My take on the biggest losers with this major alliance is a little different from Dignan's. My view looks at both the companies I believe will be hit hardest by this venture, along with fledgling tech that companies are trying to get into the mobile market.
Samsung: While others feel that Android will be hit hard, I find that hard to define. "Android" isn't a business entity, nor a cohesive association. Samsung is the biggest loser on the Android front, by far.
Samsung pretty much is Android from a numbers perspective, and it has both smartphones and tablets like Apple. It's been trying to wedge the corporate door open for a while with its Knox device management and security software.
The Apple/IBM alliance will directly compete with the effort by Samsung, and may knock the Korean firm out of the cubicle.
Android Wear: Before the announcement, I could see a potential market in the enterprise for wearables appearing as a result of Google's Android Wear initiative. That flew out the window with Apple and iBM cozying up together.
I don't believe that wearables are on either Apple's or IBM's radars, and with Android getting shut out of the enterprise as I think will happen, Android Wear will also find the revolving door shut. A vulnerability of Android Wear is the need for Android devices to propel it forward, and if IBM and Apple are successful in worming into the corporate world Android Wear is effectively shut down in the enterprise.
Microsoft: The company in Redmond is firmly ingrained in the enterprise, and that's not going to change any time soon. Microsoft is not invulnerable on the mobile side, however, and that's where it may be impacted with the new alliance of its competitors.
The big push for the Surface tablet, while sort of appealing to consumers, is also looking to get them in the enterprise. That's Microsoft's biggest strength so it makes sense.
IBM bringing iPads in numbers to the cubicle will hit Microsoft and its Surface effort hard. Every iPad used in the corporate world will be one less Surface tablet that might have been there instead. This could have a big impact on Microsoft's fledgling PC business.
Pen input: Tablets that use pens for input have not been popular in the enterprise. While some vertical markets have adopted them for various reasons, most companies have avoided the pen.
Microsoft has been trying to change that with the Surface Pro 3, with ads showing how good pen input can be. I happen to agree with that, but the vast majority of workers don't. Even when a company has deployed tablets with pens in the past, many tell me they stopped when they realized workers don't use the pens.
That was already a hurdle for Microsoft and penetration of the enterprise with the Surface. It won't help when IBM starts developing apps for the iPad that are optimized for touch input, even if a pen would be better.
Workers don't like to use a pen, and once specific work apps are fully optimized to do without, the pen is history. This will hit Microsoft hard with not only the Surface, but with Windows 8.1.
Biggest winner
Some feel that Apple is the biggest winner in the alliance with IBM. It is certainly a coup, no question. As impactful as the deal will likely be for Apple, I think the corporate world is the big winner.
Having an option to go with iPads sporting IBM software will make it easier for companies to go mobile. That is the biggest tech segment by far and having an option to do it properly is a big deal.
The ability to deploy the iPad in volume should have cost reductions over conventional PCs given the industrial-strength AppleCare that will be in place. Apple's hardware support has a reputation as a very good service. Bringing it to the enterprise will shake things up.
While the enterprise is a big winner with the new alliance, consumers may benefit too. BYOD programs should get better, and perhaps even increase in number given the iPad and IBM connection. There's no word if products from the joint venture will be enterprise only, or if companies might offer purchase options to workers for BYOD.
