Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

Opinion
Steven J. Vaughan-Nichols: Who should really worry about Apple/IBM? Microsoft
Sure, the enterprise push by Apple and IBM should worry the Android camp and BlackBerry. But Microsoft is the company with the most to lose.
July 16, 2014 11:09 PM ET
Computerworld - So Apple and IBM are hooking up. It's a match made in enterprise heaven, bringing together BYOD favorites the iPhone and the iPad with enterprise apps and cloud services from IBM. It's a win for Apple, which finally gets some serious business software chops, and for IBM, which gets device sex appeal.
It may be a good deal for IT as well. And then there are the losers.
Android devices are now more likely to come up short in enterprise evaluations. And this deal is just another kick in the keypad for BlackBerry, once the king of the mobile enterprise. Those days are long gone, and, honestly, I'm surprised BlackBerry has made it this far. This deal could spell the end.
But the company that should really be spooked by this deal is Microsoft.
Charles King of Pund-IT suggested that the deal would "hurt Microsoft in particular" because "the users that Apple and IBM will be going after with this deal are exactly in the cross-hairs that Microsoft has been going after in the last few years with Windows Phone."
That's not the half of it.
First, Microsoft's been trying to turn itself into a business services company. Yes, I know, when you think "Microsoft," the first product you think of is Windows. That's old news now.
Don't believe me? Take a look at the memo that Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella sent out earlier this month. Windows is given short shift. This is not Bill Gates or Steve Ballmer's "Nothing is more important at Microsoft than Windows" Microsoft.
Nadella's focus is a "mobile-first, cloud-first" strategy. And where will Apple and IBM be focusing their attention? Why, on mobile devices backed with cloud services.
Yeah, that looks like a head-on collision is just down the road. Who's going to walk away from that crash? Some people are arguing that Microsoft is in a better position because it isn't catering to a single family of devices. Some analysts, such as Patrick Moorhead, of Moor Insights & Strategy, and Ross Rubin, of Reticle Research, believe that the Apple/IBM powerhouse will have very little effect on Microsoft. I, and a few million iPhone and iPad, users beg to differ.
What I find especially amusing is that Moorhead argues that Microsoft offers businesses a better deal because "Microsoft's mobile strategy [supports] Windows, Android and iOS." It's amusing because Microsoft has barely shed its "Windows or bust!" mindset. It's only just started supporting multiple platforms. Are CIOs going to forget all those years of Windows-first history and buy into this new multiplatform vision? I doubt it. Are they more likely to say, "Our users love Apple's iGadgets, and IBM is a proven enterprise power"? I think so.

