Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

Apple and IBM put rivalry to rest with mobile device deal - International | IOL Business | IOL.co.za
Bloomberg
Apple and IBM have entered a deal that aims to unlock the potential of the corporate market for iPhones and iPads. The deal will help Apple expand after a recent slowdown in sales growth, and allow IBM to play catch-up in the mobile device space. Photo: Bloomberg
San Francisco/New York - Apple and IBM are putting aside a rivalry started at the dawn of the personal computing era to get more businesses to embrace iPhones and iPads.
The deal unveiled on Tuesday gives Apple access to an IBM sales force that will recommend Apple's devices to customers in industries such as health care and banking, which have never been priorities for the consumer-focused iPhone maker. IBM gets a boost in a long-running effort to sell software and services to companies seeking to manage workers' smartphones and tablets.
"We really recognised almost simultaneously that we could be uniquely helpful to one another's strategy and that there was literally no overlap," Bridget Van Kralingen, IBM's senior vice-president of global business services, said.
The partnership helps Apple pursue a bigger slice of the market for corporate users of wireless devices. While many businesses allow the use of iPhones and iPads for checking e-mail and other tasks, some long-time users of computers running Microsoft's Windows software have remained reluctant to adopt Apple's gadgets.
For New York-based IBM, the alliance may aid the company's efforts to catch up after watching other technology companies - including Apple - seize on the growing popularity of mobile devices.
"They're now strongly associated with the premium mobile platform and mobile devices," Frank Gillett at Forrester Research said of Apple. "If you want to do anything interesting in the enterprise, you now have to check with IBM on what they're doing with Apple."
Apple, which has seen sales growth slow in recent quarters, has recognised the potential of the corporate market, touting that its devices are used by employees at 98 percent of Fortune 500 companies.
Deutsche Bank had almost 20 000 iPhones, while Siemens had 30 000, Apple said in April.
"This is a shot in the arm for IBM and a great validation of Apple in the enterprise space, where they already are a huge success," Aaron Levie, the chief executive of cloud storage company Box, said.
IBM shares rose 2 percent to $192.28 (R2 055.28) in extended trading on Tuesday after the pact was announced. The firm is scheduled to report earnings today. Apple, which reports quarterly results on July 22, climbed 1.6 percent to $96.80.
Apple and rival Samsung Electronics are seeking to further displace BlackBerry, which once held a strong grip on the corporate market. Shares of BlackBerry fell 4.2 percent to $10.83 in late trading after the deal was announced.
The partnership - announced with a press release that included a picture of Apple chief executive Tim Cook and IBM chief Ginni Rometty walking together at Apple's headquarters - would be surprising to those following the companies three decades ago.
IBM and Apple were bitter rivals during the early days of the personal computer (PC). Apple's famous "1984" Super Bowl television commercial to introduce the Macintosh computer compared IBM to George Orwell's totalitarian Big Brother. The competition eased as IBM abandoned the PC business and instead focused on software and services geared for corporate clients.
Cook worked at IBM for over a decade before joining Apple.
While the companies' agreement targets business customers, it puts IBM back in the position of selling consumer products - something it left behind in 2005 with the sale of its PC unit to China's Lenovo.
A key element of the Apple-IBM deal is developing mobile-centric software tools for businesses. While smartphones are ubiquitous, in business they are mainly used for checking e-mail or calendars.
Apple and IBM said they would build more than 100 industry-specific applications for the iPhone and iPad, as well as tools for managing functions on the devices. - Bloomberg
