Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

Among IBM users, Apple agreement gets praise, questions
Many are asking: How will it work? Will it work? How does it help IBM?
July 17, 2014 07:08 AM ET
Computerworld - The IBM-Apple partnership resonates with Roxanne Reynolds-Lair, CIO at the Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising in Los Angeles. Connecting Apple's mobile platform with IBM's back-end data is something she can use.
The fashion institute is an enterprise IBM user, but the students mostly use iOS. "Apple is by far still number one, by a long ways, with our student body," she said.
Reynolds-Lair said the agreement will "make dealing with Apple easier from an enterprise standpoint," as well as developing apps for its devices. Right now, the institute has to custom develop apps and push them out, she said.
"Apple is great at user-friendly design," said Reynolds-Lair. "IBM is great at enterprise and corporate and neither is necessarily great at the opposite, so I think it is a very complementary relationship."
But there are also questions from users and analysts, and no certainty the IBM-Apple partnership will succeed.
The hope is that Apple's collaboration with IBM will lead to mobile apps using back-end business services that are "as nicely designed and as compelling to use as your consumer apps are," said Daryl Plummer, an analyst at Gartner.
But Plummer tempers down some of the hype, such as the assumed belief that Siri, Apple's voice personal assistant, will play a role. Neither Apple nor IBM has said anything about using voice recognition capabilities in the mobile apps, said Plummer. However, "if they don't do that they just took a big swing and a miss," he added.
While the agreement cements the iPhone as an enterprise tool, "a lot people will say that IBM won't support other mobile devices - not true," said Plummer. IBM "will continue to commit to delivering back end services to Androidand Windows phones, but you know how people are, they will see this announcement as a statement of exclusive support."
Plummer isn't assuming this partnership will succeed, and puts the probability that Apple and IBM might do this right at "50-50." He'll know better once the first apps developed under the arrangement are released this fall.
Justin Porter, who heads IT consulting firm, First Technology Services and is on the board of directors of Common, an IBM Power systems user group, sees positives and possibilities in this agreement, but also has questions.
If IBM and Apple are talking about adding new cloud services that augment existing systems, "that doesn't necessarily simplify anything for me," said Porter, "It just means I have another moving part."
But, says Porter, if IBM and Apple are building a mobile platform that integrates directly with existing business system, that would be valuable. "I would assume that to some degree is the aim."
