Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

Why enterprise IT pros should fear Apple and IBM
July 17, 2014 1:10 PM EDT
If you've ever sat in front of your enterprise app and wondered why its interface is cluttered, confusing and complicated, you're not alone -- but Apple's Tim Cook has a vision to change this.
Kill the complexity
Back in the olden days (when Microsoft ran the show) the perception among the powers-that-be was that productivity software had to be complicated. Being complicated showed that workers were working, and gave visual representation of the kind of specialization that exists in every industry.
This is often expressed in something called "metalanguage." That's the concoction of industry-specific terms to describe relatively simple concepts. So, for example, retailers these days like to talk about "the customer journey," which is a way of expressing what happens between the time someone decides they need something and actually purchasing it somewhere.
The introduction and use of philosophical complexity is one way in which incredibly well-paid people justify their position. While the subtext of using such language is that they do understand their job and have an intellectual understanding of their industry, does this also require their enterprise solutions be overly complex? Not really. In many cases such complexity is only present to help the IT department justify its own position.
Keeping it simple
Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM think it is time to stop this nonsense, and deliver enterprise solutions at once simple and complex. Speaking to the Wall Street Journal, he says: "Imagine enterprise apps being as simple as the consumer apps that we've all gotten used to. That's the way it should be."
He's right. How many of us have stared at a well-known productivity application and wondered where the tool is to do something insanely simple? When it comes to enterprise apps, the situation is worse. Why is this necessary?
In what way does it make sense that enterprise software requires users waste time figuring out where the tools are to transact a simple process? This is meant to be productivity software. It's meant to save time, not squander it.
Big Data for the people
Solving this silly problem is part of what Apple and IBM intend under their recently announced deal. Big data (referred to three times by Cook in an Apple memo concerning the deal) is part of this. Making big data analysis comprehensible without sacrificing power is essential. Why? Because there aren't enough trained big data analysts to fill the needs of industry. The solution? Make it easier to analyse the data without sacrificing any insights.
That's part of what Apple and IBM will offer. They will jointly develop workplace apps that provide a comprehensible front end to the big data analytics IBM provides.
From the WSJ: "Apple and IBM said the ambition is to reimagine how people work by connecting securely the insights gleaned from big data analytics with an easy-to-use app on smartphones and tablets that consumers are familiar with."
IBM Chief Executive Virginia Rometty said Apple engineers are able "to take the complex and render it simple."
Shape up, or ship out
When they do this, Apple and IBM will set the path for the future of enterprise apps. This means the apps you use in your personal and in your professional life will be simple, uncluttered, functional and full of power.
While this will do nothing to reduce the prejudice some enterprise IT professionals have against Apple (after all, this unnecessary complexity in their solutions keeps them employed). But for people who actually use these solutions, Apple and IBM are now actively attempting to transfer Apple's legendary ease of use from the consumer straight into the enterprise markets.
This will be a sea change. Every other competitor will have no choice but to follow their lead. It will force those currently working in enterprise IT to think much more deeply about the solutions they provide. The expectation will become one in which they will be expected to deliver complexity and power within applications users can understand. And if they don't, they'll be out of a job.
That's just how it's going to be.
Google+? If you use social media and happen to be a Google+ user, why not join AppleHolic's Kool Aid Corner community and join the conversation as we pursue the spirit of the New Model Apple?
Got a story? Drop me a line via Twitter or in comments below and let me know. I'd like it if you chose to follow me on Twitter so I can let you know when fresh items are published here first on Computerworld.
Jonny Evans is an independent journalist/blogger who first got online in 1993 and began writing about Apple in 1999. He's author of Computerworld's AppleHolic blog and writes on numerous tech topics here in the US and UK. Jonny has no shares in any technology company, enjoys new and disruptive technology and likes music almost as much as he likes his large and shiny dog.
