Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

5 Steve Jobs Disses on IBM Before Apple Teamed Up With an Old Rival - Bloomberg
Apple's landmark deal with IBM today is likely to set off yet another round of "this wouldn't have happened under Steve Jobs" hand-wringing. In this situation, the case for that is pretty clear.
The rivalry with International Business Machines goes back to the beginning of Apple, and the late co-founder seemed to hold the grudge throughout his career. On the day Tim Cook announced a collaboration with IBM to create business software for the iPhone and iPad, here's a look back at five examples of Jobs taking jabs at the century-old tech company.
"Welcome, IBM. Seriously." In 1981, Steve Jobs placed a print advertisement "welcoming" IBM to the PC market. It was, of course, tongue-in-cheek and meant to highlight IBM's relatively late entry to an important industry. IBM ended up having a strong run in PCs but abandoned the business in 2005 when it sold the division to China's Lenovo.
Jobs Gives IBM the Finger. The vintage photo of a young, rebellious Jobs is beloved by Apple die-hards. It resurfaced recently when Andy Hertzfeld, who worked with Jobs on the Macintosh, posted it online.
1984. The iconic commercial, which portrayed Big Blue as the ominous Big Brother from the George Orwell novel, aired during the 1984 Super Bowl. Jobs loved the ad, created by its longtime agency Chiat\Day. Apple's board didn't, and preferred to not antagonize IBM.
Here's how Jobs introduced that ad in a 1983 speech before it was shown on TV for the only time: "It appears IBM wants it all. Apple is perceived to be the only hope to offer IBM a run for its money. Dealers, initially welcoming IBM with open arms, now fear an IBM-dominated and controlled future. They are increasingly and desperately turning back to Apple as the only force that can ensure their future freedom. IBM wants it all and is aiming its guns on its last obstacle to industry control: Apple. Will Big Blue dominate the entire computer industry? The entire information age? Was George Orwell right about 1984?''
Dark Ages. In a 1985 interview with Playboy magazine, Jobs said, "If for some reason, we make some giant mistakes and IBM wins, my personal feeling is that we are going to enter sort of a computer Dark Ages for about 20 years. Once IBM gains control of a market sector, they almost always stop innovation. They prevent innovation from happening."
The Switch to Intel. During Jobs's absence from Apple, the company switched to a type of processor made by IBM called the PowerPC. Under Jobs, Apple embarked on a multiyear effort to transition to Intel chips. "Our goal is to provide our customers with the best personal computers in the world, and looking ahead Intel has the strongest processor roadmap by far," Jobs said in a statement when he announced the switch in 2005. "It's been ten years since our transition to the PowerPC, and we think Intel's technology will help us create the best personal computers for the next ten years."
