Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

IBM-Apple Deal Feeds CIO App Ambitions
But do CIOs want Apple-only, ready-made apps? Custom, in-house apps have advantages.
CIOs desperately want to shed IT's reputation for doing only big, hairy, not-quite-right technology projects, and instead be seen as the go-to source of nimble, lightweight, just-what-you-need apps.
The new IBM-Apple deal, announced on July 15, feeds on this IT aspiration. The deal promises to deliver 100 ready-made, enterprise-class smartphone apps tuned to your industry, better enterprise support for iPhones and iPads, and easier Apple device management. It promises IBM's big data analytical depth with iPhone glitz.
In those areas it touches, the IBM-Apple pact does look like a very big deal that will help CIOs solve certain employees' mobility problems, including their growing thirst for mobile data. For example, CIOs will welcome better enterprise support of Apple products. I've heard many a CIO grumble about Apple's limited support. Whether it's procuring devices or troubleshooting problems, Apple hasn't had its heart in this kind of IT hand-holding. Apple often would point IT organizations to third-party firms. Now it has one very big third-party partner to point to: IBM.
However, the deal speaks only to those problems that fit into a tidy picture of an Apple-centric ecosystem. Mobility for CIOs is a whole lot more complicated, including Android devices, BYOD policies, Internet of Things data, and more. IBM has deep expertise and services across those areas, but the announcement refers four times to the "exclusive" nature of the IBM-Apple deal. CIOs will be looking for assurances that their complex mobile technology environments jibe with the IBM-Apple vision.
[Who loses from this deal? Read Apple-IBM Deal: Trouble For Google, Microsoft.]
IBM's plan to deliver 100 iOS apps this year and next also will appeal to CIOs looking to deliver on this fast-and-efficient vision for IT. But it raises one of the biggest questions I have about mobile strategies: Do CIOs see competitive advantage in such ready-made, single-platform apps, or will they instead do more custom mobile app development? IBM is promising that these apps will solve industry-specific business problems, based on its consulting work in these industries. But custom mobile apps should in theory be easier for IT teams to create in-house (or by tapping a few outside developers) than on-premises, custom-coded client-server apps. The new app mentality -- delivering only and exactly what the business needs, quickly -- could spark a new wave of in-house development, at least for large businesses, and particularly for customer-facing apps.
IBM faces plenty of competition in this purpose-built app market. The company has stayed out of the core enterprise application market, letting the likes of SAP and Oracle build the ERP, CRM, and supply chain systems while IBM gets paid to implement them. Now the action has moved to the edge, and the battle is over whose products will deliver the data generated by those core applications to the employee or customer touchscreen, and whose products will analyze that data. With the Apple deal, IBM gets an impressive new partner to go after that app market, but it still faces the big enterprise software vendors, which want to sell mobile add-ons to their enterprise applications.
For Apple, the IBM deal is a smart move, a clear move by CEO Tim Cook to put Apple in a more business-friendly mode. Much of the first-day analysis contrasted the deal with Steve Jobs's disinterest in enterprise IT. However, Cook's hardly committing heresy. Jobs's attitude toward the enterprise was something like: "You're welcome to buy our products once you realize they're superior." What he wasn't going to do was make accommodations to meet the picayune needs of the enterprise IT buyer, whom he once referred to as "confused" about what people really want from their technology.
The Apple-IBM deal isn't a huge departure from the idea that Apple will build products for people, not for businesses. iOS 8 does include new business-friendly security and management improvements, and those are important. Overall, this deal shows Apple acknowledging that CIOs buying iPhones and iPads have some legit, unmet needs, but it's leaving the heaviest lifting to meet those needs to IBM. That's the right focus for both companies.
InformationWeek's new Must Reads is a compendium of our best recent coverage of the Internet of Things. Find out the way in which an aging workforce will drive progress on the Internet of Things, why the IoT isn't as scary as some folks seem to think, how connected machines will change the supply chain, and more. (Free registration required.)
Chris Murphy is editor of InformationWeek and leader of its Strategic CIO community. He has been covering technology leadership and strategy issues for InformationWeek since 1999. Before that, he was editor of the Budapest Business Journal, a business newspaper in Hungary; 
