Opinion
Apple and IBM: A winning combo for IT
The breadth and depth of IBMs enterprise knowledge will be a boon to Apple
July 17, 2014 06:02 AM ET
Computerworld - It will be some time before the dust settles after the unexpected partnership announced on Tuesday between Apple and IBM, but one thing is clear: This will change the dynamic of the enterprise mobility market in significant ways. In many respects, the joint press release the two companies issued doesn't convey the potential scale of this partnership.
The most common reaction was that the deal gives Apple instant credibility as an enterprise device builder. That advantage sunk in very quickly. The fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty acknowledged that this has been in the works for two years shows that Apple has been seriously thinking about how to work better with enterprise IT and the various lines of business that exist in major companies.
It clearly underscores Apple's efforts over the past year or two to show that it takes the enterprise market very seriously. More importantly, by partnering with IBM, Apple will learn how to make iOS a more effective option in the enterprise -- a decided plus for customers even if they don't opt for an IBM-packaged solution for iOS deployments. (Here's a timeline of how iOS has evolved.)
Grasping the scale of what IBM can offer
What's missing in the first-blush reaction to the deal is an appreciation of the scope of institutional knowledge and resources about the enterprise that IBM brings to the table.
When many people think of IBM, they think of a company building servers, network storage and semiconductors or delivering big enterprise software and cloud services. Those are, of course, part of IBM and they represent much of the value it brings to this partnership. It also has robust business and technology services divisions that are massive in terms of the number of employees, streamlined processes and understanding of virtually any industry.
Many years ago, as an IT professional, I got to witness IBM's IT services division outsource help desk operations of a major media company. In very short order, IBM managed to learn all the business processes, organizational structure, the current technology policies and workflows, existing infrastructure, and common help desk issues throughout this company. Every step of the process seemed to be scripted with detailed specificity and any question or concern was answered quickly if not immediately. The efficiency and the understanding of enterprise needs was jaw-dropping and it arose from the fact that IBM had gone through this process hundreds (maybe even thousands) of times before.
Go through that process enough times and you learn very clearly what you need to do, how much hand-holding your enterprise customers need, the issues specific to the industries in which you operate, what information you need from customers, what details they need from you, how to structure a contract and the guarantees it provides, what resources you need to provide and how to manage the relationship between IT teams along the way. When things go wrong, you investigate, learn from it and build that knowledge into the process for future projects.
In short, you become an expert in the business and IT needs of large segments of every industry and you learn to tailor your offerings and experience to each customer.
Consider how that expertise in customer support will translate into a joint enterprise support initiative with Apple. If you manage the help desks not just for your own enterprise solutions but also that of major companies in a wide swath of industries, you have an immense level of knowledge and experience to draw on in terms of how to deliver support, anticipate needs and how to set and manage expectations using contractual terms like service level agreements or SLAs - the life blood of many IT service agreements.
Then consider that IBM isn't just bringing that level of expertise from its IT outsourcing and support businesses, but of every enterprise solutions and services division in the company -- app development, back-end infrastructure, big data and analytics, logistics, cloud solutions, network and device security, business process transformation, project management, CRM, mass deployment, user management and training. The result is an enterprise partner with expertise greater than most enterprise IT vendors out there.

IBM to sell business-optimized iPads in unexpected partnership | PCWorld
Apple and IBM announced Tuesday that they'll be working together to support iPhones and iPads specifically designed for businesses. The mobile devices will come with a suite of more than 100 industry-specific apps, giving Apple a much stronger path into the lucrative enterprise space that's traditionally been the province of Windows PCs.
The phones and tablets will be part of a new joint initiative called IBM MobileFirst for iOS. The deal hearkens back to the days of the IBM-designed PowerPC processor, which was used in early Macintosh computers.
Both Apple and IBM will provide the apps along with services that tap into IBM's cloud capability, including device management, security, analytics, and mobile integration. The apps will target retail, healthcare, banking, travel and transportation, telecommunications, and insurance, the companies said. There will also be new packaged offerings from IBM for device activation and management, IBM said.
IBM will sell iPhones and iPads with the industry-specific solutions to business clients worldwide. Apple will add a new tier of AppleCare service and support geared for the enterprise, apparently adding on to the "Alliance" support tier already in place.
"Mobility--combined with the phenomena of data and cloud--is transforming business and our industry in historic ways, allowing people to re-imagine work, industries and professions," said Ginni Rometty, IBM's chairman, president and CEO, in a statement.
"This alliance with Apple will build on our momentum in bringing these innovations to our clients globally, and leverages IBM's leadership in analytics, cloud, software and services. We are delighted to be teaming with Apple, whose innovations have transformed our lives in ways we take for granted, but can't imagine living without," Rometty said. "Our alliance will bring the same kind of transformation to the way people work, industries operate and companies perform."
IBM and Apple didn't divulge details about which company would sell the new iOS devices, what they would be priced at, or what apps the devices would be preloaded with. It's likely, though, that the new devices won't see retail shelves, and will be rolled out on a company-by-company basis.
IBM said nothing about whether broad artificial intelligence technologies like IBM's "Watson" would be included.
It's worth noting that IBM is the company Apple originally took aim at with its famous "1984" commercial, urging consumers to break free from IBM's drab, beige boxes and enterprise focus. With the new partnership, Apple is acknowledging business customers can have the best of both companies.
