IBM and Apple, better chance this time? - Therese Poletti's Tech Tales - MarketWatch
By Therese Poletti, MarketWatch
IBM
IBM CEO Ginni Rometty and her counterpart at Apple, Tim Cook
SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- A deal this week forged by former foes IBM Corp. and Apple Inc. in mobile devices has many recalling the dark Orwellian future predicted in the famous 1984 Chiat/Day TV commercial that launched the Macintosh, branded as the personal computer that set you apart from the lemmings following IBM.
But forgotten by many is the fact that these two former foes have worked together before, joined in a fight against the duopoly of Microsoft Corp. MSFT +0.32% and Intel Corp., INTC +1.07% and their dominance of the PC industry. Now they have set their sights on a mutually beneficial relationship in the mobile business, where both companies need help.
In 1991, a far more earth-shattering alliance was formed when IBM IBM -0.86% and Apple AAPL -0.52% announced a joint venture, and one of its missions was to create a new chip to power personal computers, an alternative to the Win-Tel dominance. Then-independent Motorola Inc. was part of the chip venture.
In addition, IBM and Apple formed two software ventures, Taligent, which was originally working on an object-oriented operating system, and Kaleida, which hoped to bring more multimedia features to the PC. While the software ventures ultimately failed, and the PowerPC chips never gained massive share against Intel, the PowerPC was the heart of the Macintosh until Apple switched to Intel in 2006, as well as the core processor for many IBM UNIX-based workstations and servers.
Still, their previous dealings were far from perfect. The ventures were beset by cultural clashes of companies that had been fierce rivals in the personal-computer business since the 1980s and their different agendas. Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook told the Wall Street Journal in an interview on Tuesday that "In '84, we were competitors. In 2014, I don't think you can find two more complementary companies," he said. It is also worth noting that before joining Apple, Cook spent several years at Compaq, and before that, 12 years at IBM.
Today, they appear to be joined by a mutual need to grow their respective businesses: Apple needs to shore up slowing iPhone sales and IBM needs to stave off an overall revenue decline. And while Apple often touts many of its corporate wins on its quarterly conference calls, the issue of tech support for its mobile devices, the iPhone and the iPad, has always been an issue in the "bring your own device" to work environment. The deal will include IBM developing over 100 mobile apps for iOS for specific industries, and Apple will offer a new level of service just for corporate customers.
Charles King, an analyst with Pund-IT Inc., summed up Apple's issues with corporate IT nicely.
"Face it: The last thing IT wants to do when the boss' iPhone craps out is to send a team member down to the Genius Bar," King wrote in an email newsletter, referring to the Apple retail store.
Some on Wall Street were hopeful that the deal would result in improved business for each company. RBC Capital Markets analyst Amit Daryanani wrote in a note that the partnership has "potential galore." However, Gene Munster, an analyst with Piper Jaffray, noted that he believes the consumer remains the most important revenue source for Apple and its business model.
"We note that if half of the Fortune 500 were to each purchase an incremental 2,000 iPhones and 1,000 iPads above what they were planning to purchase as a result of the IBM deal, it would mean about a half a percent to [calendar year] 2015 revenue," Munster wrote in a note Tuesday.
Joined in mutual need, the former foes have found another way to work together. Whether the partnership will be more successful than their earlier ventures, it's too early to tell.
