Democrats: Hobby Lobby ruling could boost 2014 hopes - James Hohmann - POLITICO.com
Democrats may be decrying the Supreme Court's Hobby Lobby ruling, but the party's campaign strategists believe they can use it to their benefit in this year's midterm elections.
Despite the legal setback for Obamacare, the strategists hope the ruling will boost Democrats' efforts to keep the Senate by persuading some Republican-leaning women to defect in states with competitive races while galvanizing younger women who typically don't vote in midterms. They argue the 5-4 decision dovetails well with claims that the GOP is waging a "war on women," a charge they have used effectively in recent elections.
Continue Reading
Monday's decision "is a disappointment for Democrats, but it does put a big welcome spotlight on Republicans' support for 'personhood' [initiatives] and other measures that would go much further than today's decision to outlaw common forms of birth control," said Matt Canter, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee deputy executive director.
(Also on POLITICO: Hobby Lobby ruling full text)
Republicans, however, are framing the ruling as a victory for religious freedom, and -- more germane to their 2014 strategy -- another blow to the president and his signature health law. They argue that Democrats can't count on voters making contraception a priority come November at a time when jobs, the economy and problems with the health law loom large.
"Individual news cycles in general don't shape the election," a senior GOP strategist said. "If anything, it's another dent and crack in Obamacare's armor. If the discussion is about Obamacare, it helps Republicans more than Democrats. If it's about birth control, then it doesn't."
The ruling allows for-profit employers with religious objections to opt out of the health law's contraception coverage mandate. It is relatively narrow and deals with just one small part of the health law, but it is Obamacare opponents' most important legal victory yet in their efforts to unravel the law.
Democrats said the decision could help their Senate incumbents on the margins in Colorado, North Carolina and Montana. It may also help male Democrats running in Michigan and Iowa, purple states with open Senate races where Republicans nominated women.
(Also on POLITICO: W.H. slams SCOTUS ruling)
"The voters in those states that will decide the election are Republican-leaning, moderate women in suburban areas," a Senate Democratic strategist said. "Access to contraception is a driver of the vote there and extremely persuasive to those voters."
Democrats and allies, in a bid to raise turnout among women, have already been running ads highlighting past support by GOP candidates for so-called personhood legislation, which codifies the idea that life starts at conception. These laws would have far-reaching consequences -- putting the legality of in vitro fertilization in question, for instance -- which is why even states such as Mississippi have rejected such ballot initiatives.
Colorado could prove the clearest test this year of whether the Democrats' efforts to highlight personhood and contraception will work as well as their "war on women" strategy did in 2012.
Earlier this month, Democratic Sen. Mark Udall went on the air with two ads -- one suggesting that his Republican challenger, Cory Gardner, would take away contraception and the second talking up a woman's right to choose more generally.
In a sign of how potent the issue could be in the Rocky Mountain State, Gardner immediately responded with a Web video, later used as a TV ad, renouncing his past support for "personhood" initiatives, which were twice rejected in statewide referendums. He also followed up with an op-ed in The Denver Post calling for birth control to be available over the counter.
On Monday, Udall's campaign used the court ruling to attack Gardner for legislation he co-sponsored as a congressman in 2011 and 2013, which it said would have allowed employers to remove medications or procedures from employee health plans if they conflicted with personal beliefs.
"Today the Supreme Court followed Congressman Cory Gardner's lead in putting a woman's boss in charge of her family planning decisions," said the Udall campaign's Kim Howard.
(Also on POLITICO: SCOTUS ignites contraception, Obamacare fight)
Gardner praised the court for protecting "religious liberty and the First Amendment," but he also went on to argue: "The Food and Drug Administration now needs to move quickly to make oral contraceptives available to adults without a prescription. This easy step will make oral contraceptives both accessible and affordable for every woman who wants them. It's common sense, and it's the right thing to do."
The court ruling also could reverberate in other states with competitive Senate contests, such as North Carolina and Michigan, where the Democrat-allied Senate Majority PAC has been running ads on personhood and related issues.
"If you're trying so desperately to run away from your record on personhood, this thrusts it back into the spotlight," said Senate Majority PAC's campaign director, Ty Matsdorf. "It makes it real. People now realize that this is not just some kind of hypothetical campaign threat."
The National Republican Senatorial Committee's Brad Dayspring countered that if highlighting the case is a winner, then President Barack Obama would not have delivered a previously unannounced Rose Garden speech on Monday afternoon devoted entirely to executive action on immigration.
"Democrats are flailing, trying desperately to motivate their base and the 2012 Obama coalition but coming up short," Dayspring said. "The Democratic political committees that spent the morning arguing that the Supreme Court's decision was a political winner were muted by President Obama's latest threats of imperial action during a speech that tried to divert attention from the latest Obamacare failure."
In North Carolina, where he is trying to oust Democratic Sen. Kay Hagan, Republican Senate nominee Thom Tillis tweeted: "Today's SCOTUS rulings were a win for our 1st Amendment freedoms, a loss for Hagan, Obama, & DC bureaucrats."
Hagan's campaign responded that "the contrast on women's health in North Carolina could not be clearer today."
"Kay has a record of standing up to protect women's access to basic preventive care, while Thom Tillis sees no problem with letting employers make personal health decisions for women," spokeswoman Sadie Weiner said.
In Michigan, Democrats have previously attacked Republican candidate Terri Lynn Land for her strong opposition to abortion. She responded with an ad aimed at mocking the war on women, in which she stared into the camera quietly while sipping her coffee. The commercial has been widely ridiculed, including by GOP pollster Frank Luntz in a recent Fox News segment. Land, who polls show is trailing among women, is running against Democratic Rep. Gary Peters.
