7 Stunning Images From What May Be Muslim World's Largest LGBT Celebration
Amid a sea of rainbow flags, tens of thousands of gay rights supporters and LGBT community members came together to promote equality at Istanbul's gay pride parade Sunday.
The Turkish street festival in the predominately Muslim country has been touted as the largest LGBT celebration in the Muslim world.
Masked women face each other during a gay pride parade on Istiklal Street, Istanbul's main shopping corridor, on June 29.
"In Turkey, we all have difficulty exercising our rights," parade participant Aykut Yanak told the Agence France-Presse. "This is why we must fight and why we all walk together today."
Though same-sex relationships are not illegal in Turkey, intolerance runs rampant in the nation, often due to traditional Islamic values. (In Turkey, 99 percent of the population is Muslim.)
According to a 2011 World Values Survey, 84 percent of Turkish respondents stated they did not want to live near members of the LGBT community. What's more, LGBT hate crimes in Turkey are reportedly the highest of any nation in the Council of Europe, the Daily Beast reported, citing advocacy groups.
In recent years, some of the nation's top officials have given controversial remarks against homosexuality.
Last year, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan was quoted by Turkish news outlet Hurriyet as saying that being gay is a "sexual preference" that goes against the culture of Islam. In 2010, Turkey's Minister for Women and Family Affairs, Selma Aliye Kavaf, said "homosexuality is a biological disorder, a disease".
Earlier this year, the Turkish government announced plans to segregate LGBT criminals from other prisoners by housing them in a separate jail. Gay rights activist Murat Koylu told the AFP the move was "a medieval-age practice" and that "the government has once again chosen to ostracize homosexuals."
Here are six other photos from Istanbul's pride celebration:
An aerial view of Turkey's gay pride parade where tens of thousands of people marched on Sunday.
People march holding a giant rainbow flag in Istanbul's main shopping corridor.
Two men kiss during the parade on Istiklal Street.
People march down Istanbul's bustling Istiklal Street.
People kiss under a giant rainbow flag during a gay pride parade on Istiklal Street, Istanbul's main shopping corridor.
A man waves a gay pride flag amid a crowd of gay-rights supporters.

Pride parade marches down Fifth Ave. 45 years after Stonewall riots, as Gov. Cuomo pledges to end AIDS in N.Y. - NY Daily News
Forty-five years after the Stonewall Inn riots ignited a national fight for gay rights, a rainbow regalia flooded Fifth Ave. on Sunday to honor the milestone and proudly show how far the movement has come.
The colorful pageantry ran from midtown Manhattan to just past The Stonewall Inn in the West Village. In 1969, violent fights between raiding cops and the customers of the bar became a catalyst for the gay rights movement.
Robin Platzer/Twin Images/Zuma Press Chiara de Blasio wears a sequin bikini top in the parade, with Mayor de Blasio and First Lady Chirlane McCray behind her.
Mayor de Blasio, who wore a rainbow tie, purple shirt and sneakers, gleefully stopped along the 32-block route to high-five revelers.
He was joined by his wife, Chirlane McCray, who had come out as a lesbian in the 1970s before meeting de Blasio, and their daughter, Chiara, who wore a revealing sequin black bikini top. His son, Dante, did not attend.
Before the march, Gov. Cuomo announced an ambitious plan to become the first state in the nation to end the three-decade HIV crisis by 2020.
State officials plan to more aggressively test and treat HIV-positive patients to reduce the numbers of those who eventually contract and die of AIDS.
"We can do it," Cuomo told reporters Sunday. "We've done a lot of work, we've made a lot of progress, but we're not going to be happy until we end the epidemic, and we believe we can, and that should be the goal."
Laverne Cox, from the Netflix series "Orange is the New Black," and actor Jonathan Groff, from HBO's "Looking," led off the march as the grand marshals of the 45th annual celebration.
The parade also marked the third anniversary since same-sex marriage was legalized in New York.
"I'm here representing that lifestyle, to help people understand we're just like them," said Yvonne Valles, 42, from Bayonne, N.J.
Corinne Reilly-Ferretto, 19, added, "We're showing up to support because you should be able to live how you want to live."
