7 Stunning Images From What May Be Muslim World's Largest LGBT Celebration
Amid a sea of rainbow flags, tens of thousands of gay rights supporters and LGBT community members came together to promote equality at Istanbul's gay pride parade Sunday.
The Turkish street festival in the predominately Muslim country has been touted as the largest LGBT celebration in the Muslim world.
Masked women face each other during a gay pride parade on Istiklal Street, Istanbul's main shopping corridor, on June 29.
"In Turkey, we all have difficulty exercising our rights," parade participant Aykut Yanak told the Agence France-Presse. "This is why we must fight and why we all walk together today."
Though same-sex relationships are not illegal in Turkey, intolerance runs rampant in the nation, often due to traditional Islamic values. (In Turkey, 99 percent of the population is Muslim.)
According to a 2011 World Values Survey, 84 percent of Turkish respondents stated they did not want to live near members of the LGBT community. What's more, LGBT hate crimes in Turkey are reportedly the highest of any nation in the Council of Europe, the Daily Beast reported, citing advocacy groups.
In recent years, some of the nation's top officials have given controversial remarks against homosexuality.
Last year, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan was quoted by Turkish news outlet Hurriyet as saying that being gay is a "sexual preference" that goes against the culture of Islam. In 2010, Turkey's Minister for Women and Family Affairs, Selma Aliye Kavaf, said "homosexuality is a biological disorder, a disease".
Earlier this year, the Turkish government announced plans to segregate LGBT criminals from other prisoners by housing them in a separate jail. Gay rights activist Murat Koylu told the AFP the move was "a medieval-age practice" and that "the government has once again chosen to ostracize homosexuals."
Here are six other photos from Istanbul's pride celebration:
An aerial view of Turkey's gay pride parade where tens of thousands of people marched on Sunday.
People march holding a giant rainbow flag in Istanbul's main shopping corridor.
Two men kiss during the parade on Istiklal Street.
People march down Istanbul's bustling Istiklal Street.
People kiss under a giant rainbow flag during a gay pride parade on Istiklal Street, Istanbul's main shopping corridor.
A man waves a gay pride flag amid a crowd of gay-rights supporters.

With Rainbow Neckerchiefs, Celebrating Pride and Progress at Parade
Boy Scouts Make Provocative Statement at Gay Pride Parade

Boy Scouts in full uniform at the Gay Pride March on Sunday in Manhattan. "We're showing that we belong," one scout said. Credit James Estrin/The New York Times
The color guard leading the annual Gay Pride March down Fifth Avenue in Manhattan on Sunday carried flags of sky blue, navy blue, red-white-and-blue and rainbow. But, for these marchers, the colors that mattered most were the ones they wore.
Khaki shirts, olive pants and rainbow neckerchiefs: the Boy Scout uniform, pride-style -- a uniform that had never been seen on a group of marchers in New York City's pride parade before.
They had come to mark progress -- the Boy Scouts of America's breakthrough vote last year to end a decades-old policy of prohibiting openly gay youths from being scouts -- and to call for more. However, the organization, a touchstone of traditional America, still bars openly gay adults from participating as troop leaders or volunteers. Ending that ban has become a signature cause for the gay-rights movement.
"I want gay parents to have the opportunity to scout with their children," said Greg Bourke, 56, who said he was forced to step down as a leader of his son's troop in Kentucky two years ago after local Scouts officials learned he was gay and threatened to revoke the troop's charter. "Adult leaders should have the same opportunities as everyone else has to take part in an organization that's a bedrock of America."
A Boy Scout wearing a rainbow neckerchief at the Gay Pride March. Credit James Estrin/The New York Times
As parade outfits go, the scouts' attire was among the tamest. Just ahead of them, one man's head bore a live parrot; another's back had sprouted enormous white wings. A third wore little more than a pair of red briefs spangled with gold medallions, and roller skates.
David Knapp, on the other hand, sported olive-green tube socks, black sneakers and a neckerchief from the National Scout Jamboree of 1993, the year Scouts officials in Connecticut knocked on his door and expelled him from scouting after decades as a scout, professional staff member and volunteer.
The black-and-white sign Mr. Knapp, 87, carried said it all: "Boy Scout leader kicked out for being gay."
Yet his and the other marchers' uniforms were a provocative statement. Boy Scout officials have said that scouts are forbidden to wear their uniforms in events that support social or political positions, including gay pride events, and have disciplined scouts and scoutmasters in other states for doing so. But the New York area council has adopted a nondiscrimination policy that leaders of the parade group, called Scouts for Equality, said they believed would protect them.
A spokesman for the national organization declined to comment on the group of marchers, which included parents and straight supporters of the gay rights movement as well as gay and straight scouts and leaders. (In addition, a contingent of tiny Daisy Scouts and Cub Scouts trotted around, waving marriage equality flags).
Mr. Knapp has spent the years since his ouster agitating for gay rights in scouting, and has marched in the parade for years with Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays, or Pflag, a national group, carrying a version of the same sign and wearing his uniform. "I was in total shock, because everything I've ever done in scouting has been good," Mr. Knapp said of the day he was expelled.
Photo
David Knapp, 87, who was expelled from the Boy Scouts after decades with the organization, carrying a sign at the parade on Sunday. Credit James Estrin/The New York Times
Recalling how he first fell in love with scouting as a 12-year-old in 1938, he added: "I wasn't an athlete, but I loved the outdoors and camping and all that. I was more of the introverted, studious intellectual -- I didn't have many friends. So it was wonderful to have friends."
As he spoke, his boyfriend of 14 years, Stan Wright, 82, fussed over him, handing him water, a juice box and a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. "I'm very proud," Mr. Knapp said, smiling between bites. "Very excited."
Nearby, Pascal Tessier, 17, of Kensington, Md., who is believed to be the first openly gay Eagle Scout, patiently awaited the start of the festivities.
"I woke up that morning very nervous, thinking, 'This could be the last day I can call myself a scout,' " he said, referring to the day of last year's vote to allow gay youths. "Looking back, I know scouting shaped my childhood. It made me who I am today. It taught me how to lead, taught me how to be respectful and responsible."
The scouts did not take their "marching" lightly. No meandering on the asphalt for them, no dancing and high-fiving the spectators. As they stepped off to frenzied cheers from the crowd, lifting their flags, Peter Brownstein conducted their progress in low, determined tones, as if he were directing a military procession: "Left, right, left right left right."
As the group passed the Stonewall Inn, the West Village bar known as a landmark in the gay-rights movement, he and the other marchers paused and gave the Scout salute.
Mr. Brownstein, a Boy Scout leader from Utah, was forced to leave his troop after marching in the Salt Lake City pride event last year. That did not deter him in the least from coming to New York's celebration.
"We're showing," he told his fellow scouts, "that we belong."
Correction: July 1, 2014 	An article on Monday about the annual Gay Pride March down Fifth Avenue in Manhattan overstated the significance of an uprising in 1969 at the Stonewall Inn, a gay bar in Greenwich Village. The incident, in which lesbians and gays fought back against a police raid, is widely seen as a major turning point in the fight for gay rights. But the Stonewall Inn is not the site where the gay-rights movement was born. (National gay-rights organizations had existed for decades before Stonewall.)
