7 Stunning Images From What May Be Muslim World's Largest LGBT Celebration
Amid a sea of rainbow flags, tens of thousands of gay rights supporters and LGBT community members came together to promote equality at Istanbul's gay pride parade Sunday.
The Turkish street festival in the predominately Muslim country has been touted as the largest LGBT celebration in the Muslim world.
Masked women face each other during a gay pride parade on Istiklal Street, Istanbul's main shopping corridor, on June 29.
"In Turkey, we all have difficulty exercising our rights," parade participant Aykut Yanak told the Agence France-Presse. "This is why we must fight and why we all walk together today."
Though same-sex relationships are not illegal in Turkey, intolerance runs rampant in the nation, often due to traditional Islamic values. (In Turkey, 99 percent of the population is Muslim.)
According to a 2011 World Values Survey, 84 percent of Turkish respondents stated they did not want to live near members of the LGBT community. What's more, LGBT hate crimes in Turkey are reportedly the highest of any nation in the Council of Europe, the Daily Beast reported, citing advocacy groups.
In recent years, some of the nation's top officials have given controversial remarks against homosexuality.
Last year, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan was quoted by Turkish news outlet Hurriyet as saying that being gay is a "sexual preference" that goes against the culture of Islam. In 2010, Turkey's Minister for Women and Family Affairs, Selma Aliye Kavaf, said "homosexuality is a biological disorder, a disease".
Earlier this year, the Turkish government announced plans to segregate LGBT criminals from other prisoners by housing them in a separate jail. Gay rights activist Murat Koylu told the AFP the move was "a medieval-age practice" and that "the government has once again chosen to ostracize homosexuals."
Here are six other photos from Istanbul's pride celebration:
An aerial view of Turkey's gay pride parade where tens of thousands of people marched on Sunday.
People march holding a giant rainbow flag in Istanbul's main shopping corridor.
Two men kiss during the parade on Istiklal Street.
People march down Istanbul's bustling Istiklal Street.
People kiss under a giant rainbow flag during a gay pride parade on Istiklal Street, Istanbul's main shopping corridor.
A man waves a gay pride flag amid a crowd of gay-rights supporters.

Toronto pride parade 2014 photos show streets packed with 12,000 marchers and thousands of spectators | National Post
More than 12,000 people, including Canadian politicians, actors and Olympic athletes, turned out to march in Toronto's largest ever pride parade Sunday.
The parade capped off 10 days of festivities celebrating gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender communities. Toronto played host to WorldPride this year, marking the first time a WorldPride festival taken place in a North American city.
"The energy is always up during this event but it's just on steroids this weekend," said Steve Nardi, 51, who marched in the parade. "It's been fantastic, absolutely fantastic."
Visitors from as far away as the Netherlands, Uganda and Texas came to celebrate the event in Toronto.
"We are free here. We're able to express ourselves in a better and a more accepting environment -- something we cannot do back home," said Mojalifa Mokoele, 29, who flew in from Zimbabwe just for World Pride. "It's homely. It feels like the whole world is here."
Liberal Party of Canada leader Justin Trudeau marched in the parade with a group of Liberal supporters and Ontario's newly elected and first openly gay premier, Kathleen Wynne.
"I've seen so many people from every corner of the world, literally," Mr. Trudeau said, adding that he'd spoken with people from Australia, South Africa and Jamaica earlier in the day. "[Canada] is a place that actually gets it, that stands up for human rights around the world and welcomes people in."
At the parade some marchers dressed in elaborate costumes and headdresses with feathers, while others wore no clothes at all. One group of men dressed up as fruit.
Some bystanders wore rainbow tutus and heavy makeup, dancing while they watched floats go by, and others wore WorldPride t-shirts and held hands with their young children, dressed in matching outfits.
With temperatures reaching 29 C and feeling like high 30s Sunday, some bystanders collapsed in the heat and were treated by paramedics. Others welcomed sprays of water from parade participants armed with water guns.
Liberal Adam Vaughan, preparing for a showdown against NDP candidate Joe Cressy in the Trinity-Spadina federal byelection Monday, had his own water gun at the ready.
"Half my riding is in the parade, the other half is watching," he said. "Hanging out here is never a bad idea as an election strategy. But I'm actually here because this is about celebrating peoples' right to love."
Parade organizers said they expect this year's parade had the largest attendance ever in Toronto. They had predicted 1.2 million people would attend pride festivities this year.
"There was no place to walk... and this is the longest parade route we've ever had. It was packed [with bystanders] the entire way," said Sean Hillier, co-chair of Pride Toronto. People were lining up the watch the parade hours before it started, he said.
Some parade marchers complained that the wait time to join the parade was longer than normal, but remained positive and hid from the sun underneath their banners and signs.
Notable attendees at Sunday's parade included Ugandan LGBT activist Frank Mughisha, the Canadian Olympic team, Canadian comedian Colin Mochrie and television personality Rick Mercer.
The next WorldPride parade, celebrated every few years, will be held in 2017 in Madrid, Spain. This year marked Toronto's 34th year celebrating the pride festival.
