7 Stunning Images From What May Be Muslim World's Largest LGBT Celebration
Amid a sea of rainbow flags, tens of thousands of gay rights supporters and LGBT community members came together to promote equality at Istanbul's gay pride parade Sunday.
The Turkish street festival in the predominately Muslim country has been touted as the largest LGBT celebration in the Muslim world.
Masked women face each other during a gay pride parade on Istiklal Street, Istanbul's main shopping corridor, on June 29.
"In Turkey, we all have difficulty exercising our rights," parade participant Aykut Yanak told the Agence France-Presse. "This is why we must fight and why we all walk together today."
Though same-sex relationships are not illegal in Turkey, intolerance runs rampant in the nation, often due to traditional Islamic values. (In Turkey, 99 percent of the population is Muslim.)
According to a 2011 World Values Survey, 84 percent of Turkish respondents stated they did not want to live near members of the LGBT community. What's more, LGBT hate crimes in Turkey are reportedly the highest of any nation in the Council of Europe, the Daily Beast reported, citing advocacy groups.
In recent years, some of the nation's top officials have given controversial remarks against homosexuality.
Last year, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan was quoted by Turkish news outlet Hurriyet as saying that being gay is a "sexual preference" that goes against the culture of Islam. In 2010, Turkey's Minister for Women and Family Affairs, Selma Aliye Kavaf, said "homosexuality is a biological disorder, a disease".
Earlier this year, the Turkish government announced plans to segregate LGBT criminals from other prisoners by housing them in a separate jail. Gay rights activist Murat Koylu told the AFP the move was "a medieval-age practice" and that "the government has once again chosen to ostracize homosexuals."
Here are six other photos from Istanbul's pride celebration:
An aerial view of Turkey's gay pride parade where tens of thousands of people marched on Sunday.
People march holding a giant rainbow flag in Istanbul's main shopping corridor.
Two men kiss during the parade on Istiklal Street.
People march down Istanbul's bustling Istiklal Street.
People kiss under a giant rainbow flag during a gay pride parade on Istiklal Street, Istanbul's main shopping corridor.
A man waves a gay pride flag amid a crowd of gay-rights supporters.

Apple, Facebook, Google cheer on Gay Pride parade - The Times of India
SAN FRANCISCO: Apple, Facebook and other prominent Silicon Valley technology companies flew the flag for gay rights at the San Francisco Pride Festival on Sunday as they sought to boost morale among employees and reflect a corporate culture of diversity.
Thousands of Apple employees donned specially designed T shirts at the festival and marched in unison. This year's turnout was largest in the company's history, several Apple employees told Reuters.
The San Francisco event was one of many Gay Pride parades held across the United States on Sunday.
Apple chief executive Tim Cook made a surprise appearance at the San Francisco event to greet employees and their families early in the morning, but did not march in the parade himself.
Congrats to 5000 Apple employees/families who attended today's Pride parade.Inclusion inspires innovation.#applepride pic.twitter.com/4DncX8F6fO
-- Tim Cook (@tim_cook) June 29, 2014
Apple has a long history of supporting the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community. The company recently came out against an Arizona bill that would permit businesses to refuse service on religious grounds, a measure that critics said could allow discrimination against gay people.
In an unusual step for the sometimes secretive Apple, the company has spoken out about its support for the Pride festival.
PRIDE!!! Thanks @tim_cook! pic.twitter.com/HT07aOBG4A
-- Mark Bober (@markbober) June 29, 2014
To help attendees navigate the packed event, the company set up a dedicated LGBT station on iTunes Radio and featured several apps on its App Store, including the Find My Friends app. Company employees also handed out iTunes gift cards to bystanders.
"Apple believes equality and diversity make us stronger, and we're proud to support our employees and their friends and families in this weekend's celebration," Apple spokeswoman Michaela Wilkinson said.
Fellow tech firms Google and Facebook also spent several days planning their festival debuts. Hundreds of employees showed up at this year's parade.
"It's a dog whistle to their consumer base that these tech firms are cool, with it, and progressive," said Fred Sainz, vice president of communications and marketing at the Human Rights Campaign. The HRC awarded Apple a perfect score on its corporate equality index, which rates American workplaces on LGBT equality.
Ellen Leanse, a former Google and Apple senior employee, said the Pride festival is a "high-visibility place" for these tech firms to compete for talent.
"Tech companies need to be at Pride simply to be in the game," she said.
The increasing visibility of tech firms at the parade comes as US courts debate same-sex marriage bans. Recently, a Denver federal appeals court ruled that gay couples in Utah have a constitutional right to marry.
