7 Stunning Images From What May Be Muslim World's Largest LGBT Celebration
Amid a sea of rainbow flags, tens of thousands of gay rights supporters and LGBT community members came together to promote equality at Istanbul's gay pride parade Sunday.
The Turkish street festival in the predominately Muslim country has been touted as the largest LGBT celebration in the Muslim world.
Masked women face each other during a gay pride parade on Istiklal Street, Istanbul's main shopping corridor, on June 29.
"In Turkey, we all have difficulty exercising our rights," parade participant Aykut Yanak told the Agence France-Presse. "This is why we must fight and why we all walk together today."
Though same-sex relationships are not illegal in Turkey, intolerance runs rampant in the nation, often due to traditional Islamic values. (In Turkey, 99 percent of the population is Muslim.)
According to a 2011 World Values Survey, 84 percent of Turkish respondents stated they did not want to live near members of the LGBT community. What's more, LGBT hate crimes in Turkey are reportedly the highest of any nation in the Council of Europe, the Daily Beast reported, citing advocacy groups.
In recent years, some of the nation's top officials have given controversial remarks against homosexuality.
Last year, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan was quoted by Turkish news outlet Hurriyet as saying that being gay is a "sexual preference" that goes against the culture of Islam. In 2010, Turkey's Minister for Women and Family Affairs, Selma Aliye Kavaf, said "homosexuality is a biological disorder, a disease".
Earlier this year, the Turkish government announced plans to segregate LGBT criminals from other prisoners by housing them in a separate jail. Gay rights activist Murat Koylu told the AFP the move was "a medieval-age practice" and that "the government has once again chosen to ostracize homosexuals."
Here are six other photos from Istanbul's pride celebration:
An aerial view of Turkey's gay pride parade where tens of thousands of people marched on Sunday.
People march holding a giant rainbow flag in Istanbul's main shopping corridor.
Two men kiss during the parade on Istiklal Street.
People march down Istanbul's bustling Istiklal Street.
People kiss under a giant rainbow flag during a gay pride parade on Istiklal Street, Istanbul's main shopping corridor.
A man waves a gay pride flag amid a crowd of gay-rights supporters.

Pride Parade draws stars, thousands to downtown Seattle | Local News | The Seattle Times
The planned appearance of a venerable actor and a surprise visit by a Seattle international rap star were among highlights of the 2014 Seattle Pride Parade, drawing thousands to downtown Seattle on Sunday.
Celebrity Grand Marshal George Takei, best known for his work as "Star Trek's" Hikara Sulu, helmsman of the USS Enterprise, basked in the affection of the crowd that lined Fourth Avenue downtown for several hours.
In remarks before the parade, Takei, who is gay, congratulated Seattle and Washington state for progress on rights of gays and lesbians. He cited last year's same-sex wedding of Mayor Ed Murray as "a fantabulous landmark in American political history."
Some of the loudest cheers along the parade route were for Seattle-based rapper Macklemore, a supporter of gay and lesbian rights. His appearance had not been announced in advance.
The mood was upbeat as the crowd welcomed local grand marshals Murray and King County Executive Dow Constantine, the latter credited with signing the first same-sex-marriage licenses in Washington state.
Seattle's new police chief, Kathleen O'Toole, participated in the parade, and some police officers posed for photos with members of the crowd.
More than one speaker contrasted the atmosphere at this march with the bold pioneering of the city's first gay-pride march in 1974.
On Sunday, in a tense moment before the start of the parade, about a dozen people appeared carrying signs warning the crowd to repent and change their sinful ways.
After some brief shoving between the two sides in the street, the counter-demonstrators were allowed to pass, and police accompanied them from the parade route.
One of the parade emcees, a drag performer, said the appearance of the religious conservatives demonstrates why events such as the Pride Parade continue to be needed.
The nearly 200 entries in the parade included not just organizations formed specifically to support gays, lesbian and transgendered people, but many other sources of support such as health-care providers, labor unions, educational and civic groups, large employers and area businesses.
