DJIA hits another record close as deals, profits boost confidence | The Australian
21st Century Fox Tries to Buy Time Warner 3:27
21st Century Fox bid to buy Time Warner for $85 a share, but Time Warner rejected the offer. WSJ's Chris Dieterich joins Simon Constable on the News Hub with the markets report. Photo: Getty
Bank of America's Second-Quarter Profits Slide, and More 1:39
What's News: Bank of America posts weaker second-quarter profits. Time Warner rejects bid by 21st Century Fox. Apple and IBM team up to offer business apps, iPhones and iPads to IBM's corporate customers. Lee Hawkins reports. Photo: AP
THE Dow Jones Industrial Average charged to another record close, bolstered by upbeat corporate news and confidence that the Federal Reserve will keep interest rates low.
The Dow climbed 77.52 points, or 0.5 per cent, to 17138.20, its 15th all-time high this year. The S&P 500 index rose 8.29 points, or 0.4 per cent, to 1981.57, and the Nasdaq Composite Index gained 9.58 points, or 0.2 per cent, to 4425.97.
Investors shifted their attention to U.S. corporate-earnings reports Wednesday, after choppy trading in recent sessions on statements from the Federal Reserve and worries about a Portuguese lender. Good news from overseas helped set a positive backdrop for U.S. trading.
And a second day of testimony from Fed chairwoman Janet Yellen reinforced the idea that the central bank will keep interest rates low for an extended period.
"Until you see an increase in long-term interest rates ... stocks will be the preferred asset class for investors," said James Abate, who manages $US196 million in two funds for Centre Asset Management. "People don't have much of a choice but to remain invested in equities."
He said that continued low interest rates should spur more deals activity and share buybacks, both of which have helped support stockmarket gains. He expects interest rates to remain low for some time and has kept a high exposure to U.S. and global stocks in the Centre Multi-Asset Real Return Fund.
Wednesday's gains were fuelled by bullish trading in technology and energy stocks, said Jeffrey Yu, head of U.S. single-stock derivatives trading at UBS. But the rise also extended a rebound from the previous session's lows, he said.
Stocks dropped Tuesday morning, as Ms Yellen discussed signs of strength in the U.S. economy. But since then, "she pretty much went as dovish as possible, given the economic backdrop, which has allowed the market to bounce back," said Mr. Yu.
Upbeat reports from technology companies sparked a rally in the sector. Intel led the Dow higher, gaining 9.3 per cent after a better-than-expected earnings report from the company. The chip maker also announced it would add $US20 billion to its share buyback plan.
International Business Machines rose 2.1 per cent on news it struck an agreement with Apple to create business apps and sell iPhones and iPads to IBM's business customers. Apple slipped 0.6 per cent.
Energy stocks led the S&P 500 higher, with the sector up 1.6 per cent as oil prices rebounded from recent declines. Crude-oil futures rose 1.2 per cent to $US101.20 a barrel, after settling below $US100 for the first time since May on Tuesday.
Stocks of small-cap, social media and biotechnology companies extended their steep Tuesday drop. The Russell 2000 Index dropped 0.2 per cent, and the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index lost 1.3 per cent. A Fed report released Tuesday expressed concern about valuations in those corners of the market.
The Nasdaq Biotech Index is trading at 44.8 times its expected earnings for the next year, compared with the S&P 500's 15.7, according to FactSet.
As of the end of June, the Russell 2000 was trading at 20 times its forecast earnings, according to Russell Indexes. A few companies in those sectors could eventually justify their lofty valuations, said Jason Pride, director of investment strategy at Glenmede Trust, which oversees $US25 billion. But his firm is steering clear.
"Anybody's ability to pick the winner in those situations is probably lower than he thinks it is," he said. "It tends to be a loser's game to do that."
A handful of reports on the U.S. economy also supported stocks. A better-than-expected report on the housing market helped boost home builder shares. And a measure of producer-price inflation came in slightly above expectations in June, rising 0.4 per cent on the month, while a 0.3 per cent rise was expected.
Continued news of deals gave a boost to benchmarks as well. Shares of Time Warner rallied 17 per cent after 21st Century Fox confirmed Wednesday it offered to buy Time Warner last month, but Time Warner rejected the proposal. Fox shares slipped 4.6 per cent.
News from the financial sector was mixed, sending bank stocks in the S&P 500 down 0.1 per cent.
BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager, edged up 0.4 per cent after reporting stronger profit growth than Wall Street expected.
Bank of America dropped 1.9 per cent after reporting weaker-than-expected quarterly profit. The bank also met with the Justice Department to offer $US13 billion to settle a mortgage-securities probe, The Wall Street Journal reported.
The Stoxx Europe 600 rose 1.3 per cent, reversing part of the decline seen over the past week as concerns over the financial health of Banco Espirito Santo and its parent companies rattled markets.
In commodity markets, gold futures rose 0.2 per cent to $US1299.60 an ounce. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves inversely to its price, edged down to 2.540 per cent.
