Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Climate change is a public health issue, Obama says
White House releases 150 government data sets to help connect climate change to health problems
Post to Facebook
Climate change is a public health issue, Obama says White House releases 150 government data sets to help connect climate change to health problems Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1ybDgBC
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
2
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Climate change is a public health issue, Obama says
Gregory Korte , USA TODAY 5:32 p.m. EDT April 7, 2015
President Obama speaks while participating in a roundtable discussion on the impacts of climate change on public health at Howard University in Washington Tuesday.
(Photo: Pool, Getty Images)
WASHINGTON — Climate change is a public health issue, President Obama said Tuesday, rolling out a White House initiative to make the data connecting those dots more accessible to scientists and the public.
"What we know is that the temperature of the planet is rising," Obama told a roundtable at Howard University in Washington. "And we know that in addition to the adverse impacts that may have when it comes to more frequent hurricanes, or more powerful storms, or increased flooding, we also know that it has an impact on public health."
Wildfires create more particulate pollution, which can cause allergies and asthma, Obama said. Higher temperatures can lead to more insect-borne diseases.
"You can't cordon yourself off from air or from climate," Obama said.
The Obama administration announced Tuesday that it was releasing 150 government data sets on climate and health in order to allow scientists, application developers and the public to better understand the relationship between the two.
The White House has also convened 30 deans of medical and public health schools to better address the health impacts of climate change.
"This is not a new topic for us," said White House senior adviser Brian Deese. "This is not just a future threat, this is a present threat. And I think what the data and what the evidence shows that we're highlighting today is that climate change is affecting more — is posing a threat to more people and more places to their basic health."
Follow @gregorykorte on Twitter.
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1ybDgBC
USA NOW
Apr 07, 2015

