May 26, 2015 07:24 PM CDT May 26, 2015 07:24 PM CDT Moore: Retirement threat aside, I don't see Adrian Peterson becoming a Dallas Cowboy
Moore: Retirement threat aside, I don't see Adrian Peterson becoming a Dallas Cowboy
1/1
Michael Ainsworth/Staff Photographer
Dallas Cowboys inside linebacker Ernie Sims (59) fails to tackle Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson (28) during the first half of their NFL football game in Arlington, Texas, on November 03, 2013. (Michael Ainsworth/The Dallas Morning News)
Updated:
Related
SportsDay Dallas Cowboys beat writer David Moore hosted a chat Tuesday to talk all things football. Here are some of the highlights:
Question: How likely will the Cowboys be able to obtain Adrian Peterson if he goes through with "retirement" or uses his leverage, what would the Cowboys likely have to give up for him (guestimation), and what do you think will likely happen in the offseason with AP?
Moore: Retirement gives Peterson no leverage. He can't retire to simply break his contract then return to play for another team. I'm not sure what's happening in Minnesota at the moment equals an end-game for Peterson to wind up in Dallas. I had always maintained it was possible - not probable - that the Cowboys would pursue Peterson, but that was tied into the draft. Now that the draft has passed, I don't see it happening.
Question: Do you think another reason Cowboys are adding linebackers by the pound is they might also want some of those quicker and larger hats on special teams?
Moore: No question. The Cowboys have also made it a point of saying that unlike previous seasons, these linebackers are also solid backups. In recent years the backup linebacker have largely been special teams players that made the coaching staff nervous if they were pressed into significant snaps at the position. That's no longer the case.
Question: How many LBs do you think the Cowboys will go with on the roster this season?
Moore: At the moment I believe they have 27. Maybe 28. I've lost count. But they fluctuated between six and seven on the roster last season and I would expect the same again. Remember, some of these backups are key players on special teams.
Question: What's the latest on the Cowboys' practice facility? Have you seen any of it yet?
Moore: I have not seen it yet. The few times I've been in that area it's impossible to see much of anything because Nebraska Furniture Mart swallows up the entire county. But there's no question it will be a significant upgrade over where the team's practices now.
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

