Connecting decision                             makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and                             accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the                             world.
Apr 11, 2015 7:00 AM EDT
The problem with #millionsofMontanans is that Montana barely has one million residents, let alone two.
Montana’s Republican-led legislature voted to expand Medicaid this week, taking the state one step closer to providing health insurance to an estimated 46,000  low-income residents. The vote happened after four hours of testimony from supporters of the bill—including hospitals—and opponents organized by Americans for Prosperity, the Koch-backed conservative advocacy group, according to Kaiser Health News .
After the bill passed,  AFP tweeted that “millions of Montanans” will see their “hard earned $ will go toward higher insurance premiums thanks” to the state’s Democratic Governor Steve Bullock and President Obama. The group started the hashtag #millionsofmontanans, and,  in a statement released after the vote , AFP’s Montana State Director Zach Lahn wrote:
“We are deeply disappointed in the legislature’s decision tonight to expand Medicaid. This decision stands directly against the voices of millions of Montanans who have made it clear that they do not want more Obamacare.”
“Yesterday a ‘grassroots’ organization talked about the things #MillionsofMontanans did.”
Governor Steve Bullock
The problem: Montana has a population of 1.023 million, according to the latest Census data .
Montana’s Medicaid expansion supporters have been quick to point this out , and have accused the group of dropping into the state to derail the expansion without having genuine ties. In recent weeks, the group has held town-hall meetings across the state. The Great Falls Tribune reported last month that Lahn organized the town halls in cities whose state representatives refused to promise to vote down the bill. Bullock—who has been meeting with Republicans in the legislature throughout the year to work on a deal—pointed out that a real “grassroots” organization would know that Montana is a very sparsely populated state.
Please upgrade your Browser
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:

