posted: April 08
Updated:                                 12:10 am
Updated:                                 4:57 pm
posted: April 08
Updated:                                 4:57 pm
HOUSTON (AP) — A federal judge has wrongly prevented "common-sense policies" from taking effect by blocking President Barack Obama's executive action that seeks to shield millions of immigrants from deportation, and the federal government plans to continue its fight in a higher court, the White House said Wednesday.
White House spokesman Josh Earnest said the policies are in the best interest of the economy and supported by businesses, faith leaders and local law enforcement across the country, "including in some communities that are located in pretty red states."
U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen refused late Tuesday night to lift a temporary hold he imposed on the president's policies in February after 26 states — led by Texas — filed a lawsuit challenging the changes. The U.S. Department of Justice had asked Hanen to reverse his decision, but the Brownsville, Texas-based judge said the government had not "shown any credible reason" to immediately reverse his ruling.
That means the Obama administration is still temporarily barred from implementing policies that would allow as many as five million people to remain in the U.S. even though they live in the country illegally.
Earnest said the administration will continue its fight at the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which the Justice Department had already asked to lift the injunction. The appeals court is scheduled to hear arguments April 17.
"The fact is that the president announced common-sense policies to help bring accountability, some much-needed accountability, to our broken immigration system," Earnest said Wednesday.
Rules of Conduct
1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.
3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.
4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.
Welcome to the discussion.
Screen Name or Email
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
Subscribe to this newsletter to have the latest headlines delivered to your inbox in a Morning Edition at 6 a.m. and an Afternoon Update at 3:30 p.m.
Weekend Entertainment Guide
Looking for something to do this weekend? Subscribe to this weekly entertainment guide and get the details on local events and activities delivered at 5 p.m. each Thursday.
Video
facebook
google
yahoo
aol

