Follow this author
See their articles on your Seeking Alpha homepage and in your feed.
Real-time alerts on this author
Get their new articles emailed to you as they are published.
Daily digest on all my authors
Get all your favorite authors’ new articles emailed to you in one daily digest.
(3 followers)
Could SFXE Be A Solid Buy?
May 26, 2015  4:27 PM ET  |  Includes: LYV , SFXE by: Zach Zukowski
Summary
Transaction is valued at $774 million.
Other deals are possible during the go-shop period.
May be a solid buy at this price.
Shares of SFX Entertainment (NASDAQ: SFXE ) halted this morning as the company announced that the board unanimously approved a "definitive merger agreement whereby an affiliate of Robert F.X. Sillerman, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will acquire all the outstanding common stock of SFX that he does not already own at a price of $5.25 per share. The transaction is valued at $774 million including debt. Mr. Sillerman owns approximately 37.4 percent of the outstanding common stock of SFX Entertainment." The transaction is subject to the approval from the majority of unaffiliated stockholders.
Who the affiliate is isn't clear yet, but it is a positive sign that an affiliate is willing to pay $5.25 per share. Back in February, Sillerman announced that he was considering a going private transaction valued at $4.75 per share. The merger agreement also includes a 45 day go-shop period during which a Special Committee of independent directors "will actively solicit, receive, evaluate and potentially enter into negotiations with parties that offer alternative proposals."
SFXE has struggled to generate a profit since its IPO in late 2013, but it has captured a very valuable market share of millennials with their electronic music events. That has attracted companies such as t-mobile to engage in advertising partnerships with them. The go-shop period gives an opportunity to live-event competitors to buy all of that millennial market share from SFX Entertainment.
The company that would most likely be interested in taking over SFX Entertainment is Live Nation (NYSE: LYV ). They have a superior online ticket sales system and would greatly benefit from the fresh inflow of customers. Live Nation has struggled to become a major player in the electronic music industry, and they would reap the benefits of acquiring experienced personnel to organize possibly even larger events. Just looking at the current assets and liabilities of Live Nation, it does not seem like it will be able to pay more than $150 million without taking out another loan.
The shares of SFX Entertainment ended the day up 20% at $4.96. At that price, buying shares of SFX Entertainment would give a return of 5% when the deal closes before the end of the year. That doesn't look like too bad of a return, and there is an upside of the possibility of a higher offer. To me, it seems worth it to buy and hold some shares of SFXE at $5 and think of it as fixed income when Sillerman pays me $5.25. Do you agree/disagree? Let me know in the comments below!
Seeking Alpha PRO helps fund managers:
Research new investment ideas
Full Name
Work Email
(Assets under Management)
We only use your contact details to reply to your request for more information.
We do not sell the personal contact data you submit to anyone else.
Thank you for your interest in Seeking Alpha PRO
We look forward to contacting you shortly for a conversation.
Thank you for your interest in Seeking Alpha PRO
Our PRO subscription service was created for fund managers, and the cost of the product is prohibitive for most individual investors.  If you are an investment professional with over $1M AUM and received this message in error, click here and you will be contacted shortly.
Thank you for your interest in Seeking Alpha PRO
We look forward to contacting you when we have an individual investor product ready!
Already subscribed to PRO? Sign in here
Symbol
Price
% Chg
Remove

