Posted:
People who log onto the Family Research Council’s home page will find a variety of topics addressed by the group’s president, Tony Perkins. He expresses outrage over “the ObamaCare mandate – which is the demand by the government that they fund contraception that can end a pregnancy.” Another headline warns: “Religious liberty at risk as Supreme Court approaches gay marriage decision.”
What one won’t find on the Family Research Council’s home page is any mention of Josh Duggar, the organization’s former executive director of FRC Action, the group’s lobbying division, and the oldest of Jim Bob and Michelle Duggar’s offspring in the TLC reality television show “19 Kids and Counting.”
Last week the 27-year-old Duggar resigned his FRC post after it was revealed in a 2006 Springdale, Ark. police report obtained by In Touch magazine that he sexually molested several underage girls, including some of his sisters, in 2003.
Although the police report is heavily censored and doesn’t include the name of the person accused of “forcible fondling,” Duggar last week owned up to the allegations both on Facebook and in a statement to People magazine:
Advertisement
“Twelve years ago, as a young teenager, I acted inexcusably for which I am extremely sorry and deeply regret. I hurt others, including my family and close friends,” said Duggar, whose 26-year-old wife, Anna, is expecting their fourth child and who told People her husband confessed his “past teenage mistakes” to her two years before he proposed.
The popular “19 Kids and Counting” series was immediately cancelled by TLC executives.
The Family Research Council did issue a statement noting, “Today Josh Duggar made the decision to resign his position as a result of previously unknown information becoming public concerning events that occurred during his teenage years. Josh believes that the situation will make it difficult for him to be effective in his current work.”
Indeed for an organization that preaches “traditional family values,” having an admitted child molester as a lobbyist is not a good idea, just as having priests who sexually assault children is not a good idea for the Roman Catholic Church. However, in both cases, the molesters’ superiors took matters into their own hands before turning the cases over to civil authorities, if at all.
In the Catholic Church, members of the hierarchy for years believed child predators could be cured and sent them to the church’s own rehabilitation facilities before returning them to parish life and more potential victims. It wasn’t until a Massachusetts priest was convicted of molestation that the scandal was exposed in 2002. In Philadelphia, it took two grand jury investigations before any of the abusive priests were brought to justice because of the state statute of limitations. In the case of Josh Duggar, his parents said they sought help for him and his victims.
“When Josh was a young teenager, he made some very bad mistakes, and we were shocked. We had tried to teach him right from wrong. That dark and difficult time caused us to seek God like never before,” said Duggar’s parents.
They reportedly sent him  to a “Christian ministry” for some “hard physical work and counseling.”
“We spoke with the authorities where I confessed my wrongdoing, and my parents arranged for me and those affected by my actions to receive counseling,” said Josh Duggar.
However authorities reportedly did not learn of the allegations against the teenager until they were tipped off by a letter from one of the other Duggar children in 2006, after the statute of limitations had expired.
Josh Duggar attributes his new lease on life to “God’s grace, mercy and redemption.” His parents say they “hope somehow the story of our journey – the good times and the difficult times – cause you to see the kindness of God and learn that He can bring you through anything.”
Meanwhile, a judge has ordered Springdale authorities to expunge the police report that exposed Josh Duggar’s acts because one of his victims is still a minor and could be identified.
Obviously this judge understands that even if a child molester and his immediate superiors are feeling redeemed of their sins, it takes a whole lot more than prayer to heal the victims of sexual abuse.

