 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Google is expected to announce "Brillo" at its I/O event, a week after Huawei unveiled its own LiteOS as part of a larger IoT push.
Google and Huawei Technologies are the latest technology vendors to push an operating system for the rapidly growing Internet of things.
At the Huawei Network Congress 2015 event last week, Huawei officials unveiled LiteOS, a lightweight operating system that was introduced as part of the company's larger Agile Internet of Things (IoT) Solution which also includes an IoT gateway and controller.
Google officials reportedly will talk about the search giant's upcoming IoT OS—dubbed "Brillo"—during the Google I/O 2015 conference, which starts May 28 in San Francisco. According to reports in The Information and Fortune , Brillo—with as few as 32 or 64 megabytes of memory—will be able to run in smaller, low-power devices that will make up much of the IoT.
Google and Huawei will join a growing list of tech companies that are rolling out lightweight operating systems for the Internet of things. For example, chip designer ARM last year unveiled its mbed OS for the IoT, and Microsoft is developing a version of its upcoming Windows 10 for the IoT that officials in March said will offer a single Windows platform for everything from IoT gateways to devices like ATMs and industrial robots.
It's easy to see why Huawei, Google and others are making such aggressive pushes into the Internet of things. Cisco Systems officials have said that by 2020, there will be more than 50 billion connected devices worldwide—everything from cars and homes appliances to industrial systems, security surveillance solutions and machine-to-machine connections. Huawei officials said the number of connections will hit 100 billion by 2025, with 2 million new sensors being deployed every hour.
Vendors want to get their processors, gateways and operating systems into as many of these devices as possible.
According to unnamed sources, Brillo will be based on Google's Android operating system, which is found in the bulk of smartphones and tablets on the market. However, the OS is designed to run in mobile devices that have at least 512 MB of memory. For connected devices like smart light bulbs, sensors and thermostats—like the connected thermostats made by Google's Nest business—a much smaller, more lightweight OS is needed.
The OS will work with Nest thermostats, but is not being developed by that business, according to the reports.
Google has been rapidly growing its IoT capabilities. It bought Nest early last year for $3.2 billion, and five months later Nest bought in-home video monitoring vendor Dropcam for $555 million. Google last year also bought Revolv, which makes smart-home hubs. In addition, Nest last year was one of the founding members of the Thread Group , an industry consortium working to develop a wireless networking protocol for the IoT.
This isn't Google's first attempt at an operating system for the Internet of things. In 2011, the company announced Android@Home, but eventually that effort died out. Now Google reportedly will try again with Brillo.
For their part, Huawei officials are promising that LiteOS, at 10KB, will be the most lightweight operating system for the IoT and will be good for everything from smart home devices to wearable tech to connected cars. It will support zero configuration, auto-discovery and auto-networking, and also will be open, enabling developers to build their own IoT products on top of it.
The giant tech company is making the source code for LiteOS available for download.
 
 
 
 
 
Enterprise IT Advantage
eWeek Whitepaper Spotlight
Infrastructure Topic Center Update
Mid-Market Solutions
 
 
 
 


By Mark Rollins ( news@gospelherald.com ) May 26, 2015 07:11 PM EDT
It might not be too different from Android L. Photo: Phonearena.com
For those who are not aware, Google usually updates their Android operating system for smartphones and tablets about once a year (occasionally twice).  Usually it is announced at the Google I/O Developers Conference, which is happening on May 28-29 in San Francisco.  With the current Android operating system being Android L (also known as Android 5.0 or Lollipop) it is not known precisely what Android M will be, but there are many rumors circulating of its release date, specifics, and update information. 
According to Phone Arena , it doesn't look like Android M will be a leap to Android 6.0, but that isn't completely off the table.  The current version is 5.1, with updates constantly adding another digit onto that, so Android M is probably going to be a 5 point...something.  At the lowest, it will be a leap to 5.2. 
As far as any changes go, it doesn't look like Android M will be changing the Material Design principles that have been Android's stock interface.  There will probably be minor tweaks, but don't expect anything too revolutionary when comparing the Lollipop homescreen to the Android M homescreen. 
There is a possibility of more vocal interaction.  That is, the user will be able to interact with Android applications using only their voice, and developers will be able to add hands-free capabilities to their individual software programs.  There is also rumor of an Android M feature that is known as Nearby.  Apparently, Nearby is supposed to simplify the discovery of and communication with other Android users, similar to Airdrop on iOS. 
Like Us on Facebook
Android Pit also predicts some improved notifications, so a notification that appears on your smartphone would appear on your tablet or even PC.  Most sources agree that Android M should have some increased security features, as most phones come with fingerprint scanners these days and mobile security is becoming a big issue today. 
Boy Genius Report (BGR) has stated that there could be a new Photos App that could really improve the user's picture-taking experience.  There is also talk that Android M could somehow improve the battery life and RAM efficiency. 
One of the biggest question is what sweet treat will Android be named after?  It is a minor thing, and in case you aren't aware, Android has been naming their operating systems after sweet treats since version 1.5, aka Cupcake.  From there it has gone to Donut (1.6), Éclair (2.0), Froyo (2.2), Gingerbread (2.3), Honeycomb (3.0), Ice Cream Sandwich (4.0), JellyBean (4.1), KitKat (4.4), to Lollipop (5.0.).  There are a lot of "M" words that could be sweet treats like Marshmallow, Muffin, or they could name it after a branded candy bar like Milky way or M&M's.  That would create some interesting tie-ins.  
As for the release date, it should be assumed that Android M will not appear on Android device after the Google I/O conference, because that never seems to happen.  Usually, it is a slow rollout, and PC Advisor predicts that Android M will appear on devices at the end of October or early November 2015. 
Top Stories
MOST POPULAR
Most Popular Videos
Editor's Pick
Inside GH

