 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Google is expected to announce "Brillo" at its I/O event, a week after Huawei unveiled its own LiteOS as part of a larger IoT push.
Google and Huawei Technologies are the latest technology vendors to push an operating system for the rapidly growing Internet of things.
At the Huawei Network Congress 2015 event last week, Huawei officials unveiled LiteOS, a lightweight operating system that was introduced as part of the company's larger Agile Internet of Things (IoT) Solution which also includes an IoT gateway and controller.
Google officials reportedly will talk about the search giant's upcoming IoT OS—dubbed "Brillo"—during the Google I/O 2015 conference, which starts May 28 in San Francisco. According to reports in The Information and Fortune , Brillo—with as few as 32 or 64 megabytes of memory—will be able to run in smaller, low-power devices that will make up much of the IoT.
Google and Huawei will join a growing list of tech companies that are rolling out lightweight operating systems for the Internet of things. For example, chip designer ARM last year unveiled its mbed OS for the IoT, and Microsoft is developing a version of its upcoming Windows 10 for the IoT that officials in March said will offer a single Windows platform for everything from IoT gateways to devices like ATMs and industrial robots.
It's easy to see why Huawei, Google and others are making such aggressive pushes into the Internet of things. Cisco Systems officials have said that by 2020, there will be more than 50 billion connected devices worldwide—everything from cars and homes appliances to industrial systems, security surveillance solutions and machine-to-machine connections. Huawei officials said the number of connections will hit 100 billion by 2025, with 2 million new sensors being deployed every hour.
Vendors want to get their processors, gateways and operating systems into as many of these devices as possible.
According to unnamed sources, Brillo will be based on Google's Android operating system, which is found in the bulk of smartphones and tablets on the market. However, the OS is designed to run in mobile devices that have at least 512 MB of memory. For connected devices like smart light bulbs, sensors and thermostats—like the connected thermostats made by Google's Nest business—a much smaller, more lightweight OS is needed.
The OS will work with Nest thermostats, but is not being developed by that business, according to the reports.
Google has been rapidly growing its IoT capabilities. It bought Nest early last year for $3.2 billion, and five months later Nest bought in-home video monitoring vendor Dropcam for $555 million. Google last year also bought Revolv, which makes smart-home hubs. In addition, Nest last year was one of the founding members of the Thread Group , an industry consortium working to develop a wireless networking protocol for the IoT.
This isn't Google's first attempt at an operating system for the Internet of things. In 2011, the company announced Android@Home, but eventually that effort died out. Now Google reportedly will try again with Brillo.
For their part, Huawei officials are promising that LiteOS, at 10KB, will be the most lightweight operating system for the IoT and will be good for everything from smart home devices to wearable tech to connected cars. It will support zero configuration, auto-discovery and auto-networking, and also will be open, enabling developers to build their own IoT products on top of it.
The giant tech company is making the source code for LiteOS available for download.
 
 
 
 
 
Enterprise IT Advantage
eWeek Whitepaper Spotlight
Infrastructure Topic Center Update
Mid-Market Solutions
 
 
 
 


Android M to launch at Google I/O: Marshmallow, Muffin or Malai barfi? The guessing game continues
While Google may have chosen to name its next version Lollipop over laddoo or licorice or whatever you wished, looks like the guessing game for its next iteration will begin soon. Yes, Google has disclosed the schedule for its I/O event to be held later this month and seems like Android M will be at the show.
One of the sessions called ‘Android for Work Update’ had revealed, “Android M is bringing the power of Android to all kinds of workplaces.” Google is known to name its mobile OS versions in alphabetical order, so it’s quite likely that after Lollipop, the next name will begin with the letter ‘M’. According to ArsTechnica, Google had pulled out the description, but not before the news site got its hands on a screenshot.
So, its not yet official if Google is announcing its next iteration Android M at the event, but several users have already guessing a probable name. Some early favourites are Muffin, Mud pie and Meringue. The new report points out the Android version is internally called Macadamia Nut Cookie or MNC, but will get a new name during the launch (Marshmallow, Mudpie or so on). Some reports have been betting on ‘Marshmallow’ as the next probabale name of Google mobile OS iteration.
How about Indian dessert like Malai Barfi or Malpoa? In fact, last year a group of students from IIT-Kharagpur – which also happens to be Pichai’s alma mater – have been lobbying for the next version of Android to be named Lassi. Google also ensured the fun continues as it announced the next iteration simply as Android L and named it only after the version was ready to ship. This ensured a lot of speculation and buzz around the name.
Android 'M' is coming… Marshmallow? M&M? Muffin? Marzipan? Either way, can't wait to see it at I/O.
Android M coming out this month. Lets hope @Android selects Malpoa or Malai Barfi
Any other names you guys think would be suitable?
— Amit (@amitbhawani) May 6, 2015
Hoping Android M is Marzipan
Omg Android M. What could M stand for? Milky Way Bar? Macaroon? Marshmallow? Milkshake? Muffin? MIUI? https://t.co/Zu8itXV7mX
TNW Facebook Page fan's suggest names for @Android M…
Android M is coming at Google I/O. Your guesses for confections starting with M? M&M's colab? Eminem colab? pic.twitter.com/X2jrgmSArj
Prior to that Google chose KitKat by booting out the long-time rumoured Key lime pie. Google had also created a landing page for Kitkat. It created similar buzz with reports about if Nestle’s paid Google or vice versa for using the name KitKat. However, John Lagerling, director of Android global partnerships, quickly said, “This is not a money-changing-hands kind of deal” . Keylime Pie reportedly got the boot as Google realised that not too many people knew the actual taste of a Keylime pie.
So what do you think? What ‘sweet’ name  will Google release for Android M? Let us know. We’d love to see more options.
Also read
Recommended For You
FOLLOW US ON
Rating : 6.5 / 10
Rating : 7 / 10
Rating : 6.5 / 10
Rating : 7 / 10
22 mins ago
45 mins ago
47 mins ago
Rating : 6.5 / 10
Rating : 7 / 10
Rating : 6.5 / 10
Rating : 6.5 / 10

