 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Google is expected to announce "Brillo" at its I/O event, a week after Huawei unveiled its own LiteOS as part of a larger IoT push.
Google and Huawei Technologies are the latest technology vendors to push an operating system for the rapidly growing Internet of things.
At the Huawei Network Congress 2015 event last week, Huawei officials unveiled LiteOS, a lightweight operating system that was introduced as part of the company's larger Agile Internet of Things (IoT) Solution which also includes an IoT gateway and controller.
Google officials reportedly will talk about the search giant's upcoming IoT OS—dubbed "Brillo"—during the Google I/O 2015 conference, which starts May 28 in San Francisco. According to reports in The Information and Fortune , Brillo—with as few as 32 or 64 megabytes of memory—will be able to run in smaller, low-power devices that will make up much of the IoT.
Google and Huawei will join a growing list of tech companies that are rolling out lightweight operating systems for the Internet of things. For example, chip designer ARM last year unveiled its mbed OS for the IoT, and Microsoft is developing a version of its upcoming Windows 10 for the IoT that officials in March said will offer a single Windows platform for everything from IoT gateways to devices like ATMs and industrial robots.
It's easy to see why Huawei, Google and others are making such aggressive pushes into the Internet of things. Cisco Systems officials have said that by 2020, there will be more than 50 billion connected devices worldwide—everything from cars and homes appliances to industrial systems, security surveillance solutions and machine-to-machine connections. Huawei officials said the number of connections will hit 100 billion by 2025, with 2 million new sensors being deployed every hour.
Vendors want to get their processors, gateways and operating systems into as many of these devices as possible.
According to unnamed sources, Brillo will be based on Google's Android operating system, which is found in the bulk of smartphones and tablets on the market. However, the OS is designed to run in mobile devices that have at least 512 MB of memory. For connected devices like smart light bulbs, sensors and thermostats—like the connected thermostats made by Google's Nest business—a much smaller, more lightweight OS is needed.
The OS will work with Nest thermostats, but is not being developed by that business, according to the reports.
Google has been rapidly growing its IoT capabilities. It bought Nest early last year for $3.2 billion, and five months later Nest bought in-home video monitoring vendor Dropcam for $555 million. Google last year also bought Revolv, which makes smart-home hubs. In addition, Nest last year was one of the founding members of the Thread Group , an industry consortium working to develop a wireless networking protocol for the IoT.
This isn't Google's first attempt at an operating system for the Internet of things. In 2011, the company announced Android@Home, but eventually that effort died out. Now Google reportedly will try again with Brillo.
For their part, Huawei officials are promising that LiteOS, at 10KB, will be the most lightweight operating system for the IoT and will be good for everything from smart home devices to wearable tech to connected cars. It will support zero configuration, auto-discovery and auto-networking, and also will be open, enabling developers to build their own IoT products on top of it.
The giant tech company is making the source code for LiteOS available for download.
 
 
 
 
 
Enterprise IT Advantage
eWeek Whitepaper Spotlight
Infrastructure Topic Center Update
Mid-Market Solutions
 
 
 
 


Google's annual developer conference I/O kicks off on Thursday, just week's ahead of Apple's WWDC, and the firm is expected to have plenty of announcements up its sleeve.
Last year's Google I/O saw the firm unveil Android L (now known Android 5.0 Lollipop), as well as spill details about Google Auto, Android TV and its Android Wear platform.
We've rounded up the five things you can likely expect from Google's 2015 I/O keynote. 
Android M
Google typically unmasks the next-gen version of Android at its yearly I/O conference, and this year is expected to mark the arrival of Android M.
Tipped to arrive as Android 5.2, and no doubt named after some kind of food-stuff beginning with M, and likely will bring plenty of new features with it. Few details have leaked ahead of the launch, but a Buzzfeed report claims that Android M will arrive with native fingerprint authentication built-in.
Other speculation hints at improved battery management tools, reworked notifications and an updated Smart Lock feature.
Google Glass 2.0
Google hasn't covered up the the fact that it's working on a second version of its Google Glass wearable, which last year was discontinued.
Google Glass 2.0 is rumoured to make its debut at this year's I/O, and is set to bring with it a new design.  Speculation also suggests that Glass 2.0 will use Intel chips  in place of the ARM-based Omap processors used in the previous Glass wearable.
Brillo
No, Google isn't going to take the wraps off a new cleaning product, but it is expected to announce new software designed for the Internet of Things, codenamed Brillo.  
The software will reportedly will be on Android, and will have its sights set on low-powered devices with as little as 32MB or 64MB RAM, such as lightbulbs, thermostats and smart locks. 
Project Tango
With Google I/O focusing on developers, the firm likely will have something to say about Project Tango at this year's conference.
We could hear a firm release date for the device, that boasts multiple cameras and motion sensors for 3D mapping the world around it, after Google earlier announced that its Project Tango tablet would become available in 2015.
Self-driving cars
Google's self-driving cars could make an appearance at I/O this year, after the firm announced 'road ready' driverless vehicles back in December.
Get the latest news direct to your inbox with V3 newsletters.
Register for free to enjoy V3 in full
Quick registration grants you unlimited access to our full site and premium subscriber content including:
Expert technology news and reviews
Exclusive interviews and in-depth analysis
Full access to every issue of the V3 Tablet App (RRP £18.99)
Fully searchable archive back to 1996
Search
Friend's email address
To send to more than one email address, simply separate each address with a comma.
Your email address

