 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Google is expected to announce "Brillo" at its I/O event, a week after Huawei unveiled its own LiteOS as part of a larger IoT push.
Google and Huawei Technologies are the latest technology vendors to push an operating system for the rapidly growing Internet of things.
At the Huawei Network Congress 2015 event last week, Huawei officials unveiled LiteOS, a lightweight operating system that was introduced as part of the company's larger Agile Internet of Things (IoT) Solution which also includes an IoT gateway and controller.
Google officials reportedly will talk about the search giant's upcoming IoT OS—dubbed "Brillo"—during the Google I/O 2015 conference, which starts May 28 in San Francisco. According to reports in The Information and Fortune , Brillo—with as few as 32 or 64 megabytes of memory—will be able to run in smaller, low-power devices that will make up much of the IoT.
Google and Huawei will join a growing list of tech companies that are rolling out lightweight operating systems for the Internet of things. For example, chip designer ARM last year unveiled its mbed OS for the IoT, and Microsoft is developing a version of its upcoming Windows 10 for the IoT that officials in March said will offer a single Windows platform for everything from IoT gateways to devices like ATMs and industrial robots.
It's easy to see why Huawei, Google and others are making such aggressive pushes into the Internet of things. Cisco Systems officials have said that by 2020, there will be more than 50 billion connected devices worldwide—everything from cars and homes appliances to industrial systems, security surveillance solutions and machine-to-machine connections. Huawei officials said the number of connections will hit 100 billion by 2025, with 2 million new sensors being deployed every hour.
Vendors want to get their processors, gateways and operating systems into as many of these devices as possible.
According to unnamed sources, Brillo will be based on Google's Android operating system, which is found in the bulk of smartphones and tablets on the market. However, the OS is designed to run in mobile devices that have at least 512 MB of memory. For connected devices like smart light bulbs, sensors and thermostats—like the connected thermostats made by Google's Nest business—a much smaller, more lightweight OS is needed.
The OS will work with Nest thermostats, but is not being developed by that business, according to the reports.
Google has been rapidly growing its IoT capabilities. It bought Nest early last year for $3.2 billion, and five months later Nest bought in-home video monitoring vendor Dropcam for $555 million. Google last year also bought Revolv, which makes smart-home hubs. In addition, Nest last year was one of the founding members of the Thread Group , an industry consortium working to develop a wireless networking protocol for the IoT.
This isn't Google's first attempt at an operating system for the Internet of things. In 2011, the company announced Android@Home, but eventually that effort died out. Now Google reportedly will try again with Brillo.
For their part, Huawei officials are promising that LiteOS, at 10KB, will be the most lightweight operating system for the IoT and will be good for everything from smart home devices to wearable tech to connected cars. It will support zero configuration, auto-discovery and auto-networking, and also will be open, enabling developers to build their own IoT products on top of it.
The giant tech company is making the source code for LiteOS available for download.
 
 
 
 
 
Enterprise IT Advantage
eWeek Whitepaper Spotlight
Infrastructure Topic Center Update
Mid-Market Solutions
 
 
 
 


LATEST
May 27, 2015
May 26, 2015
May 26, 2015
May 26, 2015
Home Technology What’s in Store for Google In The Much-Awaited I/O 2015 Event
What’s in Store for Google In The Much-Awaited I/O 2015 Event
Image credit: AndroidAuthority.net
Google I/O, a two-day conference held annually by Google Inc., is set to take place this May 28 in San Francisco. In this event, Google introduces its latest software developments to enthusiasts and developers from all over the world. There are workshops that developers can attend, as well as opportunities for them to interact with engineers from Google.
The conference is popular with tech enthusiasts who want to keep up with the developments in the Android scene. This year, Google is said to launch Android M, Nearby, and more. Google’s senior vice-president of products Sundar Pichai, dubbed as Google’s product king, will give the keynote address for the event’s opening. Top Google executives occasionally make surprise appearances in the event.
No word has been given out yet about this year’s theme. Google posted on Google Plus that the company was excited to share what they have been developing in the past year.
Android M or Android 6.0 Release
Google’s lips are sealed when it comes to details about their latest Android OS versions, which they only unveil at Google I/O. In last year’s conference, Android L, also called Android Lollipop, was launched. It is rumored that this year the new Android OS will be called Android M, in which M could mean Milkshake or Marshmallow, since Google names its mobile operating systems after confectionaries and candies alphabetically.
What’s in Android M?
One of the features you can expect in Android M is voice access. You can access applications using your voice which gives a hands-free app accessibility to users. Another feature is a location-based service called Nearby. This service allows Android devices to communicate with nearby devices, people and places. The Nearby service is present in the guest mode of Chromecast and has seldom been seen in Play Services. Nothing has been confirmed yet about this feature, but it is believed that Nearby will be unveiled in the session on proximity-based communication by Andrew Bummer, the engineering lead, and Akshay Kannan, the product manager.
Designed for Families Program
Google pointed out in its email to app developers that it may present its Designed for Families program in the conference. It is speculated that the family-friendly version could roll out on Google Play by May 28. A lot of low-quality educational games and applications with many ads has been in Play Store for quite a while now, and Designed for Families will help parents easily find suitable and high-quality games and apps.
Other Google products that might be featured in the conference are the new Nexus hardware for tablets and smartphones, a product update for Chromecast which they launched two years ago, a second-generation Google Glass, and information on Google’s modular phone called Project Ara. Android One was announced at last year’s Google I/O, and it is expected that the company will give more information about its platform, performance, and release. Google’s smartwatch called Android Wear also debuted last year, and it is likely that more updates will be given in this year’s conference.
Feel free to read:
SIMILAR ARTICLES
0
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Reporter Advocate is your news, entertainment, music & fashion website. We provide you with the latest breaking news and videos straight from the entertainment industry.
We are your all-access pass to all the A-List stars around the globe.

