 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Google is expected to announce "Brillo" at its I/O event, a week after Huawei unveiled its own LiteOS as part of a larger IoT push.
Google and Huawei Technologies are the latest technology vendors to push an operating system for the rapidly growing Internet of things.
At the Huawei Network Congress 2015 event last week, Huawei officials unveiled LiteOS, a lightweight operating system that was introduced as part of the company's larger Agile Internet of Things (IoT) Solution which also includes an IoT gateway and controller.
Google officials reportedly will talk about the search giant's upcoming IoT OS—dubbed "Brillo"—during the Google I/O 2015 conference, which starts May 28 in San Francisco. According to reports in The Information and Fortune , Brillo—with as few as 32 or 64 megabytes of memory—will be able to run in smaller, low-power devices that will make up much of the IoT.
Google and Huawei will join a growing list of tech companies that are rolling out lightweight operating systems for the Internet of things. For example, chip designer ARM last year unveiled its mbed OS for the IoT, and Microsoft is developing a version of its upcoming Windows 10 for the IoT that officials in March said will offer a single Windows platform for everything from IoT gateways to devices like ATMs and industrial robots.
It's easy to see why Huawei, Google and others are making such aggressive pushes into the Internet of things. Cisco Systems officials have said that by 2020, there will be more than 50 billion connected devices worldwide—everything from cars and homes appliances to industrial systems, security surveillance solutions and machine-to-machine connections. Huawei officials said the number of connections will hit 100 billion by 2025, with 2 million new sensors being deployed every hour.
Vendors want to get their processors, gateways and operating systems into as many of these devices as possible.
According to unnamed sources, Brillo will be based on Google's Android operating system, which is found in the bulk of smartphones and tablets on the market. However, the OS is designed to run in mobile devices that have at least 512 MB of memory. For connected devices like smart light bulbs, sensors and thermostats—like the connected thermostats made by Google's Nest business—a much smaller, more lightweight OS is needed.
The OS will work with Nest thermostats, but is not being developed by that business, according to the reports.
Google has been rapidly growing its IoT capabilities. It bought Nest early last year for $3.2 billion, and five months later Nest bought in-home video monitoring vendor Dropcam for $555 million. Google last year also bought Revolv, which makes smart-home hubs. In addition, Nest last year was one of the founding members of the Thread Group , an industry consortium working to develop a wireless networking protocol for the IoT.
This isn't Google's first attempt at an operating system for the Internet of things. In 2011, the company announced Android@Home, but eventually that effort died out. Now Google reportedly will try again with Brillo.
For their part, Huawei officials are promising that LiteOS, at 10KB, will be the most lightweight operating system for the IoT and will be good for everything from smart home devices to wearable tech to connected cars. It will support zero configuration, auto-discovery and auto-networking, and also will be open, enabling developers to build their own IoT products on top of it.
The giant tech company is making the source code for LiteOS available for download.
 
 
 
 
 
Enterprise IT Advantage
eWeek Whitepaper Spotlight
Infrastructure Topic Center Update
Mid-Market Solutions
 
 
 
 


On Force.com
By Dan Heilman  / NewsFactor Network
PUBLISHED:
MAY
26
2015
The future of Google’s Android operating system is an ongoing topic of discussion among tech observers. But they got a bit of news from the horse’s mouth before the start of this week’s Google I/O developers’ conference in San Francisco. Google’s Vice President of Engineering for Android Hiroshi Lockheimer (pictured) spoke with the press about what might be coming from Android, the state of the company’s Chrome OS, and more.
Lockheimer confirmed the announcement of Android M at I/O. He also spoke about where Android came from and how it is evolving in an industry with more and more interconnected devices.
"I had no idea that this is where we would be nine-plus years later," Lockheimer said in an interview. "Maybe we should have been dreaming bigger dreams, but this has far exceeded my expectations, and it's kind of really humbling, actually. I'm wearing a watch that's running Android now. I have a TV set at home that's running Android. I'm trying out cars that have Android running in them."
Fewer Updates
In general, the Android operating system has been known for being relatively free of major flaws and being updated relatively infrequently, usually just once a year. However, there is still plenty of room for growth and improvement, especially considering the flop that Android's Lollipop version has been -- generating countless complaints from frustrated users and hundreds of horrified comments from our own readers.
"As we’ve grown as a platform, we realize that to some extent predictability is important for the whole industry: developers, manufacturers, operators, and consumers, frankly," Lockheimer told Fast Company. "So we’ve landed with sort of a yearly cadence of big releases... for instance, one year we release J, the next year we release K, and then the year after that L, and then this year we’ll launch M, and so you can predict what will happen next year."
Lockheimer also said that Android isn’t expanding to different devices simply for the sake of pushing Android to new hardware. Google wants the focus to be on enhancing the user experience across a variety of screens, and on creating one coordinated experience instead of a bunch of different flavors, he said.
OS Convergence?
Last year, Lockheimer was put in charge of Chrome OS as well as Android, a move that made some wonder if the plan was to somehow unify the two operating systems. Lockheimer didn’t confirm or deny that such a plan is in place. But he did mention that Google might find it valuable to have two different operating systems with different focuses on different user experiences.
"There’s silicon and there’s software , and those two things need to talk to each other," he said. "But where they do start to diverge -- or maybe specialize is a better word -- is as you get closer and closer to the user experience."
We'll know more this week and will be sharing the news firsthand as it unfolds at the Google I/O developer 's conference, running May 28-29 at Moscone Center West in San Francisco.
Comment:
Name:
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in Software-as-a-Service. Its award-winning CRM solution helps 82,400 customers worldwide manage and share business information over the Internet. Experience CRM success. Click here for a FREE 30-day trial.
MORE IN MOBILE TECH
Next Article >
Product Information and Resources for Technology You Can Use To Boost Your Business
CRM Systems
NEWSFACTOR.COM

