Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Christie near the back of 2016 Republican pack, poll finds
Governor Chris Christie holds his 131st Town Hall Meeting In Freehold
Gov. Chris Christie, shown in this file photo, trails many other candidates in a national poll of Republican voters (Aris Economopoulos/NJ Advance Media)
The nationwide Monmouth University poll of Republican voters released today found Christie near the back of the pack of well-known Republican candidates, and trailing several in hypothetical head-to-head match ups.
Asked to select the candidate they would like to see as the Republican nominee for President, 13 percent chose former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, followed by 11 percent for Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, 9 percent for former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, 7 percent for retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson and businessman/celebrity Donald Trump and 6 percent for Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul. Christie was tied for 8th place, at 5 percent, with Florida Sen. Marco Rubio and former Texas Gov. Rick Perry.
The poll also tested hypothetical match ups between Christie and three other candidates: Bush, Walker and Cruz. Christie trailed Walker by 32 points and Bush by 26 points and Cruz by 25 points.
"The Republican field for 2016 remains more open than it has been in past contests. Some candidates, such as Walker, seem to be better placed to form a winning coalition, while others, such as Christie, find their path to victory getting more narrow every day," said Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute.
The poll also found that 33 percent of Republican voters rated Christie favorably while 42 percent rated him unfavorably, for a net rating of negative 9 percent. Walker, the most popular of the Republicans, had a net positive rating of 35 percent.
"Scott Walker may be that rare candidate who has true cross-over appeal in all wings of the GOP. The more Republican voters get to know him, the more they like him; and that goes for conservatives, moderates, and Tea Party supporters alike," said Murray.
While 13 potential Republican candidates were rated more favorably than Christie, he did score better than South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, former New York Gov. George Pataki and Trump, who rounded out the list with a negative net rating of 28 percent.
 
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for your subscription!
To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Political Viewpoints
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

