Posted:
WASHINGTON -- Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) is airing the first television ad of the 2016 campaign cycle on Easter weekend, a spot that emphasizes his religious background as he seeks the Republican presidential nomination.
"Were it not for the transformative love of Jesus Christ, I would have been raised by a single mom without my father in the household," Cruz says in the 30-second ad, entitled "Blessing." The ad shows several scenes of Cruz and others in prayer.
It is scheduled to air in the early presidential primary states of Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. It will also appear during the airing of "Killing Jesus," a Fox News documentary on the death of Christ, based on host Bill O'Reilly's book of the same name.
Cruz, the first Republican to officially declare his bid for president, is presenting himself as the conservative alternative to more establishment picks like former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, and is betting on his appeal with social conservatives to boost him toward the GOP nomination.
He formally announced his campaign last month at Liberty University, a Christian college in Lynchburg, Virginia, where he spoke about his faith and warned that too many evangelical Christians were “staying home” from presidential elections.
“Imagine instead millions of people of faith all across America coming out to the polls and voting our values,” he said in his speech.
Watch Cruz's ad above.


Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) left, greets Former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin (R) after introducing her at the 40th annual Conservative Political Action Conference in National Harbor, Md., Saturday, March 16, 2013. Diehard activists at the three-day conference are already picking favorites in what could be a crowded Republican presidential primary in 2016. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)
FILE - In this Jan. 31, 2013 file photo Armed Services committee member, Republican Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), questions former Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), President Barack Obama's choice for defense secretary, during Hagel's confirmation hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington. Weeks into his job, Texas Republicans are cheering Cruz's indelicate debut and embracing him as one of their own. The insurgent Republican elected with the tea party's blessing and bankroll, has run afoul of GOP mainstays, and prompted Democrats to compare his style to McCarthyism. Also seen from left are Sen.s Roy Blunt, R-Mo., and Mike Lee, R-Utah. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File)
Ted Cruz, a Republican candidate for U.S. Senate, addresses the Republican National Convention in Tampa, Fla., on Tuesday, Aug. 28, 2012. (AP Photo/Charlie Neibergall)
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) speaks to the media, Wednesday, Aug. 1, 2012, in Houston a day after defeating Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst in a runoff. (AP Photo/Pat Sullivan)
WASHINGTON, DC - MARCH 13:  Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) holds a news conference to announce their plan to defund the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, at the U.S. Capitol March 13, 2013 in Washington, DC. Although Cruz and his fellow sponsors expect the legislation to fail, they believe it is an important survey of who supports health care reform.  (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Sen. Ted Cruz of (R-Texas) addresses the Republican National Convention in Tampa, Fla., on Tuesday, Aug. 28, 2012. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) answers questions from the media at a voting precinct Tuesday, July 31, 2012, in Houston. Cruz faces Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst in the Republican primary runoff election for the Republican nomination for the U.S. Senate. (AP Photo/Pat Sullivan)
Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas) answers a question during an event held by the Austin Chamber of Commerce in Austin, Texas on Friday, April 5, 2013. Titled "A Conversation with Senator Ted Cruzon Business Issues," the event was held at the Four Seasons hotel and featured moderator John Holmes who asked Sen. Cruz questions from the audience. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Deborah Cannon) AUSTIN CHRONICLE OUT, COMMUNITY IMPACT OUT, MAGS OUT; NO SALES; INTERNET AND TV MUST CREDIT PHOTOGRAPHER AND STATESMAN.COM
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) speaks to the Spring Branch Republican Club Monday, Nov. 5, 2012, in Houston. Cruz is running against Democrat Paul Sadler to replace retiring U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison. (AP Photo/David J. Phillip)
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) arrives to speak at the 40th annual Conservative Political Action Conference in National Harbor, Md., Saturday, March 16, 2013. Diehard activists at the three-day conference are already picking favorites in what could be a crowded Republican presidential primary in 2016. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)
WASHINGTON, DC - APRIL 22:  Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) listens to testimony during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on April 22, 2013 in Washington, DC.The committee is hearing testimony on border security, economic opportunities and the Immigration Modernization Act.  (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) debates Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, not shown, at the King Street Patriots event hall, Monday, July 23, 2012, in Houston. The two Republican candidates for the U.S. Senate have repeatedly torn into each other during the third debate as early voting began across Texas. (AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Michael Paulsen)
WASHINGTON, DC - MARCH 13:  Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) holds a news conference to announce their plan to defund the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, at the U.S. Capitol March 13, 2013 in Washington, DC. Although Cruz and his fellow sponsors expect the legislation to fail, they believe it is an important survey of who supports health care reform.  (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) waves as he arrives at a polling station to speak to media and voters in Dallas, Thursday, Nov. 1, 2012. Cruz faces Democratic candidate Paul Sadler for the U.S. Senate seat vacated by fellow Republican Kay Bailey Hutchison. (AP Photo/LM Otero)
Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas) speaks during a news conference at the Capitol in Austin, Texas, on Monday, April 1, 2013. Cruz, along with other Republican officials, announced that they believe that Medicaid is a broken system, and that expanding it under the Affordable Care Act is the wrong move for Texas. Shown, from left, are Governor Rick Perry, US Senator John Cornyn and Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Deborah Cannon)
WASHINGTON, DC - MARCH 22:  U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) talks with a reporter outside the Senate chamber on Capitol Hill March 22, 2013 in Washington, DC. The Senate voted on amendments to the budget resolution on Friday afternoon and into the evening. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), left, smiles as he listens to campaign chief consultant Jason Johnson go over election results as they come in Tuesday, Nov. 6, 2012, in Houston. Cruz is running against Democrat Paul Sadler to replace retiring U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison. (AP Photo/David J. Phillip)
 Share
 Tweet
More:
Conversations
Options
Politics
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Politics
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Politics
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

