27 May 2015
Rehearsals have been taking place at Westminster ahead of the Queen's Speech
An EU referendum, tax cuts for low-earners and an extension of Right to Buy will be promised in the first all-Conservative Queen's Speech since 1996.
Prime Minister David Cameron said the speech would set out a "clear vision for what our country can be".
Labour said the reality would be "very different from the rhetoric", while Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg will accuse the Tories of abandoning liberalism.
The Queen's Speech is the centrepiece of the State Opening of Parliament.
It sets out the government's legislative plans and is announced by the sovereign in the presence of MPs, peers and other dignitaries in the House of Lords.
Mr Cameron said he would not "waste a single moment" in delivering his manifesto promises following the Conservatives' election victory.
Bill of Rights plan
These include a bill paving the way for a referendum on the UK's membership of the European Union, promised by 2017.
While the precise wording of the question to be put to voters has not been confirmed, the Yes option is expected to be to remain part of the EU.
There will also be a pledge that nobody working 30 hours a week on the minimum wage will pay any income tax, and housing association tenants will also be given the same right to buy their homes as people living in council accommodation.
Other measures that are expected include:
Further Scottish devolution and plans to give English MPs more say over measures that only affect England
A new counter-extremism bill aimed at tackling radicalisation
Legislation to introduce a blanket ban on so-called legal highs
An increase in free childcare for three and four year-olds to 30 hours a week
A consultation, rather than new legislation, is expected in relation to Conservative plans to scrap the Human Rights Act and replace it with a British Bill of Rights, BBC political correspondent Ross Hawkins said.
Proposed legislation, aimed at trying to limit abuse of human rights laws, has been criticised by some Conservative MPs.
Michael Gove, the new justice secretary, is leading the proposals, which are expected to be on hold until wider consultation has taken place.
Queen's Speech in numbers
This will be the 62nd speech Queen Elizabeth has delivered in person, and the 64th of her reign - in 1959 and 1963 she did not attend as she was pregnant
The longest, in 1999, had 1,763 words
The shortest, 737 words long, came in 2009
The average length has been nine minutes, 50 seconds
Sir John Major was prime minister last time an all-Conservative government unveiled a Queen's Speech.
Mr Cameron said his programme would mean that "wherever you live you can have the chance of a good education, a decent job, a home of your own and the peace of mind that comes from being able to raise a family and enjoy a secure retirement".
But Harriet Harman, Labour's acting leader, said the Conservatives wanted to "set the nations of the country against each other" and threaten "basic rights at work".
Mr Clegg - who was deputy prime minister until the general election left the Lib Dems with just eight MPs - is to respond for his party.
He will criticise moves to replace the Human Rights Act, saying it is "dispiriting - if pretty unsurprising" that the Conservative government is "turning its back" on the liberal stance championed by his party in the coalition.
Following the Queen's Speech the new Parliament session will begin in the afternoon, with the Commons and Lords debating the policies set out.

