Kathay Feng and Arnold Schwarzenegger
Nick Ut, Associated Press
Kathay Feng of California Common Cause, at a 2008 event with then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Feng's group backed creation of the state's citizen redistricting commission.
Kathay Feng of California Common Cause, at a 2008 event with then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Feng's group backed creation of the state's citizen redistricting commission. (Nick Ut, Associated Press)
U.S. Supreme Court weighs two cases that could upend the way California's congressional districts are drawn
In recent years, California voters have backed a series of changes to the state's elections system to reshape its political landscape. Now, potential upheaval is brewing again, this time from the U.S. Supreme Court.
Next month, the nation's highest court will rule on a case challenging the legality of independent commissions to draw congressional districts. On Tuesday, the court said it would consider whether state and local voting districts should be based on total population or eligible voters.
Both cases could have enormous implications in California, where voters first approved citizen-led redistricting panels nearly seven years ago and where the state's burgeoning immigrant population has contoured the political map, regardless of eligibility to vote.
Should the Supreme Court issue rulings overhauling the redistricting process, it would be a "one-two punch to the gut to California," said Bruce Cain, professor of political science at Stanford University.
California has adopted a "top-two" primary system, altered legislative term limits and created an independent redistricting panel to strip partisanship from the crafting of political maps. All those changes were approved by voters as ballot initiatives.
"We have now gone through a decade of voters supporting major electoral reforms in order to try to bring our state Legislature and congressional delegation to a place where we feel they're more responsive and much more functional," said Kathay Feng, executive director of California Common Cause, an advocacy group that backed such measures.
But that may not stop the Supreme Court — which has shown an eagerness to take on big electoral cases — from upending things.
The fate of the citizen redistricting commission hangs most directly in the balance, pending a decision by the court in June about whether such panels are legally allowed to determine congressional districts.
If the court strikes down independent commissions, it could set off a scramble in the Legislature to redraw California's congressional map. (Legislative districts, which were also determined by the citizens panel, would not be affected).
Elected officials, legal wonks and advocacy groups "are trying to figure out — for every single permutation — how do we bring stability as quickly as possible in a way that is as close to what we believe the voters' will is," said Feng.
The second court case — on how political districts are to be drawn — may have even larger reverberations when it is decided next year.
If the court rules that only citizens who are eligible to vote should be counted to determine districts, it could shift political power away from areas with large Latino populations.
Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Assn. of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, said he was "very, very unsettled" about the court's decision to take up the case.
"To suggest that political representation is entitled to voters only would be a dramatic change in terms of how people are treated," Vargas said.
The partisan implications of such a decision are murky.
Counting only eligible voters could shift power from urban districts, with large noncitizen populations, to rural ones, which might benefit Republicans, who tend to represent such areas.
But while Democrats represent many of the poor districts that could lose clout, they also hold seats in affluent areas that might gain influence.
Cain, of Stanford, said he'd expect Republicans to pick up a few more seats in the Legislature but would not anticipate a partisan sea change.
"You can't turn this into a Republican state," he said.
Comments


The Columbus Dispatch
Customer Service
For service, call 1-877-734-7728.
For billing, call 1-866-790-7748.
Subscriptions
Advertising
To place help wanted ads, call 614-888-8888 or visit ColumbusJobs.com
For private seller and classified advertising, call 614-888-8888 or visit DispatchClassifieds.com .
For retail advertising, call 614-461-5500 or email us .
For national advertising, call 614-461-5199.
For online advertising, call 614-461-5143 or email us .
Newsroom
To send news tips, use our News Tip Form or call 614-461-5200.
Dispatch Careers
Fax 614-461-5565.
Interested in delivering The Dispatch or The Bag? Check out dispatch.com/delivery or dispatch.com/bagdelivery .
Total Access
Enjoy the convenience of home delivery plus Digital D. Sign up for our BEST VALUE today!
Online? On the go? Enjoy unlimited premium dispatch.com content plus the E-Edition for computer and iPad.
Award-winning journalism conveniently delivered to your home. Choose the custom package best suited for you!
Local
More Articles
By Adam Liptak THE NEW YORK TIMES  •  Tuesday May 26, 2015 11:19 PM
WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to hear a case that will answer a long-contested question about a bedrock principle of the U.S. political system: the meaning of “one person one vote.”
The court’s ruling, expected in 2016, could be immensely consequential. Should the court agree with the two Texas voters who brought the case, its ruling would shift political power from cities to rural areas, a move that would benefit Republicans.
The court has never resolved whether voting districts should have the same number of people or the same number of eligible voters. Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places with large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally, including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants, children and prisoners. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.
A ruling that districts must be based on equal numbers of voters would move political power away from cities and toward older and more homogeneous rural areas.
Richard H. Pildes, a law professor at New York University, said it “would be most significant in border states, like California, Texas, Arizona and Nevada, that have the largest proportions of noncitizens.”
The Supreme Court for nearly 25 years has turned away at least three similar challenges. But since Chief Justice John Roberts has led the court, it has been active in other voting cases.
The new case, Evenwel v. Abbott, No. 14-940, concerns state and local voting districts. But “the logic of the decision in Evenwel will likely carry over to congressional redistricting,” said Richard L. Hasen, a law professor at the University of California, Irvine.
The case, a challenge to voting districts for the Texas Senate, was brought by Sue Evenwel and Edward Pfenninger, who said their voting power had been diluted. They are represented by the Project on Fair Representation, a small conservative advocacy group.
“There are voters or potential voters in Texas whose Senate votes are worth approximately one and one-half times that of appellants,” their brief said.
The Bottom Line
The Bottom Line
Product recalls

