Kathay Feng and Arnold Schwarzenegger
Nick Ut, Associated Press
Kathay Feng of California Common Cause, at a 2008 event with then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Feng's group backed creation of the state's citizen redistricting commission.
Kathay Feng of California Common Cause, at a 2008 event with then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Feng's group backed creation of the state's citizen redistricting commission. (Nick Ut, Associated Press)
U.S. Supreme Court weighs two cases that could upend the way California's congressional districts are drawn
In recent years, California voters have backed a series of changes to the state's elections system to reshape its political landscape. Now, potential upheaval is brewing again, this time from the U.S. Supreme Court.
Next month, the nation's highest court will rule on a case challenging the legality of independent commissions to draw congressional districts. On Tuesday, the court said it would consider whether state and local voting districts should be based on total population or eligible voters.
Both cases could have enormous implications in California, where voters first approved citizen-led redistricting panels nearly seven years ago and where the state's burgeoning immigrant population has contoured the political map, regardless of eligibility to vote.
Should the Supreme Court issue rulings overhauling the redistricting process, it would be a "one-two punch to the gut to California," said Bruce Cain, professor of political science at Stanford University.
California has adopted a "top-two" primary system, altered legislative term limits and created an independent redistricting panel to strip partisanship from the crafting of political maps. All those changes were approved by voters as ballot initiatives.
"We have now gone through a decade of voters supporting major electoral reforms in order to try to bring our state Legislature and congressional delegation to a place where we feel they're more responsive and much more functional," said Kathay Feng, executive director of California Common Cause, an advocacy group that backed such measures.
But that may not stop the Supreme Court — which has shown an eagerness to take on big electoral cases — from upending things.
The fate of the citizen redistricting commission hangs most directly in the balance, pending a decision by the court in June about whether such panels are legally allowed to determine congressional districts.
If the court strikes down independent commissions, it could set off a scramble in the Legislature to redraw California's congressional map. (Legislative districts, which were also determined by the citizens panel, would not be affected).
Elected officials, legal wonks and advocacy groups "are trying to figure out — for every single permutation — how do we bring stability as quickly as possible in a way that is as close to what we believe the voters' will is," said Feng.
The second court case — on how political districts are to be drawn — may have even larger reverberations when it is decided next year.
If the court rules that only citizens who are eligible to vote should be counted to determine districts, it could shift political power away from areas with large Latino populations.
Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Assn. of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, said he was "very, very unsettled" about the court's decision to take up the case.
"To suggest that political representation is entitled to voters only would be a dramatic change in terms of how people are treated," Vargas said.
The partisan implications of such a decision are murky.
Counting only eligible voters could shift power from urban districts, with large noncitizen populations, to rural ones, which might benefit Republicans, who tend to represent such areas.
But while Democrats represent many of the poor districts that could lose clout, they also hold seats in affluent areas that might gain influence.
Cain, of Stanford, said he'd expect Republicans to pick up a few more seats in the Legislature but would not anticipate a partisan sea change.
"You can't turn this into a Republican state," he said.
Comments


May 26, 2015 11:33 PM CDT May 26, 2015 11:33 PM CDT Supreme Court to hear Texas case that could change how voting maps drawn
Supreme Court to hear Texas case that could change how voting maps drawn
Updated:
26 May 2015 11:33 PM
WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court said Tuesday that it will hear a case next year brought by two Texans that takes aim at perhaps the court’s most important voting rights doctrine — the principle of one person, one vote.
If successful, the case would radically change the way lawmakers draw voting maps every 10 years and could require every voting map in the country to be redrawn, from Congress to city council.
The Supreme Court created the one-man, one-vote rule in 1964, when it ruled that the 14th Amendment requires voter maps to be based on population, not geographic boundaries. In Texas, for instance, that meant that each Senate district in the maps redrawn in 2013 contained about 811,000 people.
It’s why seven Senate districts slice through Dallas, but a single district — the 28th near Lubbock — can stretch across all or parts of 51 counties in far West Texas.
But in their 2014 lawsuit, lawyers for Titus County GOP chairwoman Sue Evenwel and Edward Pfenninger of Montgomery County argued that only the number of eligible voters, not total residents, should count when deciding how to draw a voting district. Those ineligible to vote — children, immigrants, felons and the mentally incapacitated — shouldn’t count, they said.
“The equal protection right secures more than ballot access,” their lawyers argued. “It also ensures that the vote of any one voter once cast is accorded equal weight relative to every other voter.”
Conservative scholars hailed the court’s announcement, saying it’s time for the court to decide whether one person, one vote really means one voter, one vote
“The case takes up an issue the court has not decided,” said former Federal Election Commissioner Hans von Spakovsky, who now manages the voting rights reform campaign for the Heritage Foundation. “This is becoming a bigger and bigger problem as we have a larger and larger number of people who aren’t U.S. citizens living here.”
Others in Texas were alarmed, however. The changes could weaken the influence of voters in cities, where the percentage of residents who are not eligible to vote is often higher than in rural areas. And others asserted that lawmakers and local officials should represent the interests of all people, whether or not they are eligible to vote.
Matt Angle, director of the Democratic-affiliated Lone Star Project PAC, said using another district-drawing standard would let legislators dilute the influence of urban and minority-majority areas.
“It’s a not-thinly-veiled attempt to diminish minority voting strength in Texas,” said Angle, who’s been involved for more than two decades in the often bitter politics of redistricting in Texas.
Nina Perales, vice president of litigation for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said that while a different method might work in other states, “it's a very bad idea” in a state as diverse as Texas.
“The effects in Texas would be so dramatic in terms of stripping representation,” she said. “[The plaintiffs] want to force certain groups of people into heavily overpopulated districts in order to reduce their impact.”
The Supreme Court has never defined what it meant by “one person, one vote,” wading into what had until the 1950s been the exclusive province of state lawmakers. And when it did adopt the rule, it left the states to decide whether to draw their maps based on voter rolls or total population.
Since then, every state has chosen to do so based on total population, with minor variances.
“It’s really interesting because it asks the court to explain, for the first time, what is the one-person, one-vote doctrine really about?” Stanford University law professor Nathaniel Persily said. “Is it about equal representation of a community? Is it about evenly distributing the workload of legislators?”
The logistics of a new standard, he said, would be a nightmare.
“There is no national list of citizens out there. You don’t have data to know for sure who is a citizen and who is not. The Supreme Court is not going to order the lawmakers to essentially create a national list of citizens, something we have never had before.”
mlindenberger@dallasnews.com;
slane@dallasnews.com
and Sylvan Lane at @sylvanlane.
top picks
Big houses
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

