Kathay Feng and Arnold Schwarzenegger
Nick Ut, Associated Press
Kathay Feng of California Common Cause, at a 2008 event with then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Feng's group backed creation of the state's citizen redistricting commission.
Kathay Feng of California Common Cause, at a 2008 event with then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Feng's group backed creation of the state's citizen redistricting commission. (Nick Ut, Associated Press)
U.S. Supreme Court weighs two cases that could upend the way California's congressional districts are drawn
In recent years, California voters have backed a series of changes to the state's elections system to reshape its political landscape. Now, potential upheaval is brewing again, this time from the U.S. Supreme Court.
Next month, the nation's highest court will rule on a case challenging the legality of independent commissions to draw congressional districts. On Tuesday, the court said it would consider whether state and local voting districts should be based on total population or eligible voters.
Both cases could have enormous implications in California, where voters first approved citizen-led redistricting panels nearly seven years ago and where the state's burgeoning immigrant population has contoured the political map, regardless of eligibility to vote.
Should the Supreme Court issue rulings overhauling the redistricting process, it would be a "one-two punch to the gut to California," said Bruce Cain, professor of political science at Stanford University.
California has adopted a "top-two" primary system, altered legislative term limits and created an independent redistricting panel to strip partisanship from the crafting of political maps. All those changes were approved by voters as ballot initiatives.
"We have now gone through a decade of voters supporting major electoral reforms in order to try to bring our state Legislature and congressional delegation to a place where we feel they're more responsive and much more functional," said Kathay Feng, executive director of California Common Cause, an advocacy group that backed such measures.
But that may not stop the Supreme Court — which has shown an eagerness to take on big electoral cases — from upending things.
The fate of the citizen redistricting commission hangs most directly in the balance, pending a decision by the court in June about whether such panels are legally allowed to determine congressional districts.
If the court strikes down independent commissions, it could set off a scramble in the Legislature to redraw California's congressional map. (Legislative districts, which were also determined by the citizens panel, would not be affected).
Elected officials, legal wonks and advocacy groups "are trying to figure out — for every single permutation — how do we bring stability as quickly as possible in a way that is as close to what we believe the voters' will is," said Feng.
The second court case — on how political districts are to be drawn — may have even larger reverberations when it is decided next year.
If the court rules that only citizens who are eligible to vote should be counted to determine districts, it could shift political power away from areas with large Latino populations.
Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Assn. of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, said he was "very, very unsettled" about the court's decision to take up the case.
"To suggest that political representation is entitled to voters only would be a dramatic change in terms of how people are treated," Vargas said.
The partisan implications of such a decision are murky.
Counting only eligible voters could shift power from urban districts, with large noncitizen populations, to rural ones, which might benefit Republicans, who tend to represent such areas.
But while Democrats represent many of the poor districts that could lose clout, they also hold seats in affluent areas that might gain influence.
Cain, of Stanford, said he'd expect Republicans to pick up a few more seats in the Legislature but would not anticipate a partisan sea change.
"You can't turn this into a Republican state," he said.
Comments


Casting ballots
Los Angeles Times
If Supreme Court justices eventually rule in favor of the appeal and say voting districts should be drawn based on the number of eligible voters, the political power of Latinos in large states such as Texas, California and Florida could be diluted.
If Supreme Court justices eventually rule in favor of the appeal and say voting districts should be drawn based on the number of eligible voters, the political power of Latinos in large states such as Texas, California and Florida could be diluted.
(Los Angeles Times)
U.S. Supreme Court accepts case that could bring big changes to the way voting districts are drawn
Should voting districts be drawn using data on total population or by counting only citizens eligible to vote?
For 50 years the “one person, one vote” principle has been used to try to equally distribute political power by counting all people in states and cities, and then putting them into election districts of roughly the same size.
But the mathematics of power may be about to change in a way that could shift political clout away from the fast-growing Latino communities in states such as California, Texas and Florida, and move it to suburban and rural communities.
The Supreme Court said Tuesday that it will hear a Texas case to decide whether voting districts should continue to be drawn by using census data on total population, including immigrants who are in the United States both legally and illegally, or by counting only citizens who are eligible to vote, as conservative challengers are now seeking.
Election law analysts were surprised by the court’s move. Despite decades of decisions on voting rights, the justices have steered clear of clarifying whether election districts should have an equal number of residents or an equal number of eligible voters.
But the justices announced Tuesday that they would decide whether states “deny voters an equal right” when they count all the residents, including immigrants, in drawing their election districts.
The court said it will hear the case in the fall and rule early next year.
The case was brought to the high court by Edward Blum, a conservative activist who two years ago won the Supreme Court ruling that struck down part of the Voting Rights Act. Blum also launched a constitutional challenge to the affirmative action policy at the University of Texas that is still pending.
“My interest is in restoring the original principles of the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s,” Blum said Tuesday. “Your race and ethnicity should be not be used to help or harm your position in life.”
He has tried for more than 15 years to persuade the high court to clarify the “one person, one vote” rule. “I’m hopeful and confident we will prevail,” he said.
Blum sued on behalf of Sue Evenwel, a county chairwoman for the Texas Republican Party. She lives in mostly rural Titus County in east Texas.
Her state Senate district had 533,010 citizens of voting age in 2011. However, another Senate district had 372,00 citizens of voting age.
TruthShines
The appeal in Evenwel vs. Abbott argues that her right to an equal vote is being denied because Texas officials relied on the census data to balance the districts. Requiring states to switch to counting only citizens will "ensure that voters are afforded the basic right to an equal vote," her lawyers said.
In the 1960s, the high court adopted the "one person, one vote" rule to require that election districts be roughly equal in population. Prior to that time, many states gave each county a representative in the state Senate, thereby giving thinly populated rural areas the same clout as major cities.
This rule is based on the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment, and it is applied to all state elections, including for state legislators, county boards, city council or local school boards. The appeal does not directly challenge congressional districts, but if the justices rule broadly, it could also apply to members of Congress.
At least once a decade, these districts may be redrawn based on new census data. The U.S. Census Bureau seeks to count the total population, including noncitizens and immigrants in the country illegally.
This data is considered reliable. Stanford Law Professor Nate Persily, an expert on voting, questioned whether comparable figures exist to tally the actual number of citizens.
“We don’t have a national list of citizens,” he said. The data cited in the Texas case comes from a Census survey of about 2% of households that counts citizens. “If you are only counting 2% of the households, there will be wild inaccuracies. It would be crazy to force states to draw districts with this data,” he said.
The appeal in the Texas case noted that same issue arose in Los Angeles County in 1990.
By a 2-1 vote, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a ruling that required the county Board of Supervisors to redraw its districts and create one with a Latino majority. In dissent, Judge Alex Kozinski questioned the premise of relying on the total population figures, rather than on the count of citizens who were eligible to vote.
UPDATE
12:36 p.m.: This article was updated throughout to include more background and reaction.
The first version of this article was published at 6:42 a.m.
Related Content
Comments

