Kathay Feng and Arnold Schwarzenegger
Nick Ut, Associated Press
Kathay Feng of California Common Cause, at a 2008 event with then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Feng's group backed creation of the state's citizen redistricting commission.
Kathay Feng of California Common Cause, at a 2008 event with then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Feng's group backed creation of the state's citizen redistricting commission. (Nick Ut, Associated Press)
U.S. Supreme Court weighs two cases that could upend the way California's congressional districts are drawn
In recent years, California voters have backed a series of changes to the state's elections system to reshape its political landscape. Now, potential upheaval is brewing again, this time from the U.S. Supreme Court.
Next month, the nation's highest court will rule on a case challenging the legality of independent commissions to draw congressional districts. On Tuesday, the court said it would consider whether state and local voting districts should be based on total population or eligible voters.
Both cases could have enormous implications in California, where voters first approved citizen-led redistricting panels nearly seven years ago and where the state's burgeoning immigrant population has contoured the political map, regardless of eligibility to vote.
Should the Supreme Court issue rulings overhauling the redistricting process, it would be a "one-two punch to the gut to California," said Bruce Cain, professor of political science at Stanford University.
California has adopted a "top-two" primary system, altered legislative term limits and created an independent redistricting panel to strip partisanship from the crafting of political maps. All those changes were approved by voters as ballot initiatives.
"We have now gone through a decade of voters supporting major electoral reforms in order to try to bring our state Legislature and congressional delegation to a place where we feel they're more responsive and much more functional," said Kathay Feng, executive director of California Common Cause, an advocacy group that backed such measures.
But that may not stop the Supreme Court — which has shown an eagerness to take on big electoral cases — from upending things.
The fate of the citizen redistricting commission hangs most directly in the balance, pending a decision by the court in June about whether such panels are legally allowed to determine congressional districts.
If the court strikes down independent commissions, it could set off a scramble in the Legislature to redraw California's congressional map. (Legislative districts, which were also determined by the citizens panel, would not be affected).
Elected officials, legal wonks and advocacy groups "are trying to figure out — for every single permutation — how do we bring stability as quickly as possible in a way that is as close to what we believe the voters' will is," said Feng.
The second court case — on how political districts are to be drawn — may have even larger reverberations when it is decided next year.
If the court rules that only citizens who are eligible to vote should be counted to determine districts, it could shift political power away from areas with large Latino populations.
Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Assn. of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, said he was "very, very unsettled" about the court's decision to take up the case.
"To suggest that political representation is entitled to voters only would be a dramatic change in terms of how people are treated," Vargas said.
The partisan implications of such a decision are murky.
Counting only eligible voters could shift power from urban districts, with large noncitizen populations, to rural ones, which might benefit Republicans, who tend to represent such areas.
But while Democrats represent many of the poor districts that could lose clout, they also hold seats in affluent areas that might gain influence.
Cain, of Stanford, said he'd expect Republicans to pick up a few more seats in the Legislature but would not anticipate a partisan sea change.
"You can't turn this into a Republican state," he said.
Comments


The Supreme Court agreed Tuesday to hear a case about the definition of "one person, one vote."
The court has never officially clarified whether the phrase refers to voting districts having the same number of people or the same number of people eligible to vote, The New York Times explains . In a 1964 case, Reynolds v. Sims, the court ruled that voting districts must have similar numbers of people, but the court didn't make clear which definition it meant.
The new case, Evenwel v. Abbott, could affect districts with large populations of non-eligible voters, such as immigrants who are not U.S. citizens, prisoners, and children. Sue Evenwel and Edward Pfenninger, the challengers who brought the case against voting districts for the Texas Senate, explained in their briefing that "there are voters or potential voters in Texas whose Senate votes are worth approximately one and one-half times that of appellants."
 
 
 
 
Writer Flannery O'Connor will be honored with a Forever postage stamp, the U.S. Postal Service announced Tuesday.
Flannery O'Connor to appear on new USPS "Forever" stamp http://t.co/Epx4OOgzGY pic.twitter.com/RYNLrgQDeQ
The stamp for 3-ounce packages will debut on June 5 and feature peacock feathers, the Los Angeles Times reports, a nod to the fact that O'Connor raised peacocks on her family's farm in Georgia. O'Connor was born in Savannah in 1925, and wrote Wise Blood and The Violent Bear It Away. The Complete Stories of Flannery O'Connor won a 1972 National Book Award for fiction, and was named the Best of the National Book Awards 1950-2008 by a public vote.
 
The Vatican's top diplomat said on Tuesday that the legalization of gay marriage in Ireland is a "defeat for humanity."
At a news conference in Rome, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the Vatican's secretary of state and second to the pope in the Holy See's hierarchy, said he was "deeply saddened by the result" of the vote. "The church must take account of this reality, but in the sense that it must strengthen its commitment to evangelization," he added.
 
In a court filing, the State Department proposed posting online large bundles of Hillary Clinton's emails from her time as secretary of state every 60 days, starting on June 30.
"The department will strive to produce as many documents as possible on each production date, and will file a status report one week after each production to inform the court of the number of pages posted," Justice Department lawyers wrote. "The department is keenly aware of the intense public interest in the documents and wants to get releasable materials out as soon as possible."
 
scary
 
A bomb threat made by an anonymous caller on Tuesday targeted EVA Air Flight 12 as it flew from Taipei to Los Angeles.
#UPDATE Passengers are starting to exit an #EVA Air flight at #LAX after today's phone threat: http://t.co/rRegfIDll1 pic.twitter.com/O0QpzbL5qS
After it landed safely at around 3:30 p.m., the plane was directed to a secure area reserved for planes that are experiencing problems, CBS Los Angeles reports . At about 5:30 p.m., passengers began to get off the plane and were driven away in buses. FBI agents, Homeland Security officials, and Los Angeles Police Department officers are all on the scene, and in a statement, the FBI said that "all threats, regardless of known credibility, are taken seriously."
 
A new study published in the journal   BMJ has found that women who take birth control pills that use newer types of the progestin hormone have three times the risk of developing blood clots compared with women not taking the oral contraceptive.
Blood clots have been a known risk of taking the pill since the 1990s. Drugmakers have been changing the progesterone levels of the pill since it was first introduced in 1960 in order to lower side effects like weight gain and acne. Those tweaks could be the reason why the risk of blood clots went up, considering that the scientists adjusted for factors like cancer, varicose veins, smoking, and obesity on the risk of blood clots, and the link between newer contraceptives and an increased risk of blood clots remained high, Time reports .
 
 
Vox Media has acquired Revere Digital, the parent company of the tech website Re/code.
 

