1h
PARIS --  Rafael Nadal has asked the ATP that chair umpire Carlos Bernardes not be assigned to his matches for the time being because of a dispute between the two at a tournament in February.
Play1:18
2m
Rafael Nadal has asked the ATP that chair umpire Carlos Bernardes not be assigned to his matches for the time being because of a dispute between the two at a tournament in February.
Play2:13
14hGreg Garber
We're only one round into the French Open, but Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal are that much closer to a blockbuster battle with all kinds of legacy implications.
Play0:59
17h
No. 6 Eugenie Bouchard became the highest-seeded player to exit the French Open so far as she fell to 44th-ranked Kristina Mladenovic in the first round.
Play0:56
18h
Returning to the French Open a year after he lost in the final to Rafael Nadal, top-ranked Novak Djokovic posted a convincing 6-2, 7-5, 6-2 victory over Jarkko Nieminen.
Play0:59
Jerzy Janowicz aggressively grabbed opponent Maxime Hamou's hand when they met at the net after the Pole's 6-7 (4), 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 win at the French Open.
Clive Mason/Getty Images
1dESPN Staff
British No.1 insists country should be doing better after he is joined in French Open second round by Heather Watson and Kyle Edmund.
Play0:45
2d
Fourth seed eases into second round with a 6-0 7-5 6-3 win over Japanese qualifier Yoshihito Nishioka.
Rafael Nadal requests chair umpire Carlos Bernardes not work his matches
1h - Tennis
0 Shares
Stars talk Rafa's return
Roger Federer, Andy Murray, Maria Sharapova and Serena Williams talk about the significance of Rafael Nadal's nine French Open titles and present their takes on his recent struggles with his favorite surface.
Associated Press
0 Shares
PARIS -- Rafael Nadal has asked the ATP that chair umpire Carlos Bernardes not be assigned to his matches for the time being because of a dispute between the two at a tournament in February.
Rafael Nadal said he respects chair umpire Carlos Bernardes, but it is "better for both of us if we are not (on a) court at the same time for a while." 
Ian Kington/AFP/Getty Images
After his first-round victory at the French Open on Tuesday, Nadal said he respects Bernardes, but it is "better for both of us if we are not (on a) court at the same time for a while."
Nadal said he felt Bernardes was "not enough respectful" during a match in Rio de Janeiro, when Nadal put his shorts on improperly and asked if he could go to the locker room to change. Nadal said Bernardes told him he would receive a time warning.
"For me, that's not fair," Nadal said.
At Roland Garros, the French tennis federation handles chair umpire assignments. A federation spokesperson said there was no request by Nadal to avoid Bernardes during the French Open, but added that it's common knowledge the two have a tense relationship so it makes sense not to put them on the same court.
ATP spokesman Simon Higson said the tour wouldn't comment on any specific decisions related to how it picks chair umpires for matches. Speaking generally about a player asking for a certain umpire to be kept away from his matches, Higson wrote in an email: "Requests such as this are not uncommon, either from the player or the umpire."
Asked Tuesday whether he had ever made such a request, Novak Djokovic said he hadn't -- nor did he think it a regular occurrence.
"There are some chair umpires in some matches that I remember that I wasn't very happy with how they did their job, but I never thought of requesting a chair umpire not to ever -- or whatever, for a certain time -- be a chair umpire in my matches," Djokovic said. "I don't think that's fair. I don't think that's fair to them. You know, they do their job as best as they can. Of course, sometimes they do it better or worse."
0 Shares
ABOUT COOKIES
We use cookies to offer an improved online experience. By clicking "OK" without changing your settings you are giving your consent to receive cookies. Read our Cookies Policy for more details.

