Haberkip The leader of the cost-free planet met Thursday night with many prime leaders of the Mormon globe.Shortly right after President Barack Obama landed at Hill Air Force Base, he rode by motorcade to Salt Lake City where he had a private meeting at the Sheraton...
Obama meets with Mormon church leaders, Gov. Herbert for the duration of Utah trip
The leader of the cost-free planet met Thursday night with many prime leaders of the Mormon globe.Shortly right after President Barack Obama landed at Hill Air Force Base, he rode by motorcade to Salt Lake City where he had a private meeting at the Sheraton...
The leader of the cost-free planet met Thursday night with many prime leaders of the Mormon globe.
Shortly right after President Barack Obama landed at Hill Air Force Base, he rode by motorcade to Salt Lake City where he had a private meeting at the Sheraton Hotel with Presidents Henry B. Eyring and Dieter F. Uchtdorf of the Initially Presidency and apostles L. Tom Perry and D. Todd Christofferson.
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz stated, "The President is pleased to meet with best LDS leaders as so quite a few presidents prior to him have carried out."
Schultz stated they discussed the church's lengthy record of service, which includes its perform on disaster relief and other humanitarian difficulties, and the want to repair the broken immigration technique.
He added they discussed the will need to forge additional popular ground across variations and to market service to neighbors, both in the United States and around the world.
LDS Church spokesman Eric Hawkins mentioned LDS President Thomas S. Monson, age 87, skipped a meeting with Obama to preserve his strength for the church's Basic Conference this weekend.
"President Monson remembers fondly his go to to the White Home to present President Obama with his individual family members history in 2009. Simply because of the need to preserve his strength for this weekend's Basic Conference, it was felt that  the logistics of meeting away from Church offices, with the walking and the waiting periods connected with a presidential stop by, would regrettably not be conducive to President Monson's participation," he stated.
Obama also met with Gov. Gary Herbert, numerous neighborhood Democratic leaders and heads of neighborhood federal agencies. On Friday, he is scheduled to speak at Hill Air Force Base about clean energy. That event, nevertheless, is closed to the public.
Air Force One particular touched down at Hill Air Force Base at eight:10 p.m. — six years, two months and 13 days following Obama first took office. Utah had been a single of only two states that Obama had not yet visited as president. Now only South Dakota remains.
He was greeted there by officials including Gov. Herbert, Lt. Gov. Spencer Cox, Sen. Orrin Hatch and Mike Lee, Salt Lake City Mayor Ralph Becker and Salt Lake County Mayor Ben McAdams.
Just after greeting dignitaries, the president headed to the rope line where excited military fans snapped pictures and reached for a presidential handshake.
A teenage boy shouted, "We really like you Obama" as the president approached the crowd. Everyone was shooting selfies, including a young girl on her father's shoulders.
Obama's arrival was about two and a half hours later than initially scheduled, mainly because huge international events delayed the president's trip.
He spent added time in Washington to announce a framework agreement to limit Iran's nuclear program to block it from creating atomic weapons. Then he headed for Louisville, Ky., where he gave a speech on the economy.
Herbert rode with the president in the motorcade and talked to him for about a half hour, said Marty Carpenter, the governor's spokesman.
They discussed Medicaid expansion and Herbert's need for the federal government to cap the state's costs. They also discussed the public-lands initiative led by Rep. Rob Bishop, which is in search of to define land for federal protections and parcels that could be employed for oil and gas improvement.
"What would be useful is if the administration would get behind that," mentioned Carpenter. Utah officials worry if that initiative fails, the president may perhaps name a new national monument in the state.
The third item Herbert would like to talk about with Obama is payments to rural counties exactly where the land is nearly exclusively federally owned.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

