News Ticker
Posted on May 26, 2015 by Laurel Kornfeld
6
SHARES
Sign up to receive our weekly newsletter of the most popular space stories:
After two years of intense reviews by the U.S. Air Force, SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket was granted approval to launch military and spy satellites for the US government.
The decision ends a six-year monopoly on military launches by Lockheed Martin and Boeing, which operate military launches under a joint venture known as United Launch Alliance.
SpaceX, founded by entrepreneur Elon Musk, already has contracts with NASA to transport supplies and eventually crews to the International Space Station (ISS).
Military launches include satellites that enable communication between troops on battlefields.
They constitute the majority of all satellite launches, including commercial and civilian, with a market estimated at $70 billion between now and 2030.
The military currently uses the Atlas V rocket for its launches but will be unable to do so starting in 2019 for any launches related to national security, when a Congressional ban on the system goes into effect.
The ban was instituted because the Atlas V engine uses Russian RD-180 engines.
That opens the door to SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket as an alternative military launch system.
SpaceX says its Falcon 9 launches will cost the government $100 million each as opposed to United Launch Alliance’s cost of $160 million or more for the Atlas V.
Musk welcomed the Air Force decision as “an important step toward bringing competition to national security space launch.”
The opportunity to compete for military launches will come as early as next month, when the Air Force plans to open bidding for the launch of Lockheed-built GPS III satellites.
According to Air Force secretary Deborah James, “SpaceX’s emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade.
 
Author
Laurel Kornfeld is a freelance writer and amateur astronomer from Highland Park, NJ, who enjoys writing about astronomy and planetary science. She studied journalism at Douglass College, Rutgers University, and earned a Graduate Certificate of Science in astronomy from Swinburne University’s Astronomy Online program.
Latest posts by Laurel Kornfeld ( see all )
Laurel Kornfeld is a freelance writer and amateur astronomer from Highland Park, NJ, who enjoys writing about astronomy and planetary science. She studied journalism at Douglass College, Rutgers University, and earned a Graduate Certificate of Science in astronomy from Swinburne University’s Astronomy Online program.
Sign Up for Space News
Sign up to receive our weekly newsletter of the most popular space stories:
More Information
Do you enjoy our interesting articles about space?
Like our Facebook fan-page for occasional updates on your news feed!

