Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
6 things to know about NRA convention
The National Rifle Association will hold its annual convention April 10-12 in Nashville. Here's a breakdown of what you need to know.
Post to Facebook
6 things to know about NRA convention The National Rifle Association will hold its annual convention April 10-12 in Nashville. Here's a breakdown of what you need to know. Check out this story on Tennessean.com: http://tnne.ws/1C73HDC
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Karen Grigsby , kgrigsby@tennessean.com 2:18 p.m. CDT April 5, 2015
NRA Convention will be in Nashville April 10-12.
(Photo: Johnny Hanson / AP)
1. 70,000 people expected
Planners for the NRA expect 70,000 people to converge on the Music City Center for the three-day convention. In 2013, more than 86,000 people attended the NRA convention in Houston. The NRA has 5 million due-paying members, and the convention surrounds an annual required meeting of the members. The next NRA conventions will be held in Louisville, Ky.; Atlanta and Dallas.
Buy Photo
 (Photo: John Partipilo / The Tennessean)
2. How does that compare?
80,000 music fans a day are expected for the four-day CMA Music Festival downtown in June. Another 80,000 will converge on Manchester, Tenn., for the Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival, also in June.
Guns
3. Guns, guns and more guns
The NRA convention will be the host of concerts, meetings, forums, auctions, breakfasts, children's activities and, of course, "16 acres of guns," according to an ad for the event. Over 400 exhibitors are competing for space within the 350,000-square-foot Music City Center, and the excess of conventioneers, displaying everything from antique guns and high-tech scopes to "just about anything a person could want in camouflage," is expected to flow outside the center.
Sarah Palin
4. Speakers
A long list of political heavyweights, including several GOP presidential hopefuls, will speak at the NRA-ILA Leadership Forum. Expected are Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, Donald Trump and more.
Buy Photo
Alan Jackson
5. Entertainment
Not all the big names rolling out for the convention are associated with politics. Hank Williams Jr. and Colt Ford will perform a free NRA Country Jam V concert on Broadway on Friday. On Saturday, the NRA will present Alan Jackson's 'Keepin' It Country" Tour, with comedian Jeff Foxworthy, at Bridgestone Arena. Jonathan Falwell, a pastor and son of Jerry Falwell, will speak at the Sunday morning prayer breakfast. Also on Sunday, rock star Ted Nugent is scheduled to speak "about what you can do to keep his country free" and will maybe sing at the Music City Center.
File image from a gun show.
 (Photo: Justin Sullivan / Getty Images)
6. Security
A multilevel security plan went into works not long after Nashville was chosen as the convention destination. All guns on the convention floor will be nonoperational, with the firing pins removed, and any guns purchased during the NRA convention will have to be picked up at a Federal Firearms License dealer, near where the purchaser lives, and will require a legal identification.
6 Things to Know About the NRA convention
The National Rifle Association will hold its annual convention April 10-12 in Nashville. Here's a breakdown of what you need to know.
Sponsored by
Johnny Hanson / AP
70,000 people expected
Planners for the NRA expect 70,000 people to converge on the Music City Center for the three-day convention. In 2013, over 86,000 people attended the NRA convention in Houston. The NRA has 5 million due-paying members, and the convention surrounds an annual required meeting of the members. The next NRA conventions will be held in Louisville, Ky.; Atlanta; and Dallas.
John Partipilo / The Tennessean
How does that compare?
80,000 music fans a day are expected for the four-day CMA Music Festival downtown in June. Another 80,000 will converge on Manchester, Tenn., for the Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival, also in June.
Thinkstock
Guns, guns and more guns
The NRA convention will be the host of concerts, meetings, forums, auctions, breakfasts, children's activities and, of course, "16 acres of guns," according to an ad for the event. Over 400 exhibitors are competing for space within the 350,000-square-foot Music City Center, and the excess of conventioneers, displaying everything from antique guns and high-tech scopes to "just about anything a person could want in camouflage," is expected to flow outside the center.
Sarah Palin (Photo by Carolyn Kaster / AP)
Speakers
A long list of political heavyweights, including several GOP presidential hopefuls, will speak at the NRA-ILA Leadership Forum. Expected are Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, Donald Trump and more.
Alan Jackson (Photo by Jae S. Lee / The Tennessean)
Entertainment
Not all the big names rolling out for the convention are associated with politics. Hank Williams Jr. and Colt Ford will perform a free NRA Country Jam V concert on Broadway on Friday. On Saturday, the NRA will present Alan Jackson's 'Keepin' It Country" Tour, with comedian Jeff Foxworthy, at Bridgestone Arena. Jonathan Falwell, a pastor and son of Jerry Falwell, will speak at the Sunday morning prayer breakfast. Also on Sunday, rock star Ted Nugent is scheduled to speak "about what you can do to keep his country free" and will maybe sing at the Music City Center.
Justin Sullivan / Getty Images
Security
A multilevel security plan went into works not long after Nashville was chosen as the convention destination. All guns on the convention floor will be nonoperational, with the firing pins removed, and any guns purchased during the NRA convention will have to be picked up at a Federal Firearms License dealer, near where the purchaser lives, and will require a legal identification.
Karen Grigsby / The Tennessean

