Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Rand Paul sets out to prove he's not his father
Rand Paul is not a libertarian or a Republican in his father's mold.
Post to Facebook
Rand Paul sets out to prove he's not his father Rand Paul is not a libertarian or a Republican in his father's mold. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1CcSO32
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
2
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Rand Paul sets out to prove he's not his father
Catalina Camia , USA TODAY 2:51 p.m. EDT April 6, 2015
Rand Paul, left, is set to officially jump into the 2016 presidential race Tuesday.
(Photo: Ed Reinke, AP)
WASHINGTON — Rand Paul is not a libertarian or a Republican in his father's mold, which could help the Kentucky senator as he kicks off his presidential campaign.
Paul is set to officially jump into the 2016 presidential race Tuesday during a rally at a Louisville hotel scheduled for noon ET. Then he's off to Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina — the four states that go first in the presidential nominating process.
Since he rode a Tea Party wave in 2010 to win his Senate race, the younger Paul has been compared to his dad, Ron. Like Jeb Bush, the likely presidential candidate most identified with a political dynasty, Paul has to traverse two worlds in the 2016 race.
In one, Rand Paul must engage the Ron Paul supporters who were the backbone of his father's 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns. In the other, the senator says he would like to appeal to Republicans beyond the libertarian-minded conservatives who want less spending, low taxes and the government out of their lives. He says he hopes to make young people and minorities feel more welcome in the GOP.
"I think I need to present my message, and it needs to be my message," Rand Paul told The New York Times in February.
Jesse Benton, a former aide to both Pauls, echoed a theme sounded by Jeb Bush when addressing his family's legacy.
"Rand just wants to be his own man and be seen as his own man," said Benton, who is working for a political committee supporting the senator. "That's all anybody ever asks. Evaluate me and judge me on what I say I am and who I am."
Ron Paul, who retired from Congress after the 2012 elections, was not viewed as presidential timber by mainstream Republicans. He was quirky and known as Dr. No for voting against every House bill that didn't, in his view, stick to the Constitution.
In the 2012 primary debates, the elder Paul stood out with his stance against U.S. intervention in global crises, a push to end the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and call to close all U.S. military bases around the world.
Ron Paul participates in a GOP presidential debate in Tampa on Jan. 23, 2012.
 (Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images)
As someone close to both Pauls, Benton has a unique vantage point on their relationship.
He ran the senator's 2010 campaign and managed Ron Paul's 2012 presidential bid. Benton  resigned as Senate GOP leader Mitch McConnell's campaign manager in 2014 when his name came up in an endorsement-for-pay scheme tied to the 2012 Iowa caucuses. He denied any wrongdoing.
"What Rand learned from Ron's campaigns is pragmatic and germane, rather than grand and strategic," said Benton, who is married to Ron Paul's granddaughter. "Ron was never into the political strategy."
One of those lessons: Being a "conservative realist" on foreign policy who believes in a strong national defense and intervening overseas if there is a clear American interest, Benton said.
But even when he approves of military intervention it is not the kind of open-ended endorsement that more hawkish members of his party often support.
For example, Rand Paul has called for a declaration of war against the Islamic State. He introduced a joint resolution in December that would put limits on the duration of fighting, geography of the battle and use of ground troops. Paul said in a statement on the use of force that "this war is illegal until Congress acts pursuant to the Constitution and authorizes it."
While he concedes he would eventually like to eliminate all foreign aid, Paul has instead tied funding to actions. He has tried to cut off U.S. money to countries such as Pakistan, Egypt and Libya for discriminating against Christians and persecuting women.
Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., says "I think I need to present my message, and it needs to be my message."
 (Photo: Senate Television via AP)
Richard Grenell, a former spokesman to four U.S. ambassadors to the United Nations, said Paul's strategy on foreign aid is a sign of his growth.  "What started out to be a troubling foreign policy has its moments of brilliance and yet still has some fundamental problems when it comes to reaching out to conservatives," he said.
Steve Deace, a syndicated radio host in Iowa who is influential with conservatives, said he doesn't believe Rand Paul's foreign policy views are a problem outside of Washington. But whether the senator is completely out of his father's shadow has yet to be determined, Deace said.
"His father has said some things and believes some things that are not widely accepted with the Republican base," Deace said. "You have to own all that package. You can't say I've got the parts of Ron Paul that you like and that I don't have to answer for the parts you don't like."
Follow @ccamia on Twitter
Rand Paul speaks to a group of supporters at Dolly McNutt Plaza on April 10, 2010, during a Senate campaign stop in Paducah, Ky. 
(Photo: Stephen Lance Dennee, The Paducah Sun via AP)
(Photo: Sam Upshaw Jr., The Courier-Journal)
(Photo: Ed Reinke, AP)
(Photo: Mark Wilson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Jack Gruber, USA TODAY)
(Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images)
(Photo: Darren McCollester, Getty Images)
(Photo: Al Behrman, AP)
(Photo: Charlie Neibergall, AP)
(Photo: Eric Francis, Getty Images)
(Photo: Jim Cole, AP)
(Photo: Manuel Balce Ceneta, AP)
(Photo: H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY)
(Photo: Mandel Ngan, AFP/Getty Images)
(Photo: Darren McCollester, Getty Images)
Replay
Autoplay
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1CcSO32

