Haberkip There's absolutely nothing rather like wandering about the spot where a historic occasion occurred to help the imagination grasp how it all unfolded. Which is why I was standing on a single side of the wraparound balcony in Washington, D.C.'s Ford's Theatre...
Walk in Abraham Lincoln&aposs footsteps 150 years later at preserved websites
There's absolutely nothing rather like wandering about the spot where a historic occasion occurred to help the imagination grasp how it all unfolded. Which is why I was standing on a single side of the wraparound balcony in Washington, D.C.'s Ford's Theatre...
There's absolutely nothing rather like wandering about the spot where a historic occasion occurred to help the imagination grasp how it all unfolded. Which is why I was standing on a single side of the wraparound balcony in Washington, D.C.'s Ford's Theatre final year, gazing across to the presidential box exactly where John Wilkes Booth shot Abraham Lincoln before leaping to the stage and freedom.
No wonder Booth broke his leg, I thought. That is very a drop.
It wasn't exactly revelatory, but getting in a position to stroll about the theater where that tragic shooting occurred 150 years ago, on April 14, 1865, put these few moments on a human scale and helped make the abstract concrete. As did walking across the street to the Petersen Home, exactly where the bleeding and unconscious Lincoln was carried shortly following he was shot, and exactly where he died the subsequent morning.
GUIDE: Your travel guide to commemorating Abraham Lincoln's monumental life
Lincoln buffs have a variety of preserved web pages exactly where they can touch the identical locations that Lincoln did, from his roots in Kentucky to Washington to the Illinois cemetery that holds his body. That so a lot of of these internet sites have been preserved speaks to Lincoln's enduring appeal as not only the president who in the end kept the states united, but as the very first of the four U.S. presidents to be assassinated (James Garfield, William McKinley and John F. Kennedy would stick to).
But the hagiography surrounding &quotHonest Abe" also appeals to our sense of what we perceive the nation to be. The overview we all obtain as college little ones renders him heroic — the Terrific Emancipator who freed the slaves.
A deeper reading of those tumultuous, bloody days reveals a extra nuanced Lincoln, a man open to interpretation. To some, he was a racist who nonetheless believed in the Constitution's guarantee of rights for all. To other individuals, he was a martyr for freedom and for the country.
Though Northerners credit Lincoln with making the riven nation complete, Southern revisionists blame him for the &quotWar of Northern Aggression" and the destruction of the South (by no means mind that the Confederacy fired the first shots as the states dropped out of the union in the wake of Lincoln's 1860 election). Booth himself accused Lincoln of tyranny.
And on it goes, every single version supported by a tiny library of research and argument.
Then there's the publishing legacy. It's tough to get an precise count, but some estimates tally more than 16,000 books about Lincoln, additional than any other individual except Jesus Christ. The Library of Congress' on the web catalog lists additional than 6,900 books with Lincoln as the topic, compared with more than two,600 for Kennedy.
The scope of the output makes for an impressive stack. A 34-foot-tall spiral of 6,800 Lincoln books rises inside a staircase at the Ford's Theatre Center for Education and Leadership (an intimidating sight for an individual who was then writing about the guy who killed the guy who killed Lincoln was there area for one more book?).
Of course, there was extra to Lincoln's life than the presidential years, which Lincoln enthusiasts can follow by way of their own travels. The trail starts at the Abraham Lincoln Birthplace, web page of the legendary log cabin in Hodgenville, Ky. (In an unfortunate bit of timing, part of the park is closed for a construction project.) When Lincoln was 7, the family relocated to what is now Lincoln City, Ind., near the Ohio River, where you will uncover the Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial.
Lincoln's legal and political profession took root in Illinois, and Springfield is a go-to spot with the Lincoln Property National Historic Web site, the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library & Museum and the Lincoln Tomb, from which grave robbers tried to steal the body in 1876, leading cemetery caretakers to temporarily hide it elsewhere on the grounds.
But the Washington location reigns supreme for these pursuing Lincoln history. There's the white Gothic revival Lincoln Cottage at the Soldiers' Property, exactly where Lincoln lived for some of the war years, and the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church, where the Lincoln family attended solutions.
Aficionados can sign up for tours that stick to the path Booth and co-conspirator David Herold took as they fled Washington for what they hoped would be sanctuary in the Deep South. They created it as far as a tobacco barn close to Port Royal, Va., exactly where Herold was captured and Booth shot by Sgt. Boston Corbett, a member of the 16th New York Cavalry. Amongst the tour stops is the Maryland tavern exactly where Booth and Herold picked up some cached supplies, a location now preserved as the Surratt House Museum.
But the best-identified marker anchors 1 finish of the National Mall — the Lincoln Memorial. If visiting Ford's Theatre puts the assassination on a human scale, then the memorial, with its giant white marble statue of Lincoln in an armchair, does the opposite, reflecting the outsized part Lincoln plays in U.S. history.
And its permanence reinforces something Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton said shortly after Lincoln breathed his last: &quotNow he belongs to the ages."
Scott Martelle, a Times editorial writer, is the author of &quotThe Madman and the Assassin: The Strange Life of Boston Corbett, the Man Who Killed John Wilkes Booth."
A lot more FOR LINCOLN HISTORY BUFFS:
Lincoln's slaying recalled at Ford's Theatre
 
Illinois will relive Lincoln's assassination and funeral
Re-creation of Lincoln rail trip to Springfield, Ill., is scrapped
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
Ad Soyad:
 
UYARI: Küfür, hakaret, rencide edici cümleler veya imalar, inançlara saldırı içeren, imla kuralları ile yazılmamış, Türkçe karakter kullanılmayan ve tamamı büyük harflerle yazılmış yorumlar onaylanmamaktadır. Ayrıca suç teşkil edecek hakaret içerikli yorumlar hakkında muhatapları tarafından dava açılabilmektedir.
Breaking News Headlines
Related Breaking News

