Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Menendez had worst week in D.C. for second time in four months, report says
WASHINGTON — The Washington Post singled out Sen. Robert Menendez as having the worst week in Washington for the second time in four months.
Menendez (D-N.J.), was cited because he "joined a club no politician wants to be in" when he became just the 12th sitting senator to be indicted , the Post said. In December, the paper gave Menendez the dubious designation after citing his comments that he had not been told in advance of President Obama's diplomatic opening to Cuba. Menendez, the son of Cuban immigrants, said Obama's action "stinks."
New Jersey's senior senator was charged Wednesday in a 14-count indictment intervening on behalf of a wealthy friend and campaign donor, Dr. Salomon Melgen, in exchange for luxurious gifts and vacations. The senator temporarily stepped down as ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where he was a leading voice for increased sanctions to pressure Iran into accepting curbs on its nuclear program.
"I'm outraged that prosecutors at the Justice Department were tricked into starting this investigation three years ago with false allegations by those who have a political motive to silence me," Menendez said at a Newark press conference after the indictment was announced. "But I will not be silenced."
He pleaded not guilty in U.S. District Court in Newark on Thursday.
"In court, Menendez is innocent until proven guilty," the Post said. "But in politics, there is no presumption of innocence, and the news -- which broke on April Fools' Day -- is nothing short of a total disaster for him.''
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for your subscription!
To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Political Viewpoints
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

