NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
WASHINGTON — A federal judge in Texas on Tuesday angrily denied the federal government’s request to allow President Obama ’s immigration executive actions to proceed, even as an appeals court signaled that it might disagree with the judge when it takes the issue up next week.
Judge Andrew S. Hanen, of Federal District Court for the Southern District of Texas, in Brownsville, refused late Tuesday night to lift the injunction he had placed in February on the president’s immigration program, saying that to do so would cause irreparable harm.
The judge concluded that he “remained convinced” that the president exceeded his authority by seeking to allow millions of undocumented immigrants to stay in the country legally and obtain work permits. He said the actions violated administrative procedures for creating new programs and should not be allowed to go forward while courts consider their legality.
“Whether by ignorance, omission, purposeful misdirection, or because they were misled by their clients, the attorneys for the government misrepresented the facts,” Judge Hanen wrote in his ruling.
“Fabrications, misstatements, half-truths, artful omissions and the failure to correct misstatements may be acceptable, albeit lamentable, in other aspects of life,” he wrote. “But in the courtroom, when an attorney knows that both the court and the other side are relying on complete frankness, such conduct is unacceptable.”
Emily Pierce, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department said in a statement, “We emphatically disagree with the district court’s order regarding the government’s statements.” The government will continue to appeal the injunction, the statement added.
The judge’s ruling in the case comes a day after the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled in an earlier, but related case that could signal how that court will approach Judge Hanen’s injunction. The government has asked the appeals court to reverse Judge Hanen and allow the immigration programs to proceed immediately.
On Tuesday, the appeals court ruled that a challenge to Mr. Obama’s 2012 executive actions could not move forward because the plaintiffs did not have legal standing to challenge the government’s activities.
In the 2012 case, immigration agents and state officials had challenged the program that allowed so-called Dreamers to stay in the country legally despite having been brought to the country as children. The agents argued that the law prevented them from detaining people who had entered the country illegally. The states argued that allowing the undocumented immigrants to remain in the country imposed additional costs on state budgets.
The appeals court rejected those challenges to the 2012 program. In the appeals court ruling on Tuesday, the judges said that neither the agents nor the states were harmed by the president’s 2012 actions. As a result, they said the plaintiffs did not have the right to challenge them.
“Neither the agents nor the state of Mississippi has demonstrated the concrete and particularized injury required to give them standing to maintain this suit,” the appeals court said.
That could have implications for the newer legal struggle, since the executive orders on immigration that Mr. Obama announced in November are an expansion of the actions he took on behalf of the Dreamers three years ago.
Many of the arguments made by the plaintiffs in the more recent case echo those that the immigration agents and states made against the 2012 case.
The appeals court is scheduled to hear oral arguments about whether to rescind Judge Hanen’s injunction in a hearing on April 17. Its ruling could determine whether the president’s programs can move forward or will be suspended for months while the battle over their legal future continues.
Loading...

