article
60956
Barack Obama, first family attend boisterous Easter service at historic black church
Barack Obama, first family attend boisterous Easter service at historic black church
President Barack Obama attended a spirited Easter service at a historic black church today, in keeping with the first family’s tradition of visiting local Washington area congregations.
http://www.financialexpress.com/article/miscellaneous/barack-obama-first-family-attend-boisterous-easter-service-at-historic-black-church/60956/
Easter, Easter service, Easter images, easter day, Barack Obama, Barack Obama easter, Barack Obama church, Christians, Christians easter, black church, church, church on easter, world news
By: AFP |        Washington |  April 6, 2015 1:52 pm
President Barack Obama speaks at the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. (AP)
President Barack Obama attended a spirited Easter service at a historic black church today, in keeping with the first family’s tradition of visiting local Washington area congregations.
The president, his wife Michelle and their two teenaged daughters attended the Alfred Street Baptist Church in Alexandria, Virginia, its pews filled with congregants who could barely contain their excitement over the visit.
“How fitting that on the day we celebrate the rising of our Lord and Savior, we also welcome our sitting president,” Pastor Howard-John Wesley said to applause from enthusiastic worshippers, whom he urged to keep their cellphones in their pockets and purses.
Victoria Lee poses as she takes part in the Easter Parade along New York’s Fifth Avenue on Sunday, April 5, 2015. (AP)
“This is not selfie time,” he said to laughter. “Let the brother worship in the house of God.”
The congregation, including the president, rose to their feet during a rousing hymn sung by the choir, with Obama bobbing his head, clapping, and swaying to the accompaniment by a live band.
People take part in the Easter Parade and Bonnet Festival along 5th Avenue in New York City April 5, 2015. REUTERS
One congregant couldn’t refrain from posting a tweet.
“Y’all…I’m worshipping on Easter Sunday with the First Family. I…LOVE…my…church. The Resurrection is indeed real,” read the message, retweeted by the Alfred Baptist Church from its own Twitter account.
Erica Barrett, second from left, and her children Adrian Barrett, left, Maya Barrett, second from right, and Jason Barrett pose for photographs as they take part in the Easter Parade along New York’s Fifth Avenue on Sunday, April 5, 2015. (AP)
The president and his family, rather than selecting one church to frequent as some other presidents have, have attended various Washington area churches from time to time.
 
Do you like this story
More from
Today ( 06 Apr )This Week ( 05 Apr - 11 Apr )
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bharat Forge, Mahindra CIE, Motherson Sumi and Wabco India are likely to weather this storm
State-run Air India plans to reward those pilots who make onboard announcements in Hindi, almost 10 months after the Central government...
2015-04-06 13:30:47
Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan asked the Narendra Modi government to impose a ban on the export of beef, saying it will help stop slaughtering of cows.
Unilazer Ventures, a sports marketing firm founded by Ronnie Screwvala, is riding on a passion to place motor racing...

