NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
Inside
Photo
Jesus G. Garcia, in center of group, walked through Englewood on the South Side of Chicago last month. From the start of his campaign, Mr. Garcia spoke of building a multicultural coalition in the spirit of Harold Washington, the city’s first black mayor. Credit Alyssa Schukar for The New York Times
CHICAGO —  Jesus G. Garcia, candidate for mayor, strode down the sidewalk on Monday evening, trailed by a giddy pack of supporters, volunteers and passers-by. They snapped pictures and chanted his nickname: “Chu-y! Chu-y!”
One man did not join in. An African-American who wore a knit Blackhawks hat, he glared at Mr. Garcia from the curb.
“I’m voting,” he said, when asked if he would take part in Tuesday’s election. “But I ain’t voting for no Chuy. I ain’t voting for a Mexican.”
Pressed to explain, he said he was tired of competing with Latinos for jobs. Then he walked away.
The scene exposed a fault line in Mr. Garcia’s campaign to unseat Mayor Rahm Emanuel in Tuesday’s runoff election. Mr. Garcia’s strategy was to build a coalition of white liberals, blacks and Latinos — angered by Mr. Emanuel’s closing of dozens of schools and supportive of a plan to shift development from its wealthy downtown to poorer neighborhoods.
But a Chicago Tribune poll released Tuesday showed Mr. Emanuel with a commanding lead. He not only has large margins among white voters, but a nearly two-to-one margin among black voters, 53 percent to 28 percent. Mr. Garcia has not been able to increase his share of the black vote.
Photo
Mayor Rahm Emanuel greeted residents after voting early in Chicago on Thursday. Mr. Emanuel had the support of most black voters when he was first elected in 2011, in part because of an endorsement from President Obama. Credit Joshua Lott for The New York Times
Even some of his black supporters admit he is running into ethnic rivalries and suspicions.
“I almost got sick this morning listening to some guy on the radio saying this kind of thing — ‘You’ve got to watch out for those Latinos, they’re going to set the blacks back, they’ve boxed us out,’ ” Representative Danny K. Davis, who represents parts of Chicago, said in an interview on Thursday. “When I hear African-Americans try to run the race game on Chuy Garcia, it just infuriates me.”
Mr. Davis, who is African-American, and has endorsed Mr. Garcia, said he has heard worries among some black voters that their concerns about widespread unemployment, the strained public school system and deteriorating neighborhoods will not be heard.
“There is a feeling that somehow or another, this is competition, and that competition will take something away from the African-American community and give it to the Latino community,” Mr. Davis said. “Which is a faulty assumption, but that’s the way race division works.”
Chicago has long been a place of Balkanized ethnic politics. The city’s Latino population has exploded in the last few decades and some have ascended to political power. In 1980, 14 percent of Chicago’s population was Hispanic; by 2010, it had grown to close to 30 percent. But that expansion may have led to more tensions.
“Unfortunately, African-American communities in Chicago are faced with extraordinarily high unemployment rates — there’s just an ongoing, really dire economic crisis,” said Martha Biondi, chair of the African-American Studies Department at Northwestern University. “And instead of blaming employers or the leaders of the major parties, many people who are suffering will sometimes blame immigrants or working class rivals. They will say, ‘There’s this other group that’s getting the jobs.’ ”
Mr. Garcia, 58, who has won election to the City Council, the state Senate and the county board of commissioners, has been one of the most prominent Latinos in elected office here, beginning in the 1980s. If elected, he would be the city’s first Latino mayor.
From the start of his campaign, he spoke of building a multicultural coalition in the spirit of Harold Washington , the city’s first black mayor, on whose campaign Mr. Garcia worked.
He has reached out to black leaders, collecting endorsements, campaign donations and promises of votes. And he has focused his campaign on concerns Chicagoans share, including improving public education, a higher minimum wage, reducing gun violence and modernizing mass transit.
But across this sprawling city, blacks and Latinos tend to live in different neighborhoods and attend different churches.
“Chicago is so segregated — black people live in their neighborhoods and Hispanic people live in their neighborhoods. They don’t have any interaction,” said Mike Butler, who is African-American and in his 60s, as he attended a campaign event for Mr. Garcia this week. “I’ve heard people say, ‘If we let him in, he’s going to be hiring all his people,’ but I tell them, don’t be so backward.”
Robert Warren, an African-American voter who lives in Uptown on the north side of Chicago, said he believed Mr. Garcia could represent the interests of Latinos and blacks. “Once upon a time, this city was called the most racially divided city in the nation,” he said. “That is still the case. It’s time for someone to bring us together.”
Asked during a debate this week what he would do to allay historical tensions between Latinos and blacks, Mr. Garcia spoke in generalities, saying that he would be a mayor “whose core values will be fairness and equity.”
“Chicago cannot move forward as a city unless everyone in the city, all communities including African-Americans and Latinos, get a fair share,” he said. “Chicago cannot prosper if some people are doing great and other people aren’t.”
Mr. Emanuel had the support of most black voters when he was first elected in 2011, in part because President Obama, a son of Chicago, offered a strong endorsement of his former chief of staff. Still, he appeared vulnerable with minorities after the runoff because he oversaw the closing of nearly 50 public schools deemed underperforming, underused or both. It was the largest closing of schools in memory, with many of them in black or Latino neighborhoods.
He has spent considerable time rallying African-American support since the Feb. 24 election — attending events at churches on the South Side, meeting with community leaders and, this week, mingling at an “African-American Women for Rahm” lunch downtown.
Latino and black politicians and leaders have not coalesced around a candidate. In the Emanuel camp are Luis V. Gutiérrez and Bobby L. Rush, both members of Congress from Illinois.
Mr. Garcia has won endorsements from Mr. Davis, the congressman; the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson; and Willie Wilson, an African-American businessman who was a candidate for mayor.
Mr. Wilson said he has encouraged Mr. Garcia to do more outreach to black voters, going to churches and emphasizing the issues on which they can find common ground.
“The support that Chuy is getting from the African-American community is due to the fact that a core of people are just fed up with Rahm because of the school closings and other things,” he said. “They want anybody but Rahm.”
Marilyn Katz, a political strategist in Chicago who worked on the Harold Washington campaign, said that in the early 1980s, Latinos and blacks banded together and helped elect Mr. Washington.
“When we did Harold’s campaign in 1983, we had a coalition between blacks, Hispanics and progressive whites,” she said. “Not that things were all peachy then. There was very little Hispanic and black representation on the City Council. Fast forward to today, and the council is now pretty much evenly divided between the groups. You see greater power for each group, but less unity.”
“Race factors into it,” she added, “but I would argue that the more local you are in politics, the more personality, leadership and person matter.”
Loading...

