Cubs third baseman Kris Bryant rocks a home run to left field versus the Nationals.
Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images
Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Play1:20
3hBrian Windhorst
After review, the NBA elected not to suspend Houston Rockets center Dwight Howard for Game 5 of the Western Conference finals, the league announced Tuesday.
Play2:06
Former New Orleans Saints receiver Joe Horn dislikes hugs between draft selections and NFL commissioner Roger Goodell, who he likens to "the devil."
Play2:37
1hTerry Blount
Seahawks coach Pete Carroll would not speak directly about the contract negotiations with quarterback Russell Wilson, but Carroll did say Tuesday he and Wilson have had good conversations.
Play3:03
Colin Kaepernick, who has nearly 755,000 Twitter followers and 1.3 million followers on Instagram, deleted and apologized Tuesday for a post that trivialized deadly floods in the Houston area.
Play3:26
Philadelphia Phillies general manager Ruben Amaro says that fans who don't understand the team's methodical approach to turning the franchise around "don't understand the game."
Play1:02
4hCalvin Watkins
Rockets coach Kevin McHale said Tuesday nearly the entire team arrived safely at their homes following Monday's Game 4 of the Western Conference finals after severe storms battered the area.
Scott Audette/NHLI via Getty Images
6hDavid Purdum
Two economists have shown that the point spread plays a significant role in viewing interest, at times producing 30 percent spikes in TV ratings on noncompetitive games.
Play0:56
3hGreg Garber
We're only one round into the French Open, but Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal are that much closer to a blockbuster battle with all kinds of legacy implications.
1 Related
7h
The start of the 2015 season is 100 days away. Here are 100 things we can't wait to see, starting with Jim Harbaugh's return to Michigan.
1 Related
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans like Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
Christian Petersen/Getty Images
Which golfer will win this week's AT&T Byron Nelson? Aussie Marc Leishman seems to be the trendy pick among our experts.
Play2:07
9hKevin Seifert
Chicago won't take a cap hit for cutting Ray McDonald, but it will bear some responsibility. A fine, albeit not a substantial one, is on the horizon.
Play1:00
5hMissy Isaacson
Athletes from across the United States are set to compete in this summer's Special Olympics World Games, and that dream became a reality for many because of Unified Sports.
Bruce Bennett/Getty Images
A look back at the week that was in photos.
May 26, 2015, 10:11 PM ET
Bryant ties Cubs up
Bryant ties Cubs up
Cubs third baseman Kris Bryant rocks a home run to left field versus the Nationals.
Sponsored Headlines

