By Jennifer Sinco Kelleher | AP May 26 at 10:15 PM
HONOLULU — A project to build a giant telescope near the summit of Mauna Kea has the right to move forward, but Hawaii has failed the mountain in many ways, Gov. David Ige said Tuesday.
Amid protests and arrests of opponents blocking construction workers from accessing the site, construction has been halted since last month on the $1.4 billion Thirty Meter Telescope. Ige said it’s up to the nonprofit telescope company to determine when construction will resume. “And we will support and enforce their right to do so,” he said.
Kealoha Pisciotta, a longtime Big Island critic of the Thirty Meter Telescope, said she’s disappointed in Ige’s comments, which she said lacked substance. “It created this illusion that we’re going to do something without really doing much,” she said, adding that his words will not prompt protesters to leave the mountain.
“He affirmed that they will move forward,” she said of telescope construction. “The deep sadness I feel is that means our people will be arrested.”
Telescope officials didn’t say when construction will resume.
“We appreciate that there are still people who are opposed to the project, and we will continue to respectfully listen and work with them to seek solutions,” Henry Yang, chair of the TMT International Observatory Board, said in a statement.
Ige also vowed that there will be major changes in stewardship of Mauna Kea, held sacred by Native Hawaiians. The University of Hawaii, which leases the land, must do a better job in its stewardship, he said, listing 10 actions he’s asking the university to take.
They include beginning to decommission as many as possible of the telescopes already on the mountain, with at least 25 percent of the 13 telescopes gone by the time Thirty Meter Telescope is ready for operation; legally commit that this is the last area on the mountain were a telescope will be considered; restart the environmental review process for the university’s lease extension; and significantly limit noncultural access to the mountain.
“We agree the university can and must do better and apologize for where our efforts have fallen short,” university President David Lassner said, reading a prepared statement to media.
The university will issue a more comprehensive statement this week describing what steps it plans to take in response to the governor’s list, Lassner said. What’s being requested is reasonable, he said.
___
Associated Press writer Audrey McAvoy contributed to this report.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!

