Religious freedom is nevertheless worth guarding
Gay rights groups and their allies had been outraged when Indiana enacted a &quotreligious freedom" law that let businesses refuse to take aspect in similar-sex weddings and other events the proprietors locate objectionable. Opponents of the new law had...
Gay rights groups and their allies had been outraged when Indiana enacted a &quotreligious freedom" law that let businesses refuse to take aspect in similar-sex weddings and other events the proprietors locate objectionable. Opponents of the new law had an unassailable goal: defending a smaller group of people from obtaining their freedom trampled by an unsympathetic majority.
Funny issue: That's precisely what religious freedom laws have been developed to do.
Government returns confiscated eagle feathers to Lipan Apache tribal leader
Government returns confiscated eagle feathers to Lipan Apache tribal leader. (YouTube)
Government returns confiscated eagle feathers to Lipan Apache tribal leader. (YouTube)
See a lot more videos
These laws have gotten a undesirable name from Indiana — where the legislature did not location a high priority on such liberty until gay marriage arrived. But they have an honorable pedigree and considerable worth. Their point is not to market mistreatment but to prevent it.
Think about some of the men and women and groups that have necessary relief from oppressive demands: a Muslim prison inmate who was forbidden from expanding a beard an Apache leader whose eagle feathers, required for sacred ceremonies, had been confiscated Jewish soldiers whose yarmulkes violated military dress codes.
In every single case, basic guidelines have been adjusted or waived for the reason that they inflicted a unique injury on certain religious groups — and simply because the religious needs could be accommodated without having noticeable harm.
&#108Related CommentaryWhere&aposs the tolerance when the tables are turned?See all related8
But in 1990, the U.S. Supreme Court turned a deaf ear to such issues. It rejected the totally free exercise claims of two Native Americans who lost their drug counseling jobs for making use of peyote, an illegal drug, in a religious sacrament.
Congress responded by passing the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. It had the enthusiastic help of such liberal stalwarts as U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and then-U.S. Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., as properly as the American Civil Liberties Union. State versions followed following the Supreme Court stated RFRA applied only to the federal government.
But the nature of these laws raises the clear question: Why must religious people get much more latitude than nonreligious ones?
1 explanation is our constitutional framework. The First Amendment treats religious practices as distinctive from other human activities. In matters of the spirit, the government is supposed to be neutral: It may possibly not restrict religious beliefs or practices, and it may perhaps not promote or subsidize them.
For a lengthy time, the Supreme Court took the free of charge workout of religion to mean that believers should from time to time be excused from requirements applied to everybody else. This fit the constitutional notion of neutrality: Just as the government should not reward citizens for embracing religion, it shouldn't penalize them, intentionally or otherwise.
cComments
@Old USMC A weak straw man argument. Pig is not on their menu. No 1 is asking the baker or the flower guy to bl-w the client, just sell him what you supply to everybody else. Hurry, you are missing Hannity.                     OakLawnBill                     at 6:19 PM April 11, 2015
Add a comment          See all comments                                           15
So the Amish have been permitted to preserve their children out of college after eighth grade. A Seventh-day Adventist was granted unemployment benefits soon after losing her job for refusing to perform on Saturday, her Sabbath. A Jehovah's Witness who quit his job rather than work in a factory creating military weapons was also entitled to unemployment insurance coverage.
Why need to the Seventh-day Adventists be spared from working on Saturday though Methodists and atheists have no option? One reason lies in our constitutional tradition, which gives higher priority to the demands of faith.
One more, although, is that religious obligations are unique from other demands. It's one thing to incur the disapproval of your husband, wife or youngsters by going to function on Saturday. It is a bit worse to incur the wrath of an all-powerful God.
To the nonreligious (like me), such fears may possibly look silly. To the believer, they involve the highest attainable stakes. &quotIt is no far more reasonable to expect critical believers not to act on their understanding of God's will than to anticipate gays and lesbians to remain celibate for life," says Douglas Laycock, a law professor at the University of Virginia.
In addition to, this policy extends beyond the devout. You never have to believe in God to be exempted from military service as a conscientious objector. You never will need religious factors for concerning abortion as murder to be absolutely free to refuse to help in 1. Some secular demands of conscience are just as compelling as faith-based ones.
Nor is the protection absolute or automatic. These with a religious objection to a law may perhaps ask to be exempted. But when the expense of accommodating that objection is too high — say, enabling racial discrimination or harming children — the objections will be overruled by the courts.
Religious liberty, it is fair to say, need to not be grounds for stigmatizing and ostracizing persons since of their sexual orientation. Gays and lesbians deserve protection from burdens triggered by the indifference or hostility of other individuals. But they are not the only ones.
Steve Chapman, a member of the Tribune Editorial Board, blogs at chicagotribune.com/chapman.
schapman@tribpub.com
Copyright © 2015, Chicago Tribune
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
12 April 2015 Sunday 04:29

