<h4>WSJAsia on Twitter</h4><a href="https://twitter.com/wsjasia" class="twitter-follow-button" data-show-count="true">Follow @wsjasia</a>
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.
http://www.wsj.com/articles/former-port-authority-chairman-david-samson-retires-from-law-firm-1428431368
Law Firm Drops Name of Former Port Authority Chairman David Samson
He is leaving Wolff & Samson, which became a lobbying powerhouse during the Chris Christie administration
ENLARGE
David Samson, former chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, at a board meeting in 2014. Photo: Andrew Burton/Getty Images
By
Both former New Jersey Attorney General David Samson and his name are departing from the law firm he co-founded, which grew into a lobbying powerhouse during the administration of his friend, Gov. Chris Christie .
Mr. Samson, 75 years old, is retiring from Wolff & Samson after 43 years, the firm said Tuesday, in a statement that also announced it would reorganize under new leadership and a new name: Chiesa Shahinian & Giantomasi PC.
The rebranding is a major shift for a firm that has been closely tied to Mr. Christie’s administration and has been drawn by association into the scandals that clouded Mr. Samson’s exit from the Port Authority last year.
The renaming also comes as federal prosecutors continue to investigate the actions of state and Port Authority officials, including Mr. Samson, in the probe triggered by the lane closure scandal at the George Washington Bridge.
Earlier
In a statement released by a spokeswoman, Mr. Samson said he was retiring from the law firm for “personal, professional and health reasons.”
“After my five decades practicing law, it was time for new leaders to transition the Firm for the future,” Mr. Samson said.
Mr. Samson has battled prostate cancer and other health issues. In a statement, Wolff & Samson said Mr. Samson’s retirement was “a bittersweet occasion for the firm-wide family.”
While reorganizing, Wolff & Samson has also been bulking up with new talent, including partners as plugged into New Jersey politics — and Mr. Christie’s administration — as Mr. Samson.
The restructured firm will be led by Armen Shahinian, one of its partners for 38 years, and Jeff Chiesa, a former colleague of Mr. Christie in the U.S. attorney’s office who the governor has previously named to both the New Jersey Attorney General’s office and a partial term in the U.S. Senate.
The firm has added 29 new lawyers, including six partners, over the last two years, the announcement said. But the firm has also lost members, including Lori Grifa, a former partner who had worked for Wolff & Samson before and after a stint in Mr. Christie’s administration. Ms. Grifa departed for another firm in January.
Business has been good since Mr. Christie won the governor’s office.
Wolff & Samson’s lobbying business greatly increased under the Christie administration, increasing from less than $50,000 in 2009 to more than $1 million in 2013, according to state records. The firm’s receipts dropped in 2014 to $640,000 from the 2013 high.
Mr. Chiesa is a close confidante of the governor, advising him on politics and taking several political trips with him outside New Jersey.
Mr. Chiesa didn’t immediately return a phone call and email seeking comment.
Mr. Samson once played a role similar to Chiesa’s, serving as a political mentor to Mr. Christie and chairman of his transition team at the beginning of his first term.
Mr. Christie subsequently named him chairman of the Port Authority, his highest nonexecutive appointment at the agency. There, Mr. Samson was a widely respected figure. He could also be a fierce defender of turf, both the Port Authority’s — as in its tussles with the City of New York over control at the World Trade Center site — and Mr. Christie’s.
Ultimately, Mr. Samson became a casualty of what investigators have suggested was political strong-arming gone too far: an apparent effort to punish a Democratic mayor on the far side of the George Washington Bridge for not endorsing Mr. Christie by using lane closures to inundate the borough of Fort Lee with traffic.
In public, Mr. Samson kept his distance from the key figures of the lane closure scandal as it built in the fall of 2013. But subsequent releases of internal communications show that he seethed at what he perceived as efforts by the authority’s New York-appointed executive director, Patrick Foye, to blow the whistle on the lane closures.
The lane closures drew the attention of federal prosecutors, who have since broadened their inquiries into the authority, according to people familiar with the matter, including potential mingling of Mr. Samson’s public duties as chairman with the private interests of Wolff & Samson.
Prosecutors are looking into whether Mr. Samson asked United Airlines for a special weekly flight to visit his vacation home in South Carolina while the company was negotiating with the Port Authority. The flight was ended after Mr. Samson left the position.
Prosecutors have interviewed people and asked questions that indicate they are looking for evidence of quid pro quo, according to a person familiar with the matter.
Mr. Samson hasn't been accused of a crime. Through his spokeswoman, he has defended his performance and suggested he would be cleared of any wrongdoing.
The outcome of those investigations remains unclear. People familiar with the matter have told the Journal that U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman’s team has recently re-interviewed potential witnesses in its investigation, a sign that a resolution of the probe could be coming soon.
More recently, attorneys representing subjects of the investigation have said that Mr. Fishman’s office has been quiet compared with the spate of activity several weeks ago.
-- Heather Haddon contributed to this article
Save Article
Management & Careers
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved

