NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Baseball | Mets 5, Phillies 4
Jacob DeGrom’s Strong Outing Is Botched by Bullpen, but Mets Recover
By ZACH SCHONBRUN
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Mets’ Curtis Granderson scoring in the third on a single by Lucas Duda. Credit Mike Stobe/Getty Images
Advertisement
When Jacob deGrom reached the dugout, he pounded his fist into his mitt twice, angry that he had to be relieved with runners on base, with the eighth inning still left to be decided.
But the Mets could not ask for any more from deGrom, who tossed another gem Tuesday night at Citi Field. It was up to the relievers to finish the job. Instead, they smeared another masterpiece by a starter.
After choking up a three-run lead in the eighth inning, falling behind by one, then tying the score, the Mets finally ended a dizzying night with a happy celebration in center field, where teammates mobbed Wilmer Flores after his game-winning hit. The Mets improved to 19-6 at home this season with a 5-4 win in 10 innings over the Philadelphia Phillies .
“Good game for us to hang in there and come back and win,” Manager Terry Collins said. “Because Jake was outstanding.”
Related Coverage
DeGrom was sensational yet again, carrying over from his last start, when he retired 23 St. Louis Cardinals hitters in a row to earn his second straight win. On Tuesday, he walked none and struck out nine in seven and one-third innings.
He left in the eighth after allowing two runners to reach base, with Collins determining that his pitches were beginning to rise. In came the hard-throwing Hansel Robles, who promptly surrendered a two-run triple to Ben Revere, cutting the Mets’ lead to 3-2. The next batter, Freddy Galvis, singled to tie the score.
It took four pitches for Robles to unravel what deGrom had meticulously crafted in 105. Three batters later, a single by Maikel Franco off Carlos Torres gave the Phillies the go-ahead run.
But the Mets pressed on, tying the score in the eighth with a sacrifice fly by Flores against Phillies’ reliever Ken Giles. Flores came through again in the 10th, delivering the game-winner with a single to left with two outs and runners on second and third.
The Mets’ shortstop now has driven in 11 runs in his last 13 games, batting .280 across that span.
“You’re starting to see a guy who’s starting to swing the bat like we know he can,” Collins said. “He’s going to put up some offensive numbers that people are going to be impressed by.”
Flores said: “I feel good I’m just swinging at strikes and getting my pitch to hit.”
The Mets did some early damage in the third against the soft-tossing Jerome Williams, who allowed five hits in six innings. With two outs and a runner in scoring position, Lucas Duda singled to left field to drive in the team’s first run.
Two batters later, Michael Cuddyer followed up with a two-run single.
The Mets are still searching for ways to inject more offense into the lineup. Collins expressed exasperation over his situation at third base, which has been a void since David Wright went down with a hamstring injury in early April.
Eric Campbell (.185, one home run, seven R.B.I.) received the start Tuesday against the right-handed Williams essentially because the metrics tipped the balance in his favor.
“I looked at all the numbers today, and right-handed hitters are hitting .325 off Williams with seven home runs,” Collins said. “So I said, ‘You know what, we need to run a righty in there today.’ ”
Advertisement
Collins added that he did not know who he would play at third base on Wednesday. “It’s going to be an ongoing thing,” he said. “We’ve got to find somebody who’s going to go in there and give us some offense.”
But the concerns about deGrom have been dispelled. He struggled to recapture his National League rookie of the year form in the first month of the season, waffling from good start to bad and falling to 3-4 with a 3.46 E.R.A. after a loss in Chicago on May 11.
Since then, deGrom has allowed three runs in 221/3 innings. He has walked one, struck out 26 and allowed just 12 hits during a stretch that has coincided with some hip and shoulder soreness.
“I’m able to get the ball down in the zone where I want it, versus when I was struggling with my mechanics I was struggling to get the ball down,” deGrom said.
INSIDE PITCH
Catcher Travis d’Arnaud (broken pinkie) played five innings in an extended spring training game on Tuesday. He is expected to begin a rehabilitation assignment with Class A Port St. Lucie later this week. ... The Mets will keep their normal rotation intact after Thursday’s day off, sending Matt Harvey to the mound Friday, Jon Niese on Saturday and Bartolo Colon on Sunday.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B13 of the New York edition with the headline: DeGrom’s Strong Outing Is Botched by Bullpen, but Mets Recover . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Sections
Email
Print
Flores' game-tying sacrifice fly 0:52
5/26/15: Wilmer Flores hits a sacrifice fly to center off Ken Giles, scoring Lucas Duda to tie the game at 4 in the bottom of the 8th inning
By Todd Zolecki / MLB.com | @ToddZolecki |
+
NEW YORK -- Walks continue to haunt the Phillies' bullpen.
The Phillies scored four runs in the top of the eighth inning to take a one-run lead in Tuesday's 5-4 loss to the Mets in 10 innings at Citi Field. But a leadoff walk in the bottom of the eighth inning led to the tying run and a single and a walk to start the 10th allowed the Mets to win the game.
The Phillies' bullpen leads Major League Baseball with 74 walks.
The Phillies have lost five of their last six games. They need to win Wednesday's series finale to avoid a sweep.
"Walks came into play," Phillies manager Ryne Sandberg said.
Phillies setup man Ken Giles walked Lucas Duda on seven pitches to start the eighth inning. Daniel Murphy followed with a double into the right-field corner to put runners on second and third with no outs.
Duda scored the tying run on Wilmer Flores ' sacrifice fly to center field.
"Yeah, he was out of the zone right from the get-go," Sandberg said about Giles. "Looked like he was really struggling to get the ball down and actually throw strikes down in the zone. He was falling behind and it was a little bit of a struggle for him."
Jeanmar Gomez pitched the ninth and started the 10th, when he served up a single to Juan Lagares . Sandberg called for left-hander Elvis Araujo to face Duda. Entering the season, this would have been a spot for left-hander Jake Diekman , but Sandberg said they had Diekman slated as their long man if the game were to go deep into extra innings. Diekman has a 7.56 ERA in 20 appearances.
Araujo walked Duda to put runners on first and second with no outs.
Araujo got Murphy to hit into a double play, but he walked Michael Cuddyer to put runners at the corners. Flores followed with a single to left-center to win it. Sandberg said they did not consider intentionally walking Flores to face the light-hitting Eric Campbell because he wanted to give Araujo some wiggle room.
In other words, Araujo already walked two batters on his own. Loading the bases in that situation might have been an issue.
Sandberg also said he gave no consideration to using closer Jonathan Papelbon in either inning. Typically, most managers do not use their closer in a tie game on the road.
"You've got to have a closer if you get the lead somewhere," Sandberg said. "Then you get burned the other way."
Todd Zolecki is a reporter for MLB.com. Read his Phillies blog The Zo Zone , follow him on Twitter and listen to his podcast . This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

