NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Baseball | Mets 5, Phillies 4
Jacob DeGrom’s Strong Outing Is Botched by Bullpen, but Mets Recover
By ZACH SCHONBRUN
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Mets’ Curtis Granderson scoring in the third on a single by Lucas Duda. Credit Mike Stobe/Getty Images
Advertisement
When Jacob deGrom reached the dugout, he pounded his fist into his mitt twice, angry that he had to be relieved with runners on base, with the eighth inning still left to be decided.
But the Mets could not ask for any more from deGrom, who tossed another gem Tuesday night at Citi Field. It was up to the relievers to finish the job. Instead, they smeared another masterpiece by a starter.
After choking up a three-run lead in the eighth inning, falling behind by one, then tying the score, the Mets finally ended a dizzying night with a happy celebration in center field, where teammates mobbed Wilmer Flores after his game-winning hit. The Mets improved to 19-6 at home this season with a 5-4 win in 10 innings over the Philadelphia Phillies .
“Good game for us to hang in there and come back and win,” Manager Terry Collins said. “Because Jake was outstanding.”
Related Coverage
DeGrom was sensational yet again, carrying over from his last start, when he retired 23 St. Louis Cardinals hitters in a row to earn his second straight win. On Tuesday, he walked none and struck out nine in seven and one-third innings.
He left in the eighth after allowing two runners to reach base, with Collins determining that his pitches were beginning to rise. In came the hard-throwing Hansel Robles, who promptly surrendered a two-run triple to Ben Revere, cutting the Mets’ lead to 3-2. The next batter, Freddy Galvis, singled to tie the score.
It took four pitches for Robles to unravel what deGrom had meticulously crafted in 105. Three batters later, a single by Maikel Franco off Carlos Torres gave the Phillies the go-ahead run.
But the Mets pressed on, tying the score in the eighth with a sacrifice fly by Flores against Phillies’ reliever Ken Giles. Flores came through again in the 10th, delivering the game-winner with a single to left with two outs and runners on second and third.
The Mets’ shortstop now has driven in 11 runs in his last 13 games, batting .280 across that span.
“You’re starting to see a guy who’s starting to swing the bat like we know he can,” Collins said. “He’s going to put up some offensive numbers that people are going to be impressed by.”
Flores said: “I feel good I’m just swinging at strikes and getting my pitch to hit.”
The Mets did some early damage in the third against the soft-tossing Jerome Williams, who allowed five hits in six innings. With two outs and a runner in scoring position, Lucas Duda singled to left field to drive in the team’s first run.
Two batters later, Michael Cuddyer followed up with a two-run single.
The Mets are still searching for ways to inject more offense into the lineup. Collins expressed exasperation over his situation at third base, which has been a void since David Wright went down with a hamstring injury in early April.
Eric Campbell (.185, one home run, seven R.B.I.) received the start Tuesday against the right-handed Williams essentially because the metrics tipped the balance in his favor.
“I looked at all the numbers today, and right-handed hitters are hitting .325 off Williams with seven home runs,” Collins said. “So I said, ‘You know what, we need to run a righty in there today.’ ”
Advertisement
Collins added that he did not know who he would play at third base on Wednesday. “It’s going to be an ongoing thing,” he said. “We’ve got to find somebody who’s going to go in there and give us some offense.”
But the concerns about deGrom have been dispelled. He struggled to recapture his National League rookie of the year form in the first month of the season, waffling from good start to bad and falling to 3-4 with a 3.46 E.R.A. after a loss in Chicago on May 11.
Since then, deGrom has allowed three runs in 221/3 innings. He has walked one, struck out 26 and allowed just 12 hits during a stretch that has coincided with some hip and shoulder soreness.
“I’m able to get the ball down in the zone where I want it, versus when I was struggling with my mechanics I was struggling to get the ball down,” deGrom said.
INSIDE PITCH
Catcher Travis d’Arnaud (broken pinkie) played five innings in an extended spring training game on Tuesday. He is expected to begin a rehabilitation assignment with Class A Port St. Lucie later this week. ... The Mets will keep their normal rotation intact after Thursday’s day off, sending Matt Harvey to the mound Friday, Jon Niese on Saturday and Bartolo Colon on Sunday.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B13 of the New York edition with the headline: DeGrom’s Strong Outing Is Botched by Bullpen, but Mets Recover . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


News
Giles lets 4-run rally go to waste, Phillies fall to Mets in 10
New York Mets' Wilmer Flores (4) runs to first base as Juan Lagares (12) heads to home plate after Flores hit an RBI single to during the tenth inning of a baseball game against the Philadelphia Phillies Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in New York. The Mets won 5-4. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II)
By Dennis Deitch, ddeitch@21st-centurymedia.com
Philadelphia Phillies' Maikel Franco (7) follows through as he hits an RBI single during the eighth inning of a baseball game against the New York Mets Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in New York. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II)
NEW YORK — With the game tied and the heart of the Mets’ order coming to the plate in the bottom of the 10th Tuesday night, Elvis entered the building.
Four batters later, he left the building. So did everyone else, most of them thrilled that Wilmer Flores’ two-out single to left off Elvis Araujo allowed the Mets to walk off with a 5-4 win over the Phillies at Citi Field.
Sandberg turned to the rookie left-hander after Jeanmar Gomez gave up a leadoff single to Juan Lagares. With Jake Diekman getting heavy usage and struggling of late, Ryne Sandberg figured he would give Araujo a shot.
Unfortunately for Araujo, he had the same issue with walking the leadoff batter as the other relievers have had. He walked Lucas Duda to put the winning run at second, but bounced back by getting David Murphy to ground into a double play. Michael Cuddyer followed with a walk to bring put Flores in position to get the game-winning hit a second straight day.
Advertisement
It was the third straight loss and fifth in the last six games for the Phillies (19-29), who have lost any momentum they had created with their six-game winning streak a week earlier.
In truth, it was stunning that the game got that far, because as it entered the eighth it seemed Mets starter Jacob deGrom had a firm grip on the result.
If the Phillies knew that all they had to do was get one baserunner to second base against deGrom and that would prompt Terry Collins to take the dominating right-hander out of the game, they would have gotten on that earlier.
The Phils were down 3-0 and not getting very far against deGrom when Carlos Ruiz and pinch-hitter Cesar Hernandez put together a couple of one-out singles in the eighth. The tying run was coming to the plate, but in the form of Ben Revere, who isn’t hitting a homer off deGrom in this lifetime.
Regardless, Collins decided to go to the bullpen and call in Hansel Robles, who immediately gave up a two-run triple to Revere. Freddy Galvis followed with a single to center, and  four pitches after deGrom left a game he had under control, it was tied, 3-3.
The rally didn’t end there. Chase Utley singled off Alex Torres, moving Galvis to third. Ryan Howard would be called out on a low third strike, but Maikel Franco picked him up with a single to left off the Mets’ fourth pitcher of the inning, Carlos Torres, putting the Phils up, 4-3.
That lead didn’t last long.
Ken Giles walked Duda to open the bottom of the eighth, and the disgust he displayed after ball four quickly turned into trouble when David Murphy followed with a double into the right-field corner. Giles tried to work his way out of the jam, striking out Cuddyer, but Flores scored the tying run with a lineout to center.
The Phils were fortunate to enter the ninth tied, as Franco bailed Giles out when he made an outstanding barehanded play on a slow roller off Darrell Ceciliani’s bat and threw him out by a whisker.
“No, I did not,” Sandberg said when asked if he thought Franco could get Ceciliani there. “Even when he fielded it, I didn’t know if he’d get it over there quick enough. But his arm really came into play.
“Giles was out of the zone from the get-go. It looked like he was really struggling to get the ball down and throw strikes down in the zone.”
The Mets got three runs off Phils starter Jerome Williams in the third inning, and all three came with two outs. They also scored after deGrom hit what should’ve been a textbook double-play grounder to Utley. However, Utley did his patently weak and awful backhanded flip to shortstop from too far away, and deGrom, who is both a good athlete and runs as hard as any pitcher, was able to beat the relay throw as a result.
“It was hit hard enough,” said Sandberg, who as a former second baseman said he never considered doing that backhanded flip. “I thought that it was a double play from the get-go. There was a lapse there. With the pitcher running, it looked like a double-play ball.”
Instead of the inning being over when Juan Lagares grounded into a forceout two batters later, Duda got to deliver an RBI single, and two batters later Cuddyer drove in two more with a broken-bat hit to left field.
“That’s what I was thinking from the get-go – two outs,” Williams said of deGrom’s grounder. “But he was coming down the line hard. I didn’t know he was that fast.
“It all could’ve been prevented if not for the walks. I tried my best to get out of that inning and threw the pitch where I wanted to, but (Cuddyer) got that hit.”

