NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Baseball | Mets 5, Phillies 4
Jacob DeGrom’s Strong Outing Is Botched by Bullpen, but Mets Recover
By ZACH SCHONBRUN
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Mets’ Curtis Granderson scoring in the third on a single by Lucas Duda. Credit Mike Stobe/Getty Images
Advertisement
When Jacob deGrom reached the dugout, he pounded his fist into his mitt twice, angry that he had to be relieved with runners on base, with the eighth inning still left to be decided.
But the Mets could not ask for any more from deGrom, who tossed another gem Tuesday night at Citi Field. It was up to the relievers to finish the job. Instead, they smeared another masterpiece by a starter.
After choking up a three-run lead in the eighth inning, falling behind by one, then tying the score, the Mets finally ended a dizzying night with a happy celebration in center field, where teammates mobbed Wilmer Flores after his game-winning hit. The Mets improved to 19-6 at home this season with a 5-4 win in 10 innings over the Philadelphia Phillies .
“Good game for us to hang in there and come back and win,” Manager Terry Collins said. “Because Jake was outstanding.”
Related Coverage
DeGrom was sensational yet again, carrying over from his last start, when he retired 23 St. Louis Cardinals hitters in a row to earn his second straight win. On Tuesday, he walked none and struck out nine in seven and one-third innings.
He left in the eighth after allowing two runners to reach base, with Collins determining that his pitches were beginning to rise. In came the hard-throwing Hansel Robles, who promptly surrendered a two-run triple to Ben Revere, cutting the Mets’ lead to 3-2. The next batter, Freddy Galvis, singled to tie the score.
It took four pitches for Robles to unravel what deGrom had meticulously crafted in 105. Three batters later, a single by Maikel Franco off Carlos Torres gave the Phillies the go-ahead run.
But the Mets pressed on, tying the score in the eighth with a sacrifice fly by Flores against Phillies’ reliever Ken Giles. Flores came through again in the 10th, delivering the game-winner with a single to left with two outs and runners on second and third.
The Mets’ shortstop now has driven in 11 runs in his last 13 games, batting .280 across that span.
“You’re starting to see a guy who’s starting to swing the bat like we know he can,” Collins said. “He’s going to put up some offensive numbers that people are going to be impressed by.”
Flores said: “I feel good I’m just swinging at strikes and getting my pitch to hit.”
The Mets did some early damage in the third against the soft-tossing Jerome Williams, who allowed five hits in six innings. With two outs and a runner in scoring position, Lucas Duda singled to left field to drive in the team’s first run.
Two batters later, Michael Cuddyer followed up with a two-run single.
The Mets are still searching for ways to inject more offense into the lineup. Collins expressed exasperation over his situation at third base, which has been a void since David Wright went down with a hamstring injury in early April.
Eric Campbell (.185, one home run, seven R.B.I.) received the start Tuesday against the right-handed Williams essentially because the metrics tipped the balance in his favor.
“I looked at all the numbers today, and right-handed hitters are hitting .325 off Williams with seven home runs,” Collins said. “So I said, ‘You know what, we need to run a righty in there today.’ ”
Advertisement
Collins added that he did not know who he would play at third base on Wednesday. “It’s going to be an ongoing thing,” he said. “We’ve got to find somebody who’s going to go in there and give us some offense.”
But the concerns about deGrom have been dispelled. He struggled to recapture his National League rookie of the year form in the first month of the season, waffling from good start to bad and falling to 3-4 with a 3.46 E.R.A. after a loss in Chicago on May 11.
Since then, deGrom has allowed three runs in 221/3 innings. He has walked one, struck out 26 and allowed just 12 hits during a stretch that has coincided with some hip and shoulder soreness.
“I’m able to get the ball down in the zone where I want it, versus when I was struggling with my mechanics I was struggling to get the ball down,” deGrom said.
INSIDE PITCH
Catcher Travis d’Arnaud (broken pinkie) played five innings in an extended spring training game on Tuesday. He is expected to begin a rehabilitation assignment with Class A Port St. Lucie later this week. ... The Mets will keep their normal rotation intact after Thursday’s day off, sending Matt Harvey to the mound Friday, Jon Niese on Saturday and Bartolo Colon on Sunday.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B13 of the New York edition with the headline: DeGrom’s Strong Outing Is Botched by Bullpen, but Mets Recover . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Mets win on Flores' RBI in 10th inning
Mets win on Flores' RBI in 10th inning
NEW YORK -- New York Mets manager Terry Collins has spent a considerable amount of time the past nine months proclaiming that Wilmer Flores' bat will more than make up for any deficiencies he shows at shortstop. Flores has spent the last two days making Collins look clairvoyant.
Flores tied the game with a sacrifice fly in the eighth inning Tuesday night and won it with a two-out RBI single in the 10th inning as the Mets edged the Philadelphia Phillies 5-4 at Citi Field.
Flores also had the game-winning hit in Monday's series opener, when his three-run homer in the sixth inning snapped a tie and lifted the Mets to a 6-3 victory. His seven homers lead all shortstops, while his 21 RBIs rank among the top five at the position.
"You're starting to see a guy who is going to start swinging the bat like we know he can, he's going to put up some offensive numbers that people are going to be pretty impressed by," Collins said.
The Mets (26-21) signed Flores as a shortstop in 2007, but he was moved to second base following the 2011 season. He didn't play shortstop again until 2014, when New York grew frustrated with former starter Ruben Tejada.
Flores started 31 times at shortstop after Aug. 1 last season and has started 42 of the Mets' 47 games at the position this season. He has nine errors, but none since May 15.
"There's been so much attention because of the fact he hadn't played a lot of shortstop coming into the year," Collins said. "But as I said: If he makes the routine play and hits the way we think he's going to hit, he's going to be just fine playing the position he's playing."
Flores hit the ball well in his first four plate appearances but lined out in the second, third and sixth innings. In the bottom of the eighth, Flores' fly out to the right-center-field gap was deep enough to score first baseman Lucas Duda with the tying run.
He was finally rewarded with a hit in the 10th, when he laced the first pitch he saw from left-hander Elvis Araujo over leaping shortstop Freddy Galvis and into left-center field as center fielder Juan Lagares -- who singled leading off the inning against right-hander Jeanmar Gomez (0-1) -- trotted home.
"I'm thinking same thing I'm thinking my first at-bat of the game, which is just get a good pitch to hit," Flores said.
Flores tossed his helmet as he hit first base and sprinted toward second base, where he was enveloped by teammates.
"Good feeling, good feeling," Flores said.
Right-hander Jeurys Familia (1-0) earned the win after tossing a season-high two innings.
The win was especially exhilarating for the Mets after they blew a 3-0 lead in a nine-pitch span in the eighth inning. Right-hander Jacob deGrom, who didn't allow a runner past first base in the first seven innings, was lifted after giving up consecutive one-out singles to catcher Carlos Ruiz and pinch-hitter Cesar Hernandez.
Right-hander Hansel Robles entered the game and gave up the lead in four pitches via a two-run triple by center fielder Ben Revere and an RBI single by Galvis. One out later, third baseman Makiel Franco singled off right-hander Carlos Torres.
"We were able to bounce back against their relievers and had a nice rally," Phillies manager Ryne Sandberg said.
But the Mets tied it in the eighth when Duda drew a leadoff walk against right-hander Ken Giles and went to third on a double by second baseman Daniel Murphy. Left fielder Michael Cuddyer struck out before Flores' sacrifice fly.
"Obviously we had a rough eighth inning, but we kept pushing, we didn't give up," Flores said. "We got it back."
Duda (one RBI) and Cuddyer (two RBIs) each had run-scoring singles in the third.
DeGrom was charged with the two runs on six hits over 7 1/3 innings. He walked none and struck out nine.
Revere and second baseman Chase Utley had two hits for the Phillies (19-29), who have lost three straight and five of six.
Phillies right-hander Jerome Williams allowed three runs on five hits and four walks while striking out four over six innings.
"Guys rallied back and scored four and we were in a good position," Williams said. "You just have to flush this one down the toilet and come back tomorrow."
NOTES: Phillies general manager Ruben Amaro spent 20 minutes talking to reporters in the visitor's dugout as he tried to quiet the stir he created earlier Tuesday when CSNPhilly.com carried an interview with Amaro in which he criticized Philadelphia fans for their impatience with the team's rebuilding. "I probably used my words incorrectly or poorly," Amaro said. "I want to apologize for that." ... Mets C Travis d'Arnaud (broken right ring finger) caught five innings in an extended spring training game. It was his first action since he was injured April 19. He could begin a rehab assignment this week. ... Mets RHP Rafael Montero (right rotator cuff inflammation) is scheduled to throw off a mound on Wednesday for the first time since he went on the disabled list April 30.
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

