NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Baseball | Mets 5, Phillies 4
Jacob DeGrom’s Strong Outing Is Botched by Bullpen, but Mets Recover
By ZACH SCHONBRUN
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Mets’ Curtis Granderson scoring in the third on a single by Lucas Duda. Credit Mike Stobe/Getty Images
Advertisement
When Jacob deGrom reached the dugout, he pounded his fist into his mitt twice, angry that he had to be relieved with runners on base, with the eighth inning still left to be decided.
But the Mets could not ask for any more from deGrom, who tossed another gem Tuesday night at Citi Field. It was up to the relievers to finish the job. Instead, they smeared another masterpiece by a starter.
After choking up a three-run lead in the eighth inning, falling behind by one, then tying the score, the Mets finally ended a dizzying night with a happy celebration in center field, where teammates mobbed Wilmer Flores after his game-winning hit. The Mets improved to 19-6 at home this season with a 5-4 win in 10 innings over the Philadelphia Phillies .
“Good game for us to hang in there and come back and win,” Manager Terry Collins said. “Because Jake was outstanding.”
Related Coverage
DeGrom was sensational yet again, carrying over from his last start, when he retired 23 St. Louis Cardinals hitters in a row to earn his second straight win. On Tuesday, he walked none and struck out nine in seven and one-third innings.
He left in the eighth after allowing two runners to reach base, with Collins determining that his pitches were beginning to rise. In came the hard-throwing Hansel Robles, who promptly surrendered a two-run triple to Ben Revere, cutting the Mets’ lead to 3-2. The next batter, Freddy Galvis, singled to tie the score.
It took four pitches for Robles to unravel what deGrom had meticulously crafted in 105. Three batters later, a single by Maikel Franco off Carlos Torres gave the Phillies the go-ahead run.
But the Mets pressed on, tying the score in the eighth with a sacrifice fly by Flores against Phillies’ reliever Ken Giles. Flores came through again in the 10th, delivering the game-winner with a single to left with two outs and runners on second and third.
The Mets’ shortstop now has driven in 11 runs in his last 13 games, batting .280 across that span.
“You’re starting to see a guy who’s starting to swing the bat like we know he can,” Collins said. “He’s going to put up some offensive numbers that people are going to be impressed by.”
Flores said: “I feel good I’m just swinging at strikes and getting my pitch to hit.”
The Mets did some early damage in the third against the soft-tossing Jerome Williams, who allowed five hits in six innings. With two outs and a runner in scoring position, Lucas Duda singled to left field to drive in the team’s first run.
Two batters later, Michael Cuddyer followed up with a two-run single.
The Mets are still searching for ways to inject more offense into the lineup. Collins expressed exasperation over his situation at third base, which has been a void since David Wright went down with a hamstring injury in early April.
Eric Campbell (.185, one home run, seven R.B.I.) received the start Tuesday against the right-handed Williams essentially because the metrics tipped the balance in his favor.
“I looked at all the numbers today, and right-handed hitters are hitting .325 off Williams with seven home runs,” Collins said. “So I said, ‘You know what, we need to run a righty in there today.’ ”
Advertisement
Collins added that he did not know who he would play at third base on Wednesday. “It’s going to be an ongoing thing,” he said. “We’ve got to find somebody who’s going to go in there and give us some offense.”
But the concerns about deGrom have been dispelled. He struggled to recapture his National League rookie of the year form in the first month of the season, waffling from good start to bad and falling to 3-4 with a 3.46 E.R.A. after a loss in Chicago on May 11.
Since then, deGrom has allowed three runs in 221/3 innings. He has walked one, struck out 26 and allowed just 12 hits during a stretch that has coincided with some hip and shoulder soreness.
“I’m able to get the ball down in the zone where I want it, versus when I was struggling with my mechanics I was struggling to get the ball down,” deGrom said.
INSIDE PITCH
Catcher Travis d’Arnaud (broken pinkie) played five innings in an extended spring training game on Tuesday. He is expected to begin a rehabilitation assignment with Class A Port St. Lucie later this week. ... The Mets will keep their normal rotation intact after Thursday’s day off, sending Matt Harvey to the mound Friday, Jon Niese on Saturday and Bartolo Colon on Sunday.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B13 of the New York edition with the headline: DeGrom’s Strong Outing Is Botched by Bullpen, but Mets Recover . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Sections
Looking slider, Flores delivers heroics for Mets
Shortstop laces pitch for walk-off single in 10th after tying game with sac fly in 8th
Email
Print
Flores on walk-off single 1:04
5/26/15: Wilmer Flores talks about his walk-off single in the 10th and the Mets coming back to beat the Phillies
By Anthony DiComo / MLB.com | @AnthonyDiComo |
+
0 COMMENTS
NEW YORK -- A brief history against Elvis Araujo had taught Wilmer Flores one thing: look for the slider. Araujo throws it often and in various counts, so when Flores came to the plate in a tie game in the 10th inning Tuesday, he was searching for it.
With two men on base and two outs, Araujo threw a fastball first, before looping his signature slider across home plate. Flores recognized it, dropped his shoulder and swung, driving it into left-center field for the second walk-off RBI of his career in a 5-4 win over the Phillies.
Flores' walk-off single in 10th
PHI@NYM: Flores hits walk-off single in the 10th
5/26/15: Wilmer Flores lines a single to left field off Elvis Araujo, scoring Michael Cuddyer to give the Mets the win in the 10th inning
"It's a good feeling," he said, grinning in the postgame clubhouse.
Good feelings have been easier to come by recently for Flores, who spent most of the early season enduring daily lumps of criticism for his defensive play at shortstop. Some of that has dissipated in recent weeks, as his performance has improved while his offensive game has molded into form.
On Monday, Flores broke a tie game wide open with a three-run homer, assuming the Major League lead for home runs by a shortstop. He then hit line drives in each of his first four plate appearances on Tuesday, breaking through for a game-tying sacrifice fly off hard-throwing Phillies reliever Ken Giles in the eighth.
Flores' game-tying sacrifice fly
PHI@NYM: Flores ties game on sacrifice fly in the 8th
5/26/15: Wilmer Flores hits a sacrifice fly to center off Ken Giles, scoring Lucas Duda to tie the game at 4 in the bottom of the 8th inning
That, for Flores, was nice. But what happened next was nicer. A 10th-inning rally brought him to the plate against Araujo hunting sliders.
"I faced the guy before and I was looking for a breaking ball," Flores said. "I got it up, he threw it, I was ready for it."
Flores on walk-off win
PHI@NYM: Flores on his 10th-inning walk-off hit
5/26/15: Wilmer Flores discusses his walk-off hit sending the Mets to a 10th-inning win over the Phillies
More and more, Flores seems ready for what opposing pitchers are throwing his way. Throw out the first eight games of this season, in which Flores was 4-for-25, and he is batting .270 with eight home runs and 21 RBIs in 123 plate appearances. Extrapolate those numbers over a full season, and it becomes clear that Flores has the potential to develop into one of the top offensive shortstops in baseball -- if he is not one already.
Though defense remains a significant issue, Flores has not committed an error in nearly two weeks. He is now tied for fifth in the league for errors, no longer particularly close to the top of that dubious leaderboard.
Mets manager Terry Collins considers those two trends interrelated.
"I truly believe Wilmer's gotten past [his issues]," Collins said. "He realizes there's going to be a day that you're going to make an error. He's got to play through that, and I think he's doing that. We're starting to see a guy who's going to start swinging the bat like we know he can. He's going to put up some offensive numbers that people are going to be pretty impressed by.
"I see a completely different player."
Collins on the Mets' win, Flores
PHI@NYM: Collins discusses Mets' walk-off, Flores
5/26/15: Mets manager Terry Collins discusses his team's 5-4 walk-off win over the Phillies and Wilmer Flores playing with confidence
Simply put, Flores has become reliable. His offensive potential was always there, but his comfort in the big leagues -- it's easy to forget that Flores is still just 23 years old -- was not.
Now, with each game-tying or go-ahead hit, Flores seems to believe more and more that he belongs.
"I feel good," Flores said. "I feel good. I'm right where I want to be."
Anthony DiComo is a reporter for MLB.com. Follow him on Twitter @AnthonyDiComo and Facebook , and listen to his podcast . This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

