NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Baseball | Mets 5, Phillies 4
Jacob DeGrom’s Strong Outing Is Botched by Bullpen, but Mets Recover
By ZACH SCHONBRUN
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Mets’ Curtis Granderson scoring in the third on a single by Lucas Duda. Credit Mike Stobe/Getty Images
Advertisement
When Jacob deGrom reached the dugout, he pounded his fist into his mitt twice, angry that he had to be relieved with runners on base, with the eighth inning still left to be decided.
But the Mets could not ask for any more from deGrom, who tossed another gem Tuesday night at Citi Field. It was up to the relievers to finish the job. Instead, they smeared another masterpiece by a starter.
After choking up a three-run lead in the eighth inning, falling behind by one, then tying the score, the Mets finally ended a dizzying night with a happy celebration in center field, where teammates mobbed Wilmer Flores after his game-winning hit. The Mets improved to 19-6 at home this season with a 5-4 win in 10 innings over the Philadelphia Phillies .
“Good game for us to hang in there and come back and win,” Manager Terry Collins said. “Because Jake was outstanding.”
Related Coverage
DeGrom was sensational yet again, carrying over from his last start, when he retired 23 St. Louis Cardinals hitters in a row to earn his second straight win. On Tuesday, he walked none and struck out nine in seven and one-third innings.
He left in the eighth after allowing two runners to reach base, with Collins determining that his pitches were beginning to rise. In came the hard-throwing Hansel Robles, who promptly surrendered a two-run triple to Ben Revere, cutting the Mets’ lead to 3-2. The next batter, Freddy Galvis, singled to tie the score.
It took four pitches for Robles to unravel what deGrom had meticulously crafted in 105. Three batters later, a single by Maikel Franco off Carlos Torres gave the Phillies the go-ahead run.
But the Mets pressed on, tying the score in the eighth with a sacrifice fly by Flores against Phillies’ reliever Ken Giles. Flores came through again in the 10th, delivering the game-winner with a single to left with two outs and runners on second and third.
The Mets’ shortstop now has driven in 11 runs in his last 13 games, batting .280 across that span.
“You’re starting to see a guy who’s starting to swing the bat like we know he can,” Collins said. “He’s going to put up some offensive numbers that people are going to be impressed by.”
Flores said: “I feel good I’m just swinging at strikes and getting my pitch to hit.”
The Mets did some early damage in the third against the soft-tossing Jerome Williams, who allowed five hits in six innings. With two outs and a runner in scoring position, Lucas Duda singled to left field to drive in the team’s first run.
Two batters later, Michael Cuddyer followed up with a two-run single.
The Mets are still searching for ways to inject more offense into the lineup. Collins expressed exasperation over his situation at third base, which has been a void since David Wright went down with a hamstring injury in early April.
Eric Campbell (.185, one home run, seven R.B.I.) received the start Tuesday against the right-handed Williams essentially because the metrics tipped the balance in his favor.
“I looked at all the numbers today, and right-handed hitters are hitting .325 off Williams with seven home runs,” Collins said. “So I said, ‘You know what, we need to run a righty in there today.’ ”
Advertisement
Collins added that he did not know who he would play at third base on Wednesday. “It’s going to be an ongoing thing,” he said. “We’ve got to find somebody who’s going to go in there and give us some offense.”
But the concerns about deGrom have been dispelled. He struggled to recapture his National League rookie of the year form in the first month of the season, waffling from good start to bad and falling to 3-4 with a 3.46 E.R.A. after a loss in Chicago on May 11.
Since then, deGrom has allowed three runs in 221/3 innings. He has walked one, struck out 26 and allowed just 12 hits during a stretch that has coincided with some hip and shoulder soreness.
“I’m able to get the ball down in the zone where I want it, versus when I was struggling with my mechanics I was struggling to get the ball down,” deGrom said.
INSIDE PITCH
Catcher Travis d’Arnaud (broken pinkie) played five innings in an extended spring training game on Tuesday. He is expected to begin a rehabilitation assignment with Class A Port St. Lucie later this week. ... The Mets will keep their normal rotation intact after Thursday’s day off, sending Matt Harvey to the mound Friday, Jon Niese on Saturday and Bartolo Colon on Sunday.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B13 of the New York edition with the headline: DeGrom’s Strong Outing Is Botched by Bullpen, but Mets Recover . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Sections
Email
Print
deGrom's nine strikeouts 2:23
5/26/15: Jacob deGrom pitches 7 1/3 solid innings, allowing only two runs on six hits and striking out nine hitters against the Phillies
By Joe Trezza / MLB.com |
0 COMMENTS
NEW YORK -- Jacob deGrom punched his hand into his glove, face full of frustration. He had spotted Mets manager Terry Collins making his way to the mound. After holding his first 25 batters to just four hits, how had two more come so quickly? And who thought three more Phillies hits would come so soon after he left the game?
"I felt like I was still making pitches," said deGrom, who didn't factor in the decision of the Mets' 5-4 win over the Phillies. "It's out of my control whether I stay in or not."
Collins pulled deGrom with one out in the eighth after 105 pitches and two consecutive singles, but with the righty still working on a shutout and leading by three runs. Four pitches later, the game was tied, and by the end of the inning, the Mets were behind courtesy of a bullpen carousel that squandered deGrom's second consecutive stellar outing.
"Going into that inning, I knew I probably only had three batters," said deGrom. "So I wanted to get them out. That's why I was frustrated."
Ben Revere 's triple off reliever Hansel Robles allowed two of those three batters -- Carlos Ruiz and Cesar Hernandez -- to score. Freddy Galvis ' RBI single a batter later scored Revere and ruined deGrom's chance for his sixth win. But even the slight muddying couldn't spoil another impressive final line from deGrom: 7 1/3 innings pitched, six hits, two earned runs, nine strikeouts and zero walks.
"It's very unfortunate giving up the runs there and him not coming up with the win," said catcher Kevin Plawecki . "But he threw a heck of a ballgame. He threw everything really well and located his pitches really well."
deGrom's outing came without any postgame talk of discomfort or faulty mechanics. The slight hip and shoulder ailments of the recent past are healed, and the arm-slot adjustments made with pitching coach Dan Warthen are being implemented. After allowing four runs in five innings to the Cubs on May 11, deGrom has limited opponents to three runs in 21 1/3 innings. He's struck out 26 against one walk in that span.
"I give the credit to both Jake and Danny for taking the extra time to find out what the answers were," Collins said. "We're seeing the results."
Collins said he saw signs that deGrom was losing strength during the Ruiz and Hernandez at-bats by missing with his location. But deGrom knew his leash was short to start the eighth inning. Long-term health is paramount these days, and the 105 pitches were a season high for deGrom.
With the Mets going to a six-man rotation next time through, each pitcher will experience extra days of rest. Collins said that could lead to slightly increased individual-game pitch counts for young starters like deGrom, Matt Harvey and Noah Syndergaard .
That could lead to deGrom having more say in finishing late innings he begins.
Joe Trezza is an associate reporter for MLB.com. This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

