life and business insurance right now!
The world's most powerful women are...
Wed, 27 May 2015 8:46 AM
Share
German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Credit: AFP    
German Chancellor Angela Merkel tops the Forbes list of the world's most powerful women for the fifth straight year but Hillary Clinton is snapping at her heels, the magazine said Tuesday.
Behind them came Melinda Gates, who co-chairs the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation with her billionaire philanthropist husband, US federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen and General Motors CEO Mary Barra.
IMF chief Christine Lagarde was in sixth place and Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff came in seventh.
The top 10 were rounded out by Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg (No. 8), Susan Wojcicki, CEO of YouTube (No. 9) and US First Lady Michelle Obama.
Newcomers include US pop star Taylor Swift, in at number 64 and the youngest of the bunch at 25.
The annual list of the world's 100 most powerful women includes leaders in eight categories - technology, politics, business, finance, media, entertainment, philanthropy and billionaires.
Clinton, who in April announced her second run for the White House, was listed at number six last year but as US secretary of state she also ranked number two to Merkel in 2011 and 2012.
"Come next year's US elections, she (Merkel) could lose her title for the first time since 2010 to the one person with a credible and mathematical chance of 'leading' the world," wrote Forbes.
Even if Clinton wins the Democratic nomination for the White House, she has no chance of being elected US president until November 2016 - after Forbes publishes its 2016 most-powerful women list.
Forbes has put the German chancellor on the list 10 times in the past 12 years, nine of them as most powerful woman. Merkel was first elected in 2005 and won a historic third term in 2013.
Geographically speaking, the United States dominates the list. Fifty-nine on the list are American, including several immigrants.
There are 18 from the Asia-Pacific region, headed by South Korean President Park Geun-Hye at number 11, 12 from Europe, four each from Latin America and the Middle East and three Africans, Forbes said.
Other newcomers include EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini, number 36; US Attorney General Loretta Lynch, number 34; and incoming Guardian editor-in-chief Katharine Viner at number 80.
The magazine said the list features eight heads of state and one monarch, who govern nations with a combined GDP of $9.1 trillion and 15 billionaires with a total net worth of more than $73.3 billion.
The top ranking billionaire this year is Oprah Winfrey at number 12 with a personal net worth of $3 billion.
In another measure of influence, the 100 women on the 2014 list have a combined social media footprint that includes 474 million Twitter and YouTube followers, the magazine said.
The world's 10 most powerful women:
1. Angela Merkel
2. Hillary Clinton
3. Melinda Gates
4. Janet Yellen
5. Mary Barra
6. Christine Lagarde
7. Dilma Rousseff
8. Sheryl Sandberg
9. Susan Wojcicki
10. Michelle Obama
Please Note
By commenting on this article, you are agreeing to the Terms and Conditions of the iafrica.com comments system.
Your Daily News
Get daily local and international News, Sport  and Business highlights to your inbox.
The Tech Set
Tech savvy geeks and normal peeps chomp at the bits (pun intended) for their weekly fix!
The Spotlight
All the hottest Entertainment News from around the globe in your inbox every week.
The Good Life
Get your weekly Lifestyle highlights sent straight to your inbox.
Go Full Throttle!
Rev those engines and subscribe to the Full Throttle weekly motoring newsletter.
Travel Bug!
All the latest Travel News in your inbox every week.
Do you wish to receive promotions from our partners?
 
 

