Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Mitt Romney's a 1 percenter (bracket-wise), and easily beats Barack Obama
Post to Facebook
Scene: Mitt's bracket, a great shooter, Sparty pants Mitt Romney's a 1 percenter (bracket-wise), and easily beats Barack Obama Check out this story on IndyStar.com: http://indy.st/1DefaX3
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Dana Hunsinger Benbow , dana.benbow@indystar.com 11:44 p.m. EDT April 6, 2015
Duke Blue Devils fans get ready for the game. The Duke Blue Devils play the Wisconsin Badgers in the NCAA Division 1 Men's Basketball Championship game Monday, April 6, 2015, evening at Lucas Oil Stadium. 
(Photo: Matt Kryger / The Star)
Duke Blue Devils student fan Michael Marion lets his opinion about cheese known. The Duke Blue Devils play the Wisconsin Badgers in the NCAA Division 1 Men's Basketball Championship game Monday, April 6, 2015, evening at Lucas Oil Stadium.  
(Photo: Matt Kryger / The Star)
Wisconsin fan Ed Patz, left of Milwaukee, and Duke fan Rob Paz of Indianapolis, have a photo taken outside Lucas Oil Stadium before the start of the NCAA Championship game with Duke vs Wisconsin on April 6, 2015. 
(Photo: Matt Detrich/The Star)
Wisconsin fan Nick Metiva, 18 of Waukesha, WI has a photo taken outside Lucas Oil Stadium before the start of the NCAA Championship game with Duke vs Wisconsin on April 6, 2015. 
(Photo: Matt Detrich/The Star)
Duke fan Cade Adams, 12 of Upper Sandusky, OH, is all smiles before entering Lucas Oil Stadium before the start of the NCAA Championship game with Duke vs Wisconsin on April 6, 2015. 
(Photo: Matt Detrich/The Star)
Wisconsin fans Camille and Dan Dunn of Madison, WI take a selfie in front of Lucas Oil Stadium before the start of the NCAA Championship game with Duke vs Wisconsin on April 6, 2015. 
(Photo: Matt Detrich/The Star)
The Duke student fans are ready for their game against Wisconsin. The Duke Blue Devils play the Wisconsin Badgers in the NCAA Division 1 Men's Basketball Championship game Monday, April 6, 2015, evening at Lucas Oil Stadium. 
(Photo: Matt Kryger / The Star)
Duke Blue Devils fan and freshman Colby Newsom had her game face on for the Final Four championship game. The Duke Blue Devils play the Wisconsin Badgers in the NCAA Division 1 Men's Basketball Championship game Monday, April 6, 2015, evening at Lucas Oil Stadium.  
(Photo: Matt Kryger / The Star)
Paige Rice, a Duke undergraduate, poses for a selfie with personality Dick Vitale, pre-game, NCAA Men's Basketball Championships, Lucas Oil Stadium, Wisconsin vs. Duke, Indianapolis, Monday, April 6, 2015.  
(Photo: Robert Scheer / The Star)
Charlotte Buchanan, a Duke graduate student, sports blue-colored glasses pre-game, NCAA Men's Basketball Championships, Lucas Oil Stadium, Wisconsin vs. Duke, Indianapolis, Monday, April 6, 2015.  
(Photo: Robert Scheer / The Star)
Like this topic? You may also like these photo galleries:
Replay
Autoplay
(Photo: Photo provided by NCAA)
CONNECT 1 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
From a veteran photographer who has shot 60 Final Fours to Mitt Romney's bracket prowess, these are the things that stood out at Monday's NCAA championship game.
Sixty years through one lens
As Rich Clarkson loaded up his equipment and headed to the court to shoot the NCAA championship game Monday, he carried with him more than a fancy camera.
The memories. Oh, the basketball stories he could tell.
Clarkson, of Denver, was shooting his 60th – and last – Final Four. He shoots for NCAA Photos and Sports Illustrated.
Clarkson shot his first Final Four in 1952. He's missed a few in between.
But he won't soon forget his favorite game. It was that first one – his alma mater University of Kansas won the title that year.
Over the years, he's had players land in his lap. He's captured magical and historic moments. Which is why, with a twinkle in his eye, he finds it hard to admit this will be his last.
"I may be back next year," he said. " Just maybe not down on the court in my regular spot."
Almost presidential picks
Mitt Romney had reason to splurge Monday, stopping at a pretzel shop in Circle Centre Mall and ordering a jumbo twist.
He was in town for the NCAA finals. He had a stake in the outcome.
Heading into Monday night's game between Kentucky and Wisconsin, Romney was in the top 1 percent of the nation in the ESPN bracket challenge.
Out of nearly 12 million entries, he was 25,000th give or take a few hundred.
Romney not only picked all Final Four teams correctly, he also had Duke and Wisconsin in the championship game.
If Duke were to win, as he predicted? His ranking would rise.
For the record, he easily beat Barack Obama on this contest. Obama's bracket was in the 40th percentile.
When asked to chat about his bracket or what kind of sauce he chose for his pretzel, he declined comment.
Not much cheaper than this
Mario Smart is no Duke bandwagon fan. But he does have a budget. So, the Greenwood man wasn't exactly expecting to get to root on his Blue Devils in person in the NCAA championship.
But then he happened upon an ad on Craigslist. A Kentucky fan was so disappointed, he was looking to "give away his tickets for nothing because wildcats are chokers," Smart said the ad read.
Smart thought it might be a hoax, but he called anyway. Sure enough, the guy gave him two tickets.
He and his wife were at the game for free.
"It doesn't get any cheaper than this," he said.
Sparty lives on
He stuck out like a sore green thumb at Lucas Oil Stadium. Jandon Wilcox, 23, was painted in green from head to toe and wore green striped shorts. A Spartan hat sat atop his head. He wandered the concourse, not really interested in the outcome of the game.
For some reason, people stopped to talk to him. People in Blue Devil blue and Badger red.
There wasn't much green around.
"I think they must feel sorry for me or something," said Wilcox, who lives in St. Joseph, Mich. "I kind of feel like a loser."
Of course, Michigan State did lose Saturday to Duke. But when Melissa Reed, a Wisconsin fan, overheard Wilcox talking, she quickly came to his team's defense.
"You made it to the Final Four. You're no loser," she said. "Sparty lives on in you."
Follow Dana Benbow on Twitter: @DanaBenbow.
More Stories

