NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Photo
“The Lion King,” with Nteliseng Nkhela, which opened in 1997, brought in a record $102 million for the season. Credit Joan Marcus
Advertisement
Buoyed by a rising stream of tourists, the unexpected popularity of an adolescent with Asperger’s syndrome, the star power of Larry David and Helen Mirren, and the enduring appeal of a lion named Simba, the Broadway season that just ended was the highest-grossing ever.
The Broadway League, a trade organization that represents producers, said on Tuesday that the 40 Broadway theaters had sold a record $1.365 billion worth of tickets in the year that ended Sunday.
Although the grosses are not inflation-adjusted, and although part of Broadway’s financial success is thanks to premium pricing for prime seats, the League said that Broadway also broke a record for attendance, drawing more than 13 million people. Attendance at Broadway shows has risen 13.3 percent over the last two years, the League said.
Several factors contributed to the growth, theater and tourism industry officials say: a boom in overall visits to New York City, a relatively healthy economy, a perception that Times Square is safer and more family-friendly than it had been, and a diversity of theatrical offerings.
Photo
Helen Mirren plays Queen Elizabeth II in “The Audience.” Credit Sara Krulwich/The New York Times
“I came to New York City to visit the town, but I have to be on Broadway,” said Paola Ruggiero, 39, of Lima, Peru. Ms. Ruggiero, interviewed Tuesday while waiting to buy discounted seats at TKTS, was partway through her first trip to New York; she had already seen “Phantom of the Opera,” the longest-running show on Broadway, and was angling to visit two lesser-known musicals that had opened this past season, “Finding Neverland” and “On the Twentieth Century.”
“My eyes shine when I’m at a show,” she said.
Tourists make up 70 percent of Broadway ticket buyers, and last year a record 56.4 million visitors came to New York, according to Fred Dixon, the president and chief executive of NYC & Company, the city’s marketing and tourism organization.
“You want to get them committed before they arrive,” Mr. Dixon said. Next week his agency is hosting an event at a convention of international travel operators in Orlando at which six Broadway shows — “The Book of Mormon,” “On The Town,” “Aladdin,” “The Lion King,” “Matilda” and even a revival of “Fiddler on the Roof” that doesn’t open until December — will preview their productions.
Advertisement
Advertisement
“People always say that if you are here, you have to go,” said Simone Winter, 28, a visitor from Caxias do Sul, Brazil, leaving the “Aladdin” box office on Tuesday.
And 26-year-old Renan Rocha of Rio de Janeiro, coming to New York for the first time, said he was hoping to see either “Chicago” or “Hedwig and the Angry Inch.” “We don’t have anything like this in Brazil, so big, so magical,” he said.
The record grosses and attendance, as well as the fact that theaters were generally occupied with shows, are good news for an industry that has climbed back after the recent recession .
Photo
Larry David wrote and stars in “Fish in the Dark.” Credit Sara Krulwich/The New York Times
“Even though we’ve had some lows, we’ve been on a high for quite a few years now,” said Robert E. Wankel, the chairman of the Broadway League and president of the Shubert Organization, which owns 17 Broadway theaters, many of which are home to long-running tourist hits like “Phantom” and “Mamma Mia!”
Yet Broadway’s fortunes are not spread evenly. About three-quarters of shows fail financially, and the season that just ended included plenty of productions that tanked, including the musicals “Doctor Zhivago,” “Holler If Ya Hear Me,” “Honeymoon in Vegas,” “The Last Ship” and “Side Show,” as well as a number of plays, including, most strikingly , a 25th-anniversary revival of “The Heidi Chronicles.”
Long-running blockbusters are responsible for a significant portion of the industry’s grosses. “The Lion King” — which is currently the top-grossing show despite opening in 1997 — brought in an eye-popping, and record-breaking, $102 million last season. The other top draws were “Wicked,” at $92 million, “The Book of Mormon,” at $84 million, and “Aladdin,” at $76 million. Three other recently minted hits, “Beautiful: The Carole King Musical,” “Kinky Boots” and “Matilda,” grossed more than $50 million each.
Broadway faces any number of challenges — rising production and marketing costs, concerns about high ticket prices, competition from more easily accessible forms of entertainment, and an increasing reluctance among potential theatergoers to buy tickets in advance. But industry officials say they believe that the range of shows on offer has helped.
“The thing that makes it work is quality and variety — that’s what gets people to come back,” said David Schrader, an executive vice president and managing director of Disney Theatrical Productions, which created “The Lion King” and “Aladdin.”
Advertisement
Many of the 35 productions that began this season — some of which are vying for the coveted Tony Awards on June 7 — only opened in April, and are just beginning to demonstrate their strength, or weakness, at the box office. Four of the season’s musicals are now earning more than $1 million a week, including “An American in Paris,” “Finding Neverland,” “The King and I” and “Something Rotten!”
Among nonmusicals, the season’s top grosser was a starry revival of “It’s Only a Play,” a Terrence McNally comedy featuring Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick, which has brought in $36 million since opening in August; that production is scheduled to close on June 7.
“The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time” stands out as the rare new play to become a commercial hit with an open-ended run — and without a star. The show, about a young boy with Asperger’s syndrome whose effort to understand how a neighbor’s dog died takes him on a poignant and revealing journey, is a British import written by Simon Stephens and based on a popular novel by Mark Haddon. It has grossed $29 million since beginning performances in September.
As has become typical, star vehicles were strong performers at the box office: “Fish in the Dark,” a comedy written by and starring Mr. David, has brought in $18 million since beginning performances in February, while “The Audience,” starring Ms. Mirren as Queen Elizabeth II, has earned $16 million since opening that same month.
Even as industry insiders pore over the last season’s grosses, a new season is already revving up. “An Act of God,” a comedy starring Jim Parsons, opens Thursday. The most anticipated show of the season, the hip-hop musical “Hamilton,” opens in August after a sold-out run Off Broadway.
Jonathan Wolfe contributed reporting.

