Ben Carson talks medicine, money and politics in the Lowcountry - WCIV-TV | ABC News 4 - Charleston News, Sports, Weather
Posted:
Updated:
CHARLESTON, S.C. (WCIV) --- Famed neurosurgeon Dr. Ben Carson made his way from James island to Mount Pleasant Tuesday, meeting and talking to possible supporters of his presidential bid.
The Republican candidate shook hands and met voters alongside congressman Mark Sanford.
“The main reason that I'm running is because I'm concerned about the future of our country,” said Carson. “My whole professional career surrounded the well-being of children, their longevity and their quality of life. “
The now-retired pediatric neurosurgeon is one of six vying for the Republican nomination. He says he's bypassing major fundraising goals like those made by Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and, is instead, expanding his grass-roots effort.
“I'm not trying to compete with her,” Carson said. “I'm trying to make sure we have all the money we need to run the campaign as we see fit and we do. Just in the last two months, we've had 120,000 new donors. No one else can come close to those numbers.”
Meanwhile, Carson said he's keeping a political eye on key issues like international and military affairs
“We have a group of people radical, Islamic, Jihadists who want to destroy us and they want to destroy our way of life and they'll do anything to accomplish their goal. This is not life as usual and unless we recognize that and begin to conduct ourselves consistent with that recognition, they will accomplish their goal,” said Carson.
Dr. Carson caught a flight out of Charleston. His next stop will be Florida.
Valencia Wicker
For assistance with accessing WCIV-TV's public information file, click here .
Advertising
Closed Captioning
Employment Opportunities
If you are looking for job openings at WCIV-TV, click here .
EEO Report Card
Lowcountry Live
If you are interested in appearing on Lowcountry Live, fill out this form .
All content Copyright © 2015 WCIV and Worldnow. All Rights Reserved.

