12h
Phillies rally for lead late before falling to Mets in 10 innings
Tue, 2015-05-26 22:55
May 27, 2015, 12:15 am
Share This Post
NEW YORK – This was a tale of two games.
For the first seven innings Tuesday night, the Phillies were absolutely manhandled by New York Mets right-hander Jacob deGrom. The 2014 NL Rookie of the Year held the pop-gun Phillies’ offense to just four hits while striking out nine and walking none over that span. (Aside to the Mets’ scouting department: Nice job landing him and Matt Harvey in the same draft.)
Mets skipper Terry Collins pulled the plug on deGrom after the pitcher allowed a pair of one-out singles in the eighth inning to put a runner on second base for the first time all night.
That’s when it got crazy.
The Phillies rallied from three runs down in the eighth to take a one-run lead. Alas, they could not hold the lead in the bottom of the inning and eventually lost, 5-4, in the bottom of the 10th on a two-out single by Wilmer Flores (see Instant Replay) .
Flores had tied the game with a sacrifice fly against Ken Giles in the eighth inning. On Monday, he belted a three-run homer in the Mets’ 6-3 win.
With losses on Monday and Tuesday, the Phillies have lost seven straight series to the Mets (dating to May 2014) for the first time in their history. They are 1-7 against the Mets this season.
Walks hurt the Phillies in this one. Starter Jerome Williams walked two in the third inning. One of the walks turned into a run and another extended the inning for Michael Cuddyer, who delivered a two-run single on an 0-2 pitch to give the Mets a 3-0 lead.
In the bottom of the eighth, after the Phillies had staged a nice rally, Giles could not protect a one-run lead. His failure began with a leadoff walk.
Giles needed 27 pitches to navigate the inning. He appeared to be overthrowing at times and struggled to get his slider down.
“It was a struggle for him right from the get-go,” manager Ryne Sandberg said.
Defense helped and hurt the Phillies in this one.
The good: Third baseman Maikel Franco, who tied the game with a two-out base hit in the eighth, saved the game with an amazing play for the final out in the bottom of the inning. Franco made a charging, barehanded scoop and off-balance throw to first to take away what would have been a go-ahead RBI hit by pinch-hitter Darrell Ceciliani.
“I did not think he had a shot at it,” manager Ryne Sandberg said. “Even when he fielded it, I didn’t know if he’d get it over there quick enough.”
The bad: Second baseman Chase Utley made a poor feed to Freddy Galvis on a would-be double play ball off the bat of deGrom with no outs in the third inning. Had the Phillies turned that double play, they might not have given up a run in the third inning.
“It was hit hard enough that I thought double play from the get-go,” Sandberg said. “There must have been some time lapse there somewhere on the play where we didn’t get the turn. It was a solid-hit ball with the pitcher running. He runs good, but it still looked like a double-play ball.”
Utley used a backhand feed and Galvis had to reach down for it.
“I didn’t get as much on it as would have been ideal,” Utley admitted afterward.
Sandberg’s use of the bullpen in the last inning was interesting. After Jeanmar Gomez gave up a leadoff single to Juan Lagares, Sandberg went to rookie lefty Elvis Araujo against lefty-hitting Lucas Duda. Araujo walked Duda, but got a double-play ball. He then walked Cuddyer, who took second uncontested, with Flores at the plate. Flores delivered the game-winning hit, which, given the way he has swung the bat against the Phillies, was not a surprise. What was mildly surprising was that Araujo was the lefty called upon with the game on the line and not Jake Diekman.
“We had him for a long guy tonight,” Sandberg said of the struggling Diekman.
Sandberg said he was not going to use Jonathan Papelbon unless his team had a lead.
It had a lead in the eighth inning, but could not hold it. A wild one in Queens. Jacob deGrom deserved a better fate, but at least his team got the win. The Mets have done that a lot against the Phillies, winning 20 of their last 27 meetings dating to last season.
Tags: 
E-mail Jim Salisbury at jsalisbury@comcastsportsnet.com .
Have the latest Phillies news e-mailed to you each morning by clicking here to sign up for our Phillies newsletters.
‹
6h
Updated: 20h
 
Latest News
(16)

