SEATTLE
SEATTLE Seattle will close dozens of medical marijuana dispensaries operating without a license, the city's mayor said on Tuesday, part of a statewide effort to reconcile the unregulated system with the voter-approved recreational pot industry.
Seattle Mayor Ed Murray outlined a series of regulatory changes in how cannabis operations will do business in the city, saying the rules will improve the marketplace for patients who depend on medical marijuana.
"We’re strengthening the recreational marijuana market and creating safer, more consistent access for those who rely on medicinal products,” Murray said at a news conference.
While marijuana remains illegal under federal law, voters in Washington state and Colorado approved recreational cannabis use in landmark votes in 2012 that ushered in retail stores offering a range of products to adults.
But in Washington, a loosely controlled medical marijuana industry legalized in 1998 has run alongside the highly taxed and regulated recreational-use system.
Last month, Governor Jay Inslee signed a bill to overhaul the medical industry to move it in line with the recreational marketplace.
The changes in Seattle, which will take place over the next 13 months, are part of an effort to transition medical businesses into the framework of the recreational law, city leaders said.
The new rules, expected to be approved by the City Council, will require both medical and recreational storefronts to obtain business licenses specific to the industry.
Storefronts doing business without a license will be able to apply for a city or state permit by July, 2016. Dozens of businesses that cannot obtain a license or that have been doing business without paying taxes will close, Holmes said.
City officials said there are currently about 300 medical operations in Seattle.
The changes also include enforcement action aimed at preventing medical sales to people under the age of 21 and non-qualifying patients.
(Reporting by Victoria Cavaliere in Seattle; Editing by Michael Perry )
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


KUOW Photo/Joshua McNichols
Seattle Mayor Ed Murray says all medical marijuana dispensaries in Seattle are illegal. So he wants to shut half of them down, starting with those that opened recently and haven’t been paying taxes. Those left standing, he plans to offer legitimacy through a city license. 
KUOW’s Joshua McNichols was at the announcement and filed this report.
TRANSCRIPT:
There’s this factory in Sodo called Db3. They get all scientific about marijuana edibles. They have this super secret machine that they won’t even let me take a picture of.
Winterstein: “What is it? This is called a gas chromatograph. It’s equipped with a flame ionization detector.”
Basically, it measures THC levels. Db3 chemist Eric Winterstein says we should really be applying this kind of precision to medical marijuana. 
Winterstein: “Honestly if you’re going to be taking something as a medicine, you want to know what’s in it.”
Seattle Mayor Ed Murray agrees. But he says the newest crop of medical dispensaries are plagued with problems.
Murray: “You know, some of these black market operators are selling stuff that’s hardly pure and hardly appropriate for people who need it for medical purposes.”
Also, he says they don’t pay taxes. And sometimes they sell to minors.
Daniela Bernhard of the Northwest Patient Resource Center
Credit KUOW Photo/Joshua McNichols
Daniela Bernhard runs a dispensary in West Seattle called Northwest Patient Resource Center. She’s confident her business will survive the city’s crackdown. But she’s worried some patients could suffer.
Bernhard: “I do believe it’ll be a bit of a bumpy road maybe for the next year. Patients may not get some of the medicines they are used to having.”
The mayor's plan still needs the approval of the city council.
Tags: 

