SEATTLE
SEATTLE Seattle will close dozens of medical marijuana dispensaries operating without a license, the city's mayor said on Tuesday, part of a statewide effort to reconcile the unregulated system with the voter-approved recreational pot industry.
Seattle Mayor Ed Murray outlined a series of regulatory changes in how cannabis operations will do business in the city, saying the rules will improve the marketplace for patients who depend on medical marijuana.
"We’re strengthening the recreational marijuana market and creating safer, more consistent access for those who rely on medicinal products,” Murray said at a news conference.
While marijuana remains illegal under federal law, voters in Washington state and Colorado approved recreational cannabis use in landmark votes in 2012 that ushered in retail stores offering a range of products to adults.
But in Washington, a loosely controlled medical marijuana industry legalized in 1998 has run alongside the highly taxed and regulated recreational-use system.
Last month, Governor Jay Inslee signed a bill to overhaul the medical industry to move it in line with the recreational marketplace.
The changes in Seattle, which will take place over the next 13 months, are part of an effort to transition medical businesses into the framework of the recreational law, city leaders said.
The new rules, expected to be approved by the City Council, will require both medical and recreational storefronts to obtain business licenses specific to the industry.
Storefronts doing business without a license will be able to apply for a city or state permit by July, 2016. Dozens of businesses that cannot obtain a license or that have been doing business without paying taxes will close, Holmes said.
City officials said there are currently about 300 medical operations in Seattle.
The changes also include enforcement action aimed at preventing medical sales to people under the age of 21 and non-qualifying patients.
(Reporting by Victoria Cavaliere in Seattle; Editing by Michael Perry )
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


GENE JOHNSON, Associated Press
8:57 PM, May 26, 2015
Seattle Mayor Ed Murray holds a news conference at Db3, a cannabis-infused edibles production facility, in Seattle, Tuesday, May 26, 2015. Murray on Tuesday announced plans to require a new special business license for marijuana establishments, akin to those required for taxi operators and pawn shops. (Greg Gilbert/The Seattle Times via AP)
Greg Gilbert
Copyright 2015 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Show Caption
Hide Caption
Previous
Next
SEATTLE (AP) — With Washington state overhauling its medical marijuana law, Seattle Mayor Ed Murray says the city is planning to shutter dozens of dispensaries.
Murray on Tuesday announced plans to require a new special business license for marijuana establishments, akin to those required for taxi operators and pawn shops. Under the mayor's plan, the businesses will be required to obtain the licenses by July 2016.
But just as the state's new medical marijuana law gives priority in licensing to dispensaries that were in operation before Jan. 1, 2013, so does Murray's proposal. Seattle officials say that by their tally, 54 of the city's 99 medical marijuana storefronts opened after that date or have been operating without a city business license.
Murray's office says those businesses won't be getting the special license and need to shut down. The rest will be allowed to remain open long enough to see if they wind up being permitted by the state.
"It is time to ensure that everyone plays by the same rules," Murray said. "We're strengthening the recreational marijuana market and creating safer, more consistent access for those who rely on medicinal products."
Earlier this year, state lawmakers passed a new medical marijuana law as they tried to reconcile the tension in the marketplace since voters in 2012 approved a measure legalizing recreational use of pot.
The proliferation of green-cross medical dispensaries had long been a concern for police and other officials who said they were a masquerade for black-market sales. Some proprietors of the new, state-licensed recreational pot businesses — saddled with higher taxes — called them unfair competitors.
Among the new state medical marijuana law's many provisions, it creates a voluntary registry of patients and, beginning next year, eliminates what have become in some cases large, legally dubious "collective gardens" providing cannabis to thousands of people.
Instead, those patients will be able to purchase medical-grade products at legal recreational marijuana stores that obtain an endorsement to sell medical marijuana, or they'll be able to participate in much-smaller cooperative grows, of up to just four patients.
Washington in 1998 became one of the first states to approve the use of marijuana for medical purposes.
Copyright 2015 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

