Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Uber a rebel no more? Company promises it's done defying Portland taxi laws
Under pointed questioning at a public hearing, Uber on Thursday promised not to relaunch its controversial ride-hailing services without a green light from City Hall.
"We will wait until there are regulations in place," Steger said. "But we do ask the council to deal with this sooner than later."
It is a complete U-turn from the stop-me-if-you-can approach employed by the company last December, when it operated illegally within the city limits for two weeks.
After issuing a cease-and-desist order against Uber, city transportation officials hit Uber with $67,750 in fines .
Commissioner Steve Novick convened the for-hire transportation task force that same month to explore revamping city taxi regulations to possibly allow emerging for-hire transportation companies such as Uber and Lyft in Portland.
In turn , Uber agreed to suspend its controversial UberX ride service -- which allows residents to hail and pay for private rides with the push of a smartphone button.
UberX contracts with drivers who use their private vehicles as de facto taxis, which is illegal in Portland. 
Behind the scenes, Mayor Charlie Hales told Uber it could start rolling again if the city didn't come up with new rules allowing it to operate by mid-April.
According to comments left on Twitter, Uber's local drivers, many of whom are biding their time in the less-lucrative suburbs, felt betrayed by the new strategy:
@josephjrose Uber told its drivers in January we'd be back in Portland by today. Went back on that at a driver's meeting last night.
@josephjrose Many angry drivers at that meeting.
@josephjrose We've been telling our passengers the April 9th date for a few months now.
However, Uber has apparently decided to take a more diplomatic approach moving forward. In fact, earlier this week, the Portland Bureau of Transportation said Uber had paid off its fines .
During a Thursday hearing that start at 2 p.m. and appeared far from finished at 6:45 p.m, the task force presented its recommendations to the City Council.
Among other things, the task force calls for a 120-trial period, when Uber would be allowed to operate with a long list of conditions and long-standing caps on the number of taxis allowed to operate within the city would be lifted.
Under the proposed rules, Uber drivers would not be allowed to queue up with cabs, including at the airport, or be hailed from the curbside.
Steger told the council that Uber would be open to sharing ridership and service data during the four-month pilot period to help city officials understand supply, demand and what riders are willing to pay as they draft final code changes.
A vote on the task force's plan is scheduled for next Wednesday. It was unclear if the City Council was leaning toward approving the plan.
Fish and Commissioner Amanda Fritz voiced concerns about whether proposed guidelines for insurance coverage, criminal background checks and service for disabled riders were adequate.
At one point, Fish said he was worried that the task force was allowing Uber and Lyft to operate on "separate but unequal" playing fields.
For example, current rules prohibit taxis from charging more than $2.60 per mile for each fare. That wouldn't change. But Uber would be allowed to activate its controversial "surge pricing," which jacks up fares when demand spikes.
Fish made it clear that he didn't think that was fair.
Task force chairman Mike Greenfield noted that taxi pricing in the city has always been arbitrary. "There's no data to show what the price structure should be," he said.
It also wasn't clear if Fish and some of other commissioners had taken the time to dive into the current taxi code.  
At one point, Fish said he had spent time researching how ride-hailing companies had greatly devalued taxi medallions in other cities, hurting drivers and taxi companies who had paid big bucks for the permits and wanted to rent them out. He indicated that he was worried about the same thing happening in Portland.
However, if Fish had read PBOT's page of basic FAQs about taxi regulations , he would have seen that the city does not have a medallion system. Instead, drivers must pass a driver test and an annual background check to purchase a permit.
Novick stopped Fish to say, "We don't have a medallion system like other cities."
On Twitter, Fish joked about the stumble:
@josephjrose i misspoke... I meant medallions of veal...
-- Joseph Rose
© 2015 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

