The five Republicans ready to take on Hillary Clinton in 2016
With Hillary Clinton due to declare her presidential intentions on Sunday, we    look at the Republicans most likely to block her route to the White House
The five Republicans set to challenge for presidency (L-R) Jeb Bush, Marco Rubio, Scott Walker, Ted Cruz, Rand Paul Photo: Rex Features; Reuters; Getty Images
By Matt K Lewis
9:04PM BST 11 Apr 2015
In what is widely perceived as a mere formality on her way to the Democratic nomination (and possibly, the White House), Hillary Clinton is due to officially announce her second candidacy for US president on Sunday.
Underscoring the perfunctory nature of this announcement, Mrs Clinton is expected to launch her candidacy via a video message on social media, which – if true – stands as a stark contrast to the high-profile announcement speeches delivered by Republicans Ted Cruz and Rand Paul – the only two candidates to have officially announced for president so far.
Mrs Clinton is hoping to make history by shattering that glass ceiling and becoming the first female president. To get there, she'll also have to buck history. It's difficult for a political party to win three consecutive presidential elections – a trend she'll have to overcome on her way back to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
Moreover, there's an old saying about American politics that "Republicans fall in line, while Democrats fall in love." Democrats have traditionally been more prone to factor passion and excitement into their selection process, while Republicans have been more businesslike in their tendency to settle for the "safe" establishment candidates who wait their turn. Barack Obama was the daring choice (compared to Hillary Clinton) in 2008, while Republican John McCain was "the next guy in line" that same year, as was Mitt Romney in 2012.
But fortunately for Mrs Clinton, that historical cliché appears to be in jeopardy this year. While Democrats seem all too eager to fall in line behind Clinton, Republicans are gearing up for what looks to be a contentious brawl.
It's not at all clear an establishment candidate will emerge. In fact, conspicuously absent for the GOP this time around is an obvious front-runner – an heir apparent – a "next guy in line." Sen. Rick Santorum, as the last man standing against Mitt Romney in 2012, would have been the obvious candidate, except that he isn't considered a top-tier candidate this time around.
The candidates
For now, Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush , 62, is the closest the Republicans have to an establishment candidate. As the brother and son of former presidents, Mr Bush will have plenty of money and name recognition.
But he faces numerous challenges from a conservative base that sees him as too moderate – he supports controversial policy positions on education and immigration reform that are anathema to the conservative base.
And experts says the issue of dynasty could in fact be a problem for Mr Bush, who is perceived as a hand-picked successor to a Bush dynasty that left the GOP in tatters.
This is to say he's not a shoo-in.
In past electoral cycles, multiple not-ready-for-prime-time Tea Party candidates split the conservative vote, leaving just one establishment Republican to secure the nomination.
But this time around, the conservative candidates vying for the nomination are much more legitimate. There are multiple conservatives running who could plausibly reside in the White House.
Don't underestimate Ted Cruz. The fiery Republican senator from Texas, 44, launched his presidential campaign with a deeply religious speech at the world's largest evangelical Christian university. He is incredibly smart and reflects the conservative base's id better than any other candidate. He is adored by the Tea Party for stridently opposing President Barack Obama on issues including guns, abortion, immigration to healthcare.
There is also Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, 52, the charismatic libertarian with youth appeal. He hopes to stand out from his party rivals with an unorthodox platform that appeals to the young and mixes traditional conservative positions with some more progressive stances. But his anti-interventionist foreign policy hasn't aged well since Russia invaded Crimea and Isil started decapitating people. He is also harmed by comparison to Mr Cruz, who is widely seen as a better, more mainstream, version of him.
Meanwhile, there are also several hybrid candidates – people who could potentially be acceptable to both grassroots conservatives and the establishment – that threaten Mr Bush's hold on establishment support.
Florida Sen. Marco Rubio – the son of a bartender who emigrated from Cuba – boasts an "American Dream" story that is nothing short of inspiring. If the goal is to elect a Republican who can eloquently articulate to non-conservatives why conservatism is the best philosophy, he's the man. But Mr Rubio, 43, is still haunted by his support of immigration reform (which many in the conservative base vehemently oppose).
And there is Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker , 47, who took on the unions in his home state and won. That was impressive. He's considered a front-runner, but may not be ready for prime time – many expect him to flounder in the TV debates when it comes to talking about issues such as foreign policy.
The race
Until recently, it was still premature to declare that 2016 would bust the normal campaign paradigm. After all, it was at least plausible a few months ago that everyone on the Right, save for a few cranks and perfunctory challengers, might coalesce around Jeb Bush – and it was at least possible that Mrs Clinton might have faced a legitimate challenge from her Left – possibly from populist progressive Sen. Elizabeth Warren.
The former didn't happen, and the latter now appears highly unlikely.
But this race is still in flux. There are still big shifts in poll numbers to pay attention to.
After Ted Cruz announced his candidacy, for example, he got a solid bump in the polls. It's unclear if this trend will continue as each candidate throws his hat in the race, but in 2012, nearly every Republican candidate seemed to get his or her moment in the spotlight, only to then recede in favour of the next flavour of the day (also-rans like Michele Bachmann and Herman Cain were at separate points the toast of the town).
It is increasingly clear that some other past trends – the things we thought we knew about politics – are out the window. And there are reasons for this.
The rise of Super PACs (political action committees) - fundraising groups that can take unlimited contributions - is one such a game changer.
This isn't an entirely new phenomenon. In 2012, both Sen. Rick Santorum and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich benefited from billionaires (or, at least, multimillionaires) whose deep pockets helped keep them relevant long after their expiration date would have otherwise passed.
But like a cavalry, these sugar daddies tended to arrive on the scene as last-minute saviours. By then, it was almost too late. Mitt Romney had already defeated them.
This time around, the Super PACs are baked into the cake. Within a week of his announcement, Super PACs affiliated with Ted Cruz reportedly brought in over $31 million (£21m).
Because that money was allocated now, it can go toward helping Mr Cruz from the start – not attempt to rescue him later.
What this effectively means is that, rather than having to persuade a large number of donors to invest a few thousand dollars into a presidential campaign, candidates just have to find one billionaire to effectively bankroll them.
Whether this is seen as a good or bad thing, it dramatically alters the criteria for who is considered a "viable" presidential candidate.
2016 is wide open. This is nothing like recent presidential campaigns we've witnessed. Anyone who tells you they know who's going to win is either fooling himself, or lying to you.
Matt K. Lewis is a senior contributor at The Daily Caller website in Washington, DC.
Top news galleries
 
 

