Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Ted, not P.G., gets Dems' early endorsement for Senate
Ted Strickland won support overwhelmingly, despite a few pleas that the Ohio Democratic Party wait to endorse
Post to Facebook
Ted, not P.G., gets Dems' early endorsement for Senate Ted Strickland won support overwhelmingly, despite a few pleas that the Ohio Democratic Party wait to endorse Check out this story on cincinnati.com: http://cin.ci/1FLpnK1
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
3
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Ted, not P.G., gets Dems' early endorsement for Senate
Chrissie Thompson , cthompson@enquirer.com 7:23 p.m. EDT April 11, 2015
Former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland waves to delegates after his speech at the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, N.C., on Tuesday, Sept. 4, 2012.
(Photo: AP Photo/Lynne Sladky)
COLUMBUS – Ted Strickland – and not P.G. Sittenfeld – received the endorsement of the Ohio Democratic Party Saturday, despite a few pleas that the party avoid stifling a primary for the chance to face U.S. Sen. Rob Portman in 2016.
"This is not a Little League Baseball game. This is a U.S. Senate race," Strickland told delegates on the state party's executive committee. "I think I am the guy who is best positioned to have a possibility of winning this seat."
The former Ohio governor received 82 votes out of the 102 Democrats who were present, more than the 60 percent he needed to receive the endorsement. Strickland's supporters had warned party leadership earlier in the week that they were working to orchestrate a rogue endorsement on Saturday .
The party's bylaws allow endorsements of multiple candidates for the same office, but no one moved to endorse Sittenfeld, a Cincinnati councilman. Instead, most of the debate focused on whether the party should make an early endorsement at all. Chapter 9 of the party's bylaws talks about voting to endorse candidates in election years – in other words, in 2016, not in 2015.
Strickland already had the support of most of the party's heavyweights and had a 9-point advantage over Portman in a poll released Monday by Quinnipiac University. But Sittenfeld, who launched his campaign several weeks before Strickland did, outraised the former governor in the first three months of 2015 – $750,000 to $670,000.
Endorsing a candidate – presumably Strickland – so early in the primary process would take away the excitement brought by Sittenfeld's candidacy and ideas, said Rick Neal, a committee member from Columbus.
"For people in my communities who are the amateurs ... all it does is take the wind out of our sails," Neal told committee members, advocating against the vote.
Still, Strickland's supporters said he had the best chance of beating Portman and deserved all the support the party could give him. For instance, with the endorsement, the party will openly campaign for Strickland in its advertising and fundraising material.
"I don't want after this meeting today for Rob Portman to be walking around with any sense that he has any hope of overcoming that nine-point deficit," said Joe Rugola, a prominent executive committee member who is executive director of the Ohio Association of Public School Employees union.
Sittenfeld, an executive committee member, attended previously schedule campaign events instead of coming to the executive committee meeting. Saturday morning, he sent committee members an email, asking them not to endorse any candidate this early in the primary process.
"For millions of Democrats across the state to see a small group of party officials diminish voters' voices runs contrary to what our party stands for," Sittenfeld said in the email, released by his campaign. "We reject the idea that elites know best."
At the meeting, Rugola denounced the notion that trade union members such as himself were "elitist."
Even without the endorsement, Sittenfeld will remain in the race, spokesman Dale Butland said.
"It doesn't change P.G.'s mind or weaken his resolve," Butland said. "We're determined to let the people decide."
The young councilman had already angered many Democrats by suggesting he'd drop out if Strickland entered the race, then changing his mind .
Portman, a Terrace Park Republican, also received his party's endorsement on Friday. A spokesman said he thought he heard one "nay" in the voice vote.
Some Republican officials have declined to endorse Portman , citing his support for same-sex marriage. Conservatives have threatened to challenge him in a primary. But no candidates have come forward to take on the freshman senator, who has more than $8 million in his campaign fund.
"The National Democrats are going to spend millions of dollars supporting Ted Strickland, and that is why this endorsement is so important: the Ohio Republican Party is united around Rob Portman," Ohio Republican Party Chairman Matt Borges said in a statement. "Rob is one of the most substantive and most effective members of Congress, and we look forward to making sure he can continue to fight for Ohio jobs in the U.S. Senate."
Read or Share this story: http://cin.ci/1FLpnK1
More Stories

