Hamas tortured, killed Palestinians during Gaza war: Amnesty
AP
In this May 21, 2015 photo, a member of Palestinian security forces loyal to Hamas demonstrates his skills as smoke rises following an explosion during a military graduation ceremony in Gaza City.
The Palestinians targeted were either political rivals of Hamas or people the militant group had accused of cooperating with Israel.
A leading international watchdog on Wednesday accused the militant Hamas group of abducting, torturing and killing Palestinians during the war in the Gaza Strip in 2014, saying some of the actions amount to war crimes.
Amnesty International detailed the abuses in a report entitled “Strangling Necks — Abduction, torture and summary killings of Palestinians by Hamas forces during the 2014 Gaza/Israel conflict.”
According to the London-based human rights group, some 23 Palestinians were shot and killed and dozens more were arrested and tortured by Hamas, which rules Gaza. The Palestinians targeted were either political rivals of Hamas, including members of the Fatah party of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, or people the militant group had accused of cooperating with Israel, Amnesty said.
Wednesday’s report highlighted a particularly brutal incident , which it said took place in Gaza on August 22, 2014.
“In one of the most shocking incidents, six men were publicly executed by Hamas forces outside al-Omari mosque... in front of hundreds of spectators, including children,” Amnesty said. Hamas had announced the men were suspected “collaborators” who had been sentenced death in “revolutionary courts,” the rights group added.
“The hooded men were dragged along the floor to kneel by a wall facing the crowd, then each man was shot in the head individually before being sprayed with bullets fired from an AK-47,” the report said of the August incident.
The report said 16 of the people killed by Hamas were already being held by the militant group when the conflict erupted and many of them were waiting to hear the verdict of their Hamas-organised trials. “Many had been sentenced after trials before courts whose proceedings are grossly unfair. A number had said they had been tortured in order to extract ‘confessions,’” the report said.
Amnesty’s report also said that Hamas abducted and tortured people in an outpatient clinic that was no longer in use, within the grounds of Gaza City’s main hospital, Shifa.
“Hamas forces have displayed a disregard for the most fundamental rules of international humanitarian law,” Philip Luther, the group’s Middle East and North Africa Director said. “Torture and cruel treatment of detainees in an armed conflict is a war crime. Extrajudicial executions are also war crimes.”
This was not Amnesty’s first report on the 2014 Gaza war.
In March, the group accused Hamas of war crimes for launching unguided rockets and mortars from civilian areas in Gaza toward civilian areas in Israel, saying that was a breach of international law. And in December, Amnesty condemned Israel for flattening four landmark buildings in the final days of the war. Israel dismissed that report, saying Hamas was using the buildings as command centres.
Salah Bardawil, a Hamas official in Gaza, said the incidents mentioned in the report took place “outside the framework of the law” and Hamas was investigating them.
1.  Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.  Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.  Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters,
      or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
      (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.  We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.  Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.
Slideshow
Group Sites
Iraq’s Shia paramilitaries said on Tuesday that they had taken charge of the campaign to drive Islamic State from the western province o... »


Photo Credit: IAF Facebook Page
The Israeli Air Force struck four terrorist targets in the southern Gaza Strip during Wednesday’s early morning hours. The strikes were in response to rockets fired from Gaza at Israel on Tuesday, May 26.
There remains some uncertainty about how many rockets were fired from Gaza towards Israel on Tuesday. Initial reports claimed five rockets were fired. Hours later the IDF stated only one rocket was fired and it struck Gan Yavne, near the Israeli coastal town of Ashdod. Gan Yavne is approximately 23 miles northeast of the Gaza Strip.
The IDF foreign media spokesperson Lt. Col. Peter Lerner stated that the strikes against Gaza “are a direct response to Hamas and the aggression against Israeli civilians originating from the Gaza Strip.”
Lerner said that Hamas uses the Gaza Strip as a “staging ground to attack Israel,” which Lerner called “unacceptable and intolerable.”
“Israelis can not be expected to live in the perpetual fear of rocket attacks, the IDF will continue to operate in order to seek out those that wish to undermine Israeli sovereignty with acts of terrorism,” Lerner admonished.
Some claimed that the terrorist organization Islamic Jihad fired the rocket on Tuesday. However, Israel holds Hamas responsible, as the elected leadership of the Gaza Strip, for all violence emanating from that location.
It was 67 years ago today, May 27, that the order was issued by Israel’s first president to establish the Israel Defense Forces. Today the IDF continues to protect its citizens from all manner of efforts to harm its citizens.
As of publication time there were no reports of physical injuries from either set of rockets.
About the Author: Lori Lowenthal Marcus is the US correspondent for The Jewish Press.  She is a recovered lawyer who previously practiced First Amendment law and taught in Philadelphia-area graduate and law schools. You can reach her by email: Lori@JewishPressOnline.com
If you don't see your comment after publishing it, refresh the page.
Our comments section is intended for meaningful responses and debates in a civilized manner. We ask that you respect the fact that we are a religious Jewish website and avoid inappropriate language at all cost.
If you promote any foreign religions, gods or messiahs, lies about Israel, anti-Semitism, or advocate violence (except against terrorists), your permission to comment may be revoked.
You must log in to post a comment.
No Responses to “Israeli Air Force Strikes Back at Gaza for Rocket Attack”
Current Top Story
on May 27, 2015 12:30 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More Articles from Lori Lowenthal Marcus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No portion of this website may be copied without the express written permission of JewishPress.com.
Printed from: http://www.jewishpress.com/news/breaking-news/israeli-air-force-strikes-back-at-gaza-for-rocket-attack/2015/05/27/
Send to Email Address
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

