President Obama (left) and Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong (right) attend a meeting with leaders of the Trans-Pacific Partnership countries in Beijing.
Debates about the United States’ participation in the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a controversial proposal that would oversee 40 percent of all U.S. foreign trade, have been going on for years. Those debates are coming back to Congress this week.
President Barack Obama has been pushing the proposed agreement. Supporters include politicians on both sides of the aisle, as do opponents. The trade is a central piece of Obama’s foreign policy in the Pacific region.
Like many trade agreement negotiations, details of the TPP negotiations have been largely secret. The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, part of the Obama administration, says the agreement would “boost U.S. economic growth” and “support American jobs.”
Supporters of the deal want Congress to approve “fast-track” authority for the president as his administration negotiates the trade agreement. That would mean Congress could only vote yes or no on the final agreement, and could not change it.
Based on leaked details of the negotiations, observers believe stronger intellectual property and copyright laws would be part of the deal, which could benefit entertainment and software companies. Other businesses and manufacturing companies would also benefit, and strong support for TPP comes from many throughout the business community.
“We find this to be a worthy goal, because there is so much business to be had by selling things to people who live in the countries surrounding Pacific Ocean, like Canada, Australia, Mexico and Chile,” said Steve Roberts, president of the West Virginia Chamber of Commerce.
“From our point of view, anything we can do that opens up new marketplaces is good for U.S. workers and the U.S. economy,” Roberts said.
But the Alliance for American Manufacturing — a coalition between the U.S. Steel, the nation’s major steel producers and the United Steelworkers of America — is fighting its passage. Alcoa Aluminum and Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. are also members of the Alliance.
The TPP, which would become the world’s largest trade and export agreement, is being negotiated among 12 countries bordering the Pacific Ocean; besides the U.S., they include Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. The agreement does not include China or South Korea.
The countries involved in TPP negotiations are home to nearly 800 million people. The TPP would be the biggest international trade agreement since the North American Free Trade Act — which changed trade relations between Canada, Mexico and the United States — was approved by Congress and signed by then-President Bill Clinton in 1994.
Sens. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., have been leading efforts to protest the Obama administration’s continuing refusal to share information with Congress and the public about the details of the controversial legislation.
Warren believes secret trade agreements, granting the White House “fast-track authority” to approve the Trans-Pacific Partnership without Congressional knowledge and approval, might allow corporations to undermine U.S. sovereignty,
Rich Trumka, president of the AFL-CIO, recently wrote a letter to The New York Times noting that TPP negotiations are “pretty far along. Congress still has some influence, but passing ‘fast track’ would undermine its leverage. That’s because fast track forces Congress to vote yes or no on a completed deal. Congress would have no opportunity to offer amendments on behalf of working people.
“Fast track is a blank check to negotiate a corporate wish list in secret. All of the trade agreements passed under fast track have failed to live up to their promise,” Trumka wrote. “They have contributed to huge trade deficits, stagnant wages and a deteriorating middle class.”
“There are people, groups and organizations who have concerns. Their concerns need to be considered too,” Roberts said.
Roberts said, “Everyone is waiting to read and see what language ends up being in the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement,” he said. “We think there are many West Virginia employers who would like to know what the rules are and to have more and better trade opportunities with other countries.”
User Comments
Get Daily Headlines by E-Mail
Sign up for the latest news delivered to your inbox each morning.
Thank you for signing up for our eHeadlines.
Please check your inbox for a confirmation message.
Most Popular

