Ecstasy: Desperation Calls for Desperate Measures
 
Sometimes yesterday’s foe is today’s friend. In this spirit, Ecstasy, an illegal psychoactive drug’s potential as an anxiety alleviator for patients suffering from terminal conditions is being investigated by Californian Scientists.
At Santa Cruz, Brad Burge, speaker for the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies, announced that more than a dozen patients with life-threatening conditions will participate in the double-blind blind trial. Participants include cancer patients who are expected to live at least, but not much more than, 9 months.
The participants will be given either 125mg of MDMA or 30mg of a control placebo with the goal of testing wither or not MDMA can actually provide a measure of relief for patients suffering from crippling fear, anxiety, or depression due to their condition.
Dr. Philip Wolfson, principal investigator of the trial, said that a soothing effect that can last four to five hours can be “transformationally potent,” as long as trained therapists are there to maintain a controlled setting.
“It’s a substance that supports deep, meaningful and rapidly effective psychotherapy,”
Ecstasy, the street name for MDMA, has been a drug that federal laws have banned for decades. Accordingly, FDA regulations and U.S. laws enforce a stranglehold on any information from their trials and studies. Despite that, results are expected to come within 12 to 15 months.
According to Burge, “Our hypothesis is that something is happening with MDMA that makes psychotherapy easier.” “So with a lower dose of MDMA in the active placebo, it might fool the subject or the therapist. And by giving people the option of following up with another half dose, it just extends the window for therapy rather than making it more intense.”
Image: http://www.theatshow.com/
Previous article
NO COMMENTS
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Esbtrib.com is the hub of tech news. We provide you with the latest happening news straight from the Sillicon Valley.
April 8, 2015
May 19, 2015

