Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Should food stamps be used to purchase steak, seafood and energy drinks? A lawmakers says 'no'
An Electronic Benefit Transfer card. (AP Photo/Rich Pedroncelli, File)Gareth Clary | GulfLive.com 
Every story I've ever written about food stamps has been met with the same comments: recipients abuse the program.
Instead of helping people in need, the assistance goes towards purchasing items that other shoppers simply have to put back if it isn't in their budget, they say. Or, it allows recipients to use their own money to buy things such as cigarettes and alcohol because the government funds are footing the bill for the basics, they add.
Those are the kinds of questions that come with a program that costs the government some $80 billion a year.
As many as 47.6 million people nationwide receive assistance through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, commonly known as food stamps. And while the error rate - defined as people receiving too much or too little in assistance - has continue to drop - the issue of abuse remains.
That's led to a Missouri lawmaker introducing a bill that would severely limit what food stamps can be used for. On the chopping block? Cookies. Chips. Energy drinks. Soft drinks. Steaks and seafood.
Currently, you  cannot use food stamps to buy alcohol, any tobacco products, non-food items such as paper products, vitamins or hot, ready-to-eat food. The SNAP website says that they can be used for breads and cereals, fruits and vegetables, meats, fish and poultry and dairy products.
Those restrictions aren't enough, according to the bill's sponsor, Rep. Rick Brattin, a Republican.
"The intention of the bill is to get the food stamp program back to its original intent, which is nutrition assistance,"  he told the Washington Post. "I have seen people purchasing filet mignons and crab legs with their EBT cards. When I can't afford it on my pay, I don't want people on the taxpayer's dime to afford those kinds of foods either."
SNAP currently pays roughly $194 a month per member of a household.
Critics of the plan are many.
"I think everyone is pretty clear that the intent of this bill is to shame and humiliate poor people," Progress Missouri wrote. "If Rep. Brattin truly wants to improve the health of Missourians he should support Medicaid expansion and urge his colleagues to as well."
We're interested to hearing from you. Should the government restrict what  purchases can be made with food stamps?
© 2015 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Alabama Media Group
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

