The State Column, Dan Taylor | April 05, 2015
Her new campaign headquarters will be located in two stories of a 19-story office building in the trendy Brooklyn Heights neighborhood.
Former U.S. Secretary of State and presumed Democratic presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton has just leased a huge amount of office space for her campaign headquarters in the Brooklyn.
The location — 1 Pierrepont Plaza in Brooklyn Heights — is a trendy spot that is very accessible in the city, with 12 Subway lines and just a short bridge crossing from lower Manhattan, according to a Jewish Press report .
Two floors of the 19-story building were leased, indicating that Clinton is very close to announcing her candidacy for president. The Federal Election Commission requires that candidates file paperwork for a 2016 run within 15 days of opening official campaign activities, which includes leasing office space.
Brooklyn Heights is certainly a well-to-do area in New York, with a median household income of around $100,000, double the national median, according to a Christian Science Monitor report . It is filled with row homes and apartment buildings, and boasts celebrities such as actress Lena Dunham and documentary filmmaker and Oscar winner Errol Morris.
It also features a private school that charges $25,000 per year.
New York has served as Clinton’s adopted home ever since she moved out of Arkansas where her husband served as governor to live in the White House as the first lady after Bill Clinton defeated George H.W. Bush in 1992. The family bought a home in Chappaqua in 1999, and she split time between there and Washington when she was elected as a U.S. senator representing the state, and then later became secretary of state in President Obama’s administration.
The move may very well be aimed at attracting staffers in what is sure to be a hotly contested campaign. The area is perfect for young staffers who would need to relocate for the campaign. It also boasts easy access to airports and public transportation.
Dan Taylor - Dan Taylor has established himself as an expert on national politics, covering Capitol Hill and the defense industry. His writing has been seen in publications like Government Executive, C4ISR Journal, Seapower Magazine, InformationWeek, and USA Today. In addition to his published works, he is the founder of Taylor'd Reports, a company specializing in analyzing aggregating content related to the defense industry.
Comments

