2015-04-07 14:49:29
2015-04-06 13:21:08
2015-04-06 14:07:19
2015-04-07 14:47:47
Previous Story
Next Story
New York Given A Blueprint For How To End Homelessness By 2020
7 minutes ago
NEW YORK, NY - AUGUST 22: A homeless man sleeps on a Manhattan street on August 22, 2014 in New York City. According to the Department of Homeless Services, the number of homeless people in New York City has risen by more than 20,000 over the past five years. Newly elected Mayor Bill de Blasio, who ran as a liberal, has released a $41 billion plan to create 200,000 units of affordable housing across the city. Critics say the plan is too far off and that more immediate solutions need to be implem | Spencer Platt via Getty Images
A group of activist organizations are optimistic about ending homelessness in New York City in the next five years, but they'll need policymakers on board in order to make their dream a reality.
“Homes for Every New Yorker” -- a group of 13 advocacy organizations -- released a report on Tuesday outlining how city and state leaders can craft solutions that ensure no New Yorker lives without stable shelter. The report points to nine strategies that advocates say -- if put into action under Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio in unison -- could end homelessness in New York City by 2020 .
The strategies address the issue from a variety of different angles -- from setting aside 10 percent of all new city-assisted housing for homeless individuals and raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour , to expanding rental assistance to every low-income New Yorker living with HIV and investing in cost-saving programs that combat homelessness.
Jennifer Flynn, executive director of VOCAL-NY -- one group behind the report -- believes the recommendations can make a true difference if taken seriously by those in charge.
“The point is to get a real, deep commitment to ending homelessness ,” she said, according to New York Daily News. "It’s not an entrenched problem. We think there’s people in [the mayor's] administration that recognize this.”
Many of the report's solutions focused on making housing in New York City more affordable -- a crisis that has reached unprecedented levels in recent years, USA Today reported.
In a new plan by the mayor addressing housing affordability, de Blasio noted that more than half of rental households were "rent-burdened" in 2012, delving out more than 30 percent of their incomes on housing. The mayor also pointed out that rents rose by 11 percent between 2005 and 2012, even though incomes stagnated.
Less affordable housing has contributed to the historic rise in homelessness in New York City, according to the report by “Homes for Every New Yorker." Roughly 60,000 homeless New Yorkers -- an all-time high -- sleep in shelters, including 25,000 children.
Putting an end to homelessness in America's most populous city won't be easy, but it's doable, according to City Councilman Stephen Levin.
“It would take a lot of resources," the democrat from Brooklyn told NY Daily News. " But this is solvable .”
To take action on pressing poverty issues, check out the Crowdrise widget below.


Former President Bill Clinton, administers the oath of office to Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio as his wife Chirlane McCray, second from right, Dante de Blasio, center, and Chirlane McCray watches on the steps of City Hall Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014, in New York. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II)
Bill de Blasio, right, greets supporters as he arrives for an inauguration ceremony at City Hall in New York, Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig)
New York City Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio arrives on stage at the start of an inauguration ceremony at City Hall in New York, Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig)
Former President Bill Clinton and Former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton arrive for New York City Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio's Inauguration ceremony on the steps of City Hall Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014, in New York. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II)
New York City Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio, left, arrives with his family Chiara de Blasio, second from left, Dante de Blasio, center, right, Chirlane McCray to take the oath of office in on the steps of City Hall Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014, in New York. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II)
New York City Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio and his family arrive on stage at the start of an inauguration ceremony at City Hall in New York, Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig)
New York City Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio, left, arrives with his family Chiara de Blasio, second from left, Dante de Blasio, center, right, Chirlane McCray to take the oath of office in on the steps of City Hall, Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014, in New York. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II)
State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, left, speaks while Bill de Blasio, right, and his family Chiara de Blasio, second from left, Dante de Blasio, center, and Chirlane McCray look on at the start of the new year, Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014 in New York. De Blasio took the oath of office moments after midnight at his home in Park Slope, Brooklyn. His inauguration will be celebrated at noon Wednesday on the steps of City Hall when he takes the oath again, which will be administered by former President Bill Clinton. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig, Pool)
Bill de Blasio, right, waves to the crowd with his wife Chirlane McCray, second from right, and children Dante and Chiara de Blasio, after being sworn in as the mayor of New York City at the start of the new year, Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014 in New York. De Blasio took the oath of office moments after midnight at his home in Park Slope, Brooklyn. His inauguration will be celebrated at noon Wednesday on the steps of City Hall when he takes the oath again, which will be administered by former President Bill Clinton. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig, Pool)
Bill de Blasio blows a kiss and waves as he exits his house with his family for a swearing in ceremony at the start of the new year, Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014 in New York. De Blasio took the oath of office moments after midnight at his home in Park Slope, Brooklyn. His inauguration will be celebrated at noon Wednesday on the steps of City Hall when he takes the oath again, which will be administered by former President Bill Clinton.(AP Photo/Seth Wenig, Pool)
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, right, waves while standing with his wife Chirlane McCray, second from right, and children Dante de Blasio, second from left, and Chiara de Blasio, after being sworn in as the mayor of New York City at the start of the new year, Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2014 in New York. De Blasio took the oath of office moments after midnight at his home in Park Slope, Brooklyn. His inauguration will be celebrated at noon Wednesday on the steps of City Hall when he takes the oath again, which will be administered by former President Bill Clinton. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig, Pool)
NEW YORK, NY - JANUARY 1:  Bill de Blasio (R) is sworn in as mayor of New York City by State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman (L) while his family (L-R) Chiara de Blasio, Dante de Blasio and Chirlane McCray look on after midnight January 1, 2014 in the Park Slope neighborhood of the Brooklyn borough of New York City. De Blasio took the oath outside his home in Park Slope. His inauguration will be celebrated at noon today on the steps of City Hall when he takes the oath again, which will be administered by former U.S. President Bill Clinton.  (Photo by Seth Wenig-Pool/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - JANUARY 1:  Bill de Blasio waves as he exits his house for his swearing in ceremony after midnight January 1, 2014 in the Park Slope neighborhood of the Brooklyn borough of New York City. De Blasio took the oath outside his home in Park Slope. His inauguration will be celebrated at noon today on the steps of City Hall when he takes the oath again, which will be administered by former U.S. President Bill Clinton.  (Photo by Seth Wenig-Pool/Getty Images)
Actresses Cynthia Nixon (L) and Susan Sarandon (R) before the  inauguration of New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio on the steps of City Hall in Lower Manhattan January 1, 2014 in New York.  AFP PHOTO/Stan HONDA        (Photo credit should read STAN HONDA/AFP/Getty Images)
Bill de Blasio(C) is sworn in as New York City Mayor by former US President Bill Clinton on the steps of City Hall in Lower Manhattan January 1, 2014 in New York.  AFP PHOTO/Stan HONDA        (Photo credit should read STAN HONDA/AFP/Getty Images)
 Share
 Tweet
More:
Conversations
Options
Impact
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Impact
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Impact
Follow
Part of AOL Lifestyle
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

