LATEST IN FINANCE
by:
From:
AP
A window sticker promising service to all is displayed in opposition to the state new religious objections law in downtown Indianapolis. Source: AP
INDIANA tourism agencies are rolling out campaigns emphasising that everyone is welcome, but they may not be enough to quickly restore the state’s battered image after a backlash over its religious objections law.
Fears that the law would allow discrimination against gays and lesbians led convention organisers and performers to cancel events and some state and local governments to ban travel to the state last week.
Business leaders say public relations campaigns may not be enough to immediately restore the state’s damaged reputation.
Gov. Mike Pence approved changes to the law to make clear it can’t be used to discriminate, although some economic impact has already been felt.
The convention and tourism industry has been the hardest hit with at least two conventions cancelled in Indianapolis.
Meet Max
Meet Max
Watch this short video about Max and learn everything you need to know.
MB5360
SMALL BUSINESS MASTER
This small business super-star is the top of the line printer in the MAXIFY range. The MB5360 boasts a range of quality features, including; one pass double-sided scanning, a 7 second fast-first-print, 2,500 B&W pages on a single XL ink tank and 2 large paper trays.
SMALL BUSINESS CHAMPION
MAXIFY your work time with a fast-first-print in approximately 7 seconds, 23 B&W pages per minute, 2,500 page B&W XL ink tank capability and 1 high capacity paper tray. For those of you who need less paper capacity, can do without the single pass double sided scanning, but still require speed and efficiency, this is your MAXIFY Printer.
HOME OFFICE ACE
Perfect for any home office this everyday MAXIFY will get your print, copy, scan or fax job done super-fast and be your efficient hero. The large 3 inch touch screen makes navigation and set up easy, while features such as fast-first print in approximately 7 seconds, 23 black and white pages per minute print speeds and the ability to get up to 1,200 black and white pages out of an XL ink tank will save you both money and time.
HOME OFFICE STAR
The entry level for the MAXIFY range is the perfect printer to upgrade your home office. Get your home office running more efficiently with a 250 capacity paper tray and the ability to get 1,200 pages from XL ink tanks. Speed things up with the ability to get your first page out in approximately 8 seconds and achieve 16 black and white pages per minute.
This is also known as Online Behavioural Advertising.

