Federer, Sharapova eye French Open last 32 | Bangkok Post: news
27 May 2015 at 08:45 10 viewed 0 comments
- +
PARIS - Roger Federer, the 2009 winner, and defending women's champion Maria Sharapova target places in the French Open third round on Wednesday.
Russia's Maria Sharapova serves against Estonia's Kaia Kanepi during their women's first round match of the French Open, in Paris, on May 25, 2015
Second seed Federer, comfortably in the other half of the draw to Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray, faces Spanish claycourter Marcel Granollers on Court Suzanne Lenglen.
Federer has defeated Granollers in all of their three previous meetings.
Sharapova, the 2012 and 2014 champion, faces Russian Fed Cup teammate Vitalia Diatchenko with the second-round tie opening play on Court Philippe Chatrier.
Diatchenko, the world number 91, is bidding to make the third round for the first time.
Fifth seed Kei Nishikori, the only Japanese man left in the draw of the five who started out, meets Brazil's Thomaz Bellucci, who warmed up for Roland Garros with the claycourt title in Geneva last weekend.
Romanian third seed Simona Halep, the runner-up to Sharapova in 2014, faces 33-year-old Croatian Mirjana Lucic-Baroni, who last made the second round in 2002.
Tomas Berdych, the fourth-seeded Czech, takes on Davis Cup winning teammate Radek Stepanek, who at 36 is the oldest man in the draw.
French Open order of play on showcourts on Wednesday, the fourth day of the 2015 tournament at Roland Garros (x denotes seeded player; 0900GMT start):
Court Philippe Chatrier
Carla Suarez Navarro (ESP x8) v Virginie Razzano (FRA)
Court Suzanne Lenglen
Court One
Like dislike 0 people liked / 0 people disliked it
Share this article
0 people commented about the above
Readers are urged not to submit comments that may cause legal dispute including slanderous, vulgar or violent language, incorrectly spelt names, discuss moderation action, quotes with no source or anything deemed critical of the monarchy. More information in our terms of use .
Please use our forum for more candid, lengthy, conversational and open discussion between one another.
Latest
Oldest
Please be aware that all comments will be looked at by the web moderating team and we reserve the right to approve or reject comments at our discretion.
What's your comment?
Tick here to also post this comment on your facebook wall
Please log in or sign up for an account to share your valuable thoughts to the world.
© 1996 - 2015 The Post Publishing PLC

