Top Stories in Local
Top Stories in US & World
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Food
Top Stories in Lifestyle
GOP will make Latino history but not how you think
Top Stories in Opinion
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Jobs
Top Stories in Homes
Page 1 of 1
Photo By Molly Riley/AP 
FILE - In this March 17, 2015 file photo, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky. speaks to reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington. McConnell and GOP presidential candidate Ted Cruz are among 57 Republicans in Congress who are calling on the Supreme Court to uphold state bans on same-sex marriage.
Photo By Nati Harnik/AP 
FILE - In this April 1, 2015 file photo Republican Presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas speaks in Sioux City, Iowa. Cruz, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky. are among 57 Republicans in Congress who are calling on the Supreme Court to uphold state bans on same-sex marriage.
Photo By Lynne Sladky/AP 
In this photo taken Feb. 5, 2015, Steve Visano, 54, places a ring on his partner's hand during a group wedding ceremony at a hotel in honor of Florida's ruling in favor of same-sex marriage equality, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky. and GOP presidential candidate Ted Cruz are among 57 Republicans in Congress who are calling on the Supreme Court to uphold state bans on same-sex marriage.
WASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz are among 57 Republicans in Congress who are calling on the Supreme Court to uphold state bans on same-sex marriage.
The congressional Republicans said in a brief filed at the high court Friday that the justices should not impose "a federally mandated redefinition of the ancient institution of marriage" nationwide. The Republicans said the court should let voters and their elected legislatures decide what to do about marriage.
The court will hear arguments on April 28 in cases from McConnell's home state of Kentucky, as well as Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee. Same-sex couples can marry in 37 states.
Last month, 7 Republicans joined 211 Democrats and independents in Congress in support of same-sex marriage nationwide.
News Slideshows
Spurs Nation (Spurs updates each weekday)
Breaking News (As it happens)
Best from Around the Web (Great stories from other sites)
E-mail:
© Copyright

