Your recent editorial on the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (that has apparently been tossed in the closet for this legislative session) brought out some interesting points.
I agree that a major problem in our society is the cheapening of the sexual relationship. God originally meant it to be shared as part of the exclusive bond between a husband and his wife, not reduced to the almost animalistic way it has become portrayed in the media, and now lived out in some circles. We are really reaping the rotten fruit of the “sexual revolution” of the 1960s and following years.
This is, I believe, the central issue facing us as regards the need for a Religious Freedom bill. When a state like Oregon can find Christian bakery owners “guilty” of discrimination for declining a wedding cake for a lesbian couple, all because the owners have long-held Christian teachings that it would violate, then something is dreadfully wrong.
At the center of this debate is not so much whether everyone believes homosexual behavior is a choice or not, but a very simple question: if you want to change the definition of marriage, then what is it going to be? If pre-Christian, Christian, and Muslim teachings that are thousands of years old are going to get summarily trampled on by the courts, then who is going to now define marriage? If marriage is not between a married man and woman only, then what is it?
How many does it take to make a “committed union?” What reason would a same-sex marriage advocate have to deny three men, or any combination, their “right” to live in a committed relationship (and receive their tax benefits) as well as the gay couple?
Polygamy was declared to be a violation of the human rights of women by the United Nations Human Rights Commission in 2000. Anybody out there want to be vocal for the “rights” of those desiring to practice polygamy in the United States? Not likely. It is illegal in all 50 states. I recently heard about a group that is advocating for legalizing incest among consenting adults. I’m certain that is also still illegal in all 50 states, and may it always be illegal.
And as you know, so was same-sex marriage just a few years ago. God’s way for marriage and the home is still the best way and the right way. Society has borne this out to be true for thousands of years now, and recent studies (including The Witherspoon Institute, 2008, Child Trends, 2002, and Journal of Marriage and Family, 2003) have as well. I will not be surprised at all if the Supreme Court strikes down the state laws that prohibit any alternative view of marriage to the traditional one.
I realize there are those who would want to call this “hate speech.” But can it be any more “hateful” than the sign I saw a picture of at the rally outside the capitol in Indianapolis on Saturday? It said, “God and Muhammed are not real, but hate is.” This debate is really about convictions and how to let people keep them without being forced to accept or approve of the lifestyles of others. I am thankful this Easter season for the God who loves us all and sent His Son to die for our sins on the cross, then rise from the dead in victory.
Sincerely,
No comments
Add Comment
Comment
E-Mail addresses will not be displayed and will only be used for E-Mail notifications.
Phone*
 
 
 
Wed, 04.01.2015 11:48
Morris was my old school friend who loved life and worked hard to improve his life.  He deserv [...]
Wed, 04.01.2015 11:07
I think the jail should have a basement wing of cells for Mr. Thomas and his kind which floods [...]
My condolences to Mr. Rawlings Family and friends.  Hopefully this-- "Habitual Violator"-- ha [...]
Wed, 04.01.2015 09:42
All children should be taught this way or close to it. I know educating the masses is a tall o [...]
Wed, 04.01.2015 08:39
“If you purchase a vehicle and have a bill of sale for $2,000, but the state says the value of [...]
Wed, 04.01.2015 08:24
Yep Georgia also has one of the highest illegal immigration issues in the country.  New Mexico [...]

