Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Heat wave in India kills more than 1,100; temperatures near 122 degrees
Intense heat has killed more than 1,100 people in India within days, causing roads to melt in New Delhi as temperatures neared 122 degrees.
CNN reports the southeastern state of Andhra Pradesh has seen 852 deaths in the heat wave. In the neighboring state of Telangana, another 266 people have died from the extreme temperatures.
Hospitals are on alert to treat victims of heatstroke, AFP says. Authorities advised people to stay indoors, as they are unsure when to the searing conditions will end.
P. Tulsi Rani, special commissioner for disaster management in Andhra Pradesh, says the state government has released public service announcements urging people not to go outside without a hat and to drink water, among other measures.
The heat is expected to continue for at least two more days before letting up, the meteorological department warns on Tuesday. However, the agency tells CNN that another hot spell could likely follow.
Alfred Innes, who lives in Telangana's capital of Hyderabad, says citizens have received little aid throughout the heat wave.
"I have personally witnessed the death of a three-year-old very close to where I stay and that was because of severe heat. It's very sad," he tells BBC . "The government isn't doing much, but as individuals we are trying our best."
Street vendor P. Gangamma tells AFP that the heat was making "her head pound," but she had to stay outside. The 65-year-old Hyderabad resident sells cigarettes at a high-traffic intersection.
"For the past three days hot wind has been coming in," she says. "I am a diabetes patient, but I have no husband and no sons, so I have to stay here and keep shop."
© 2015 Syracuse Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Syracuse Media Group
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

