KEVIN FREKIN, Associated Press
Updated 1:17 pm, Wednesday, April 8, 2015
FILE - In a Sept. 15, 2011 file photo, Rep. Lois Capps, D-Calif. speaks on Capitol Hill in Washington. Capps, who has served in Congress since 1998, says she will not seek another term. In a statement, Capps said it was time for her to return to the California community and family that she loves so much. Capps has represented a central California district. She had succeeded her late husband Walter in the House seat.        Photo: Jacquelyn Martin, AP
 
Page 1 of 1
WASHINGTON (AP) — Democratic Rep. Lois Capps , in her 10th term representing a congressional district along California's Central Coast, said Wednesday that she will not run for re-election.
In a statement, Capps said it was time for her to return to her home and her family. Capps succeeded her late husband, Walter, who died of a heart attack nine months into his first term in office.
A nurse, the 77-year-old Capps has served on the influential House Energy and Commerce Committee . Over the years, she has often focused on health issues with legislation that included increasing the availability of emergency defibrillators, expanding opportunities for people to get into nursing and improving Medicare coverage for patients suffering from Lou Gehrig 's disease.
Capps has led efforts among California Democrats to permanently ban new exploration and drilling for oil and gas along the California coast. She pointed to a 1969 oil spill near her hometown of Santa Barbara to explain her opposition, saying an oil spill could devastate local economies that rely on tourism.
"It's been a hard decision to make, for I have loved this job," Capps said, adding that "life moves on."
Capps' district became more competitive after an independent citizens panel in 2011 redrew congressional boundaries without regard to incumbency. The district includes all of Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo counties and part of Ventura County. Capps won in November by 3.8 percentage points over Republican Chris Mitchum , son of the late actor Robert Mitchum.
Mitchum got little financial help from the national GOP. The campaign arm for House Democrats spent about $170,000 during the campaign's closing days to provide Capps with some insurance against an upset.
The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee 's chairman issued a statement saying he was confident that voters will keep the seat in Democratic hands. Republicans said the district "instantly becomes a more likely pick up opportunity."
The number of registered Democratic voters in the district exceeds the number of registered Republican voters by about 3 percentage points.
Capps is the eighth House member and fifth Democrat to announce they will not seek re-election to the chamber next year. There are also three vacancies in the 435-member House.
Send comments to newmedia@seattlepi.com
  
 

