Conventioneer praises legislators for religious freedom decision
It seems that the decision of Nevada state lawmakers to drop bills dealing with religious freedom rights in the 2015 legislative session is currently paying dividends to the Silver State.Consumer Electronics Association CEO Gary Shapiro stated Nevada’s...
It seems that the decision of Nevada state lawmakers to drop bills dealing with religious freedom rights in the 2015 legislative session is currently paying dividends to the Silver State.
Consumer Electronics Association CEO Gary Shapiro stated Nevada’s elected leaders created the ideal decision not to proceed with Senate Bill 272 and Assembly Bill 277. The bills’ sponsors stated they would not proceed with the measures this session soon after the concern exploded in Indiana and Arkansas for the reason that of issues about possible impacts on the LGBT neighborhood.
Issues that such measures could hurt Nevada’s tourism and convention small business have been cited as reasons to drop the measures.
“Las Vegas is the world’s leading trade show location, bringing in additional than 5 million visitors and contributing $56 billion to state coffers in 2013 alone,” Shapiro mentioned in a statement. “Letting firms legally discriminate against the LGBT neighborhood would have been devastating to the state’s economy and worldwide reputation.
“As the owner and producer of the International CES — the largest annual occasion in the United States — we bring much more than 175,000 trade show attendees to Las Vegas and contribute over $210 million of nongaming income annually to the Nevada economy,” Shapiro stated. “Our achievement is due in fantastic portion to the uniquely effective company and social atmosphere offered by Las Vegas.
“Religious liberty is a core value but really should not be utilised as a cover for discrimination in the public sphere. There is no purpose why religious faith can not coexist with tolerance and diversity — that is the American way. Place simply, discrimination is morally incorrect and poor for business enterprise. We applaud Nevada’s leaders for saying no to discrimination and encourage all states to reject comparable legislation.”
Make contact with Sean Whaley at swhaley@reviewjournal.com or 775-687-3900.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

