Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
The hypocrisy of Tim Cook according to possible GOP presidential contender Carly Fiorina
Carly FiorinaLeada Gore | lgore@al.com 
Apple CEO and Alabama native Tim Cook had some harsh words for Indiana Gov. Mike Pence after he signed a new Religious Freedom Restoration Act, a measure that would allow companies to deny service based on religious grounds.
"America's business community recognized a long time ago that discrimination, in all its forms, is bad for business. At Apple, we are in business to empower and enrich our customers' lives," Cook wrote in a Washington Post op-ed. "We strive to do business in a way that is just and fair. That's why, on behalf of Apple, I'm standing up to oppose this new wave of legislation -- wherever it emerges. I'm writing in the hopes that many more will join this movement."
Not so fast, however. Now, former Hewlett-Packard chief Carly Fiorina said statements like those are "hypocrisy."
"When Tim Cook is upset about all the places that he does business because of the way they treat gays and women, he needs to withdraw from 90 percent of the markets that he's in, including China and Saudi Arabia," she said during an interview with the Wall Street Journal. "But I don't hear him being upset about that."
Pence has since signed a revision of the law that quieted some of the uproar. Fiorina herself said she saw "nothing objectionable" about the bill that proponents say protect civil liberties and critics describe as discriminatory against homosexuals.
As far as the presidency, Fiorina told WSJ the chances of her running are at 90 percent though her comments make it seem more like 100 percent.
"I am running for (the presidency) because I can win it and because I can do it," she said. "Who knows what the future will bring?"
© 2015 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Alabama Media Group
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

