 
GoLocalProv Powered by mPOINTS
 
Revenge Porn, The “Taylor Swift Tax” & Assisted Suicide - This Week at the State House
Bill banning ‘revenge porn’ passes Senate
Acknowledging the growing problem of having lewd and graphic photos and videos posted on the Internet with the intent to embarrass or harm another individual, the Senate has approved legislation to prohibit the posting of “revenge porn” without the consent of the individual depicted in the images. Sponsored by Sen. Erin P. Lynch (D-Warwick, Cranston), in cooperation with the Office of the Attorney General, the bill sets penalties for violators, beginning at a fine of $1,000 and/or a year in prison for a first offense, increasing to a fine of $3,000 and/or three years in prison for subsequent offenses. A similar bill in the House is sponsored by Rep. Grace Diaz (D-Providence).
Senate OKs bill targeting unauthorized computer access
The Senate has approved legislation to update the state’s computer crime laws. Introduced by Sen. Frank S. Lombardi (D-Cranston) in conjunction with the Office of the Attorney General, the legislation will criminalize the intentional access of confidential information on a computer or computer network without authorization or in excess of one’s authorization. It will carry a felony charge, with a fine of up to $5,000 and/or five years in prison. A companion House bill was introduced by Rep. Robert E. Craven (D-North Kingstown).
House, Senate finance committees hear budget articles for FY 2016
 
Senator Josh Miller
Senate passes bill for mental health, substance abuse treatment for prisoners
 
House passes Rep. Johnston bill stiffening fines for bus driver cell phone use
Rep. Raymond H. Johnston Jr.’s (D-Pawtucket) bill passed the full House of Representatives this week with a unanimous vote.  The bill clarifies the fines for unauthorized use of personal wireless devices on a school bus and clarifies the definition of “use” to prohibit the use of a wireless handset or personal wireless communication device other than hands-free to conform to federal guidelines.
Sen. Goldin, Rep. Ajello bills would allow terminally ill to end their lives
Sen. Gayle L. Goldin (D-Providence) has introduced the Lila Manfield Sapinsley Compassionate Care Act, which would provide a legal mechanism for suffering, terminally ill patients who decide to hasten their own death through medication prescribed by a physician. Rep. Edith H. Ajello (D-Providence) has sponsored identical legislation in the House, which was heard this week in the House Committee on Health, Education and Welfare.
Senate Majority Leader Dominick J. Ruggerio
Senate urges passage of federal Marketplace Fairness Act
In an effort to protect local businesses and in an attempt to collect the sales taxes the state believes it is owed, the Senate adopted a resolution calling on the U.S. Senate to pass the “Marketplace Fairness Act of 2015.” The federal act would require e-commerce businesses to collect sales tax from buyers in the 45 states that impose a sales tax. The resolution was introduced by Senate Majority Leader Dominick J. Ruggerio (D-Providence, North Providence).
Bill to regulate ‘body works’ spas heard in House committee
 
Rep. Maldonado bill would increase aid to libraries in distressed communities
Rep. Shelby Maldonado (D-Central Falls) has submitted legislation that would increase state aid to public libraries in distressed communities. Similar legislation was introduced in the Senate by Sen. Elizabeth A. Crowley (D-Central Falls, Pawtucket).
Rep. Filippi bill would repeal saltwater fishing license requirement
 
Related Articles
Last 7 days

