Written by Louis Weisberg, Staff writer
Thursday, 09 April 2015 13:19
Gov. Scott Walker’s GOP colleagues are balking at his budget, which axes programs and policies that enjoy strong bipartisan support. That leaves many state Republicans in a no-win situation: Those who give the budget blanket approval will alienate significant numbers of constituents, but those who speak out against it could face the punishment of a well-financed opponent in their next primary race — one paid for by Walker’s corporate backers.
As a result, Capitol watchers say not to expect the governor to win the kind of support he received from his party for his two prior budgets. “This budget is so bad for so many people, it’s hard to ignore,” said former Republican state Sen. Dale Schultz.
The budget’s political impact is already being seen in polls. In early March, Public Policy Polling took the first survey of the governor’s favorability rating since the budget was released. PPP found Walker at his lowest level of support since the massive 2011 protests in Madison over Act 10.
Walker’s overall approval stood at 43 percent, while his disapproval rate stood at 52 percent. In late October, the same Democratic-leaning poll found 49 percent approval for Walker’s job performance and 47 percent disapproval.
Among independents in the latest poll, Walker’s disapproval rate was 57 percent, compared with an approval rate of only 36 percent. Walker is pointing to his prior success with independent voters as a cornerstone of his presidential campaign.
Even right-wing media and pundits are calling Walker out for his recent actions, which they contend are motivated by his presidential aspirations rather than his duty to serve the people of Wisconsin. 
An editorial that appeared in the conservative Waukesha Freeman was downright caustic.
“Wisconsin conservatives have reached that moment of truth,” wrote former editor Pete Kennedy. “It’s time to accept the fact that Scott Walker is done with you. … I could go on, but you don’t need to hear it all. Deep down you know the truth: Walker is an opportunist who is stepping on this trivial state as he makes his way to the presidency. … But he’s not just stepping on the liberals who marched in circles around the Capitol, or signed the recall petition, or went to court over his emails. No, he’s grinding his heels into the conservatives — the people who fought for him, and trusted him. People like you.”
If Walker’s Wisconsin approval continues to decline, Republican leaders could be emboldened to vote their conscience on some of the impossible-to-defend budget items. They might be able to salvage the budget in part by turning Walker’s ambitions back on him, since it’s unlikely the governor wants to deal with apostasy in his own party while trying to sell GOP primary voters on his leadership skills.
Four categories in the budget are generating bipartisan heat against Walker, said Democratic state Rep. Chris Taylor. As part of the Assembly’s Joint Committee on Finance, she’s sat through listening sessions and public budget hearings throughout the state. The high turnout and intense anger people have expressed in Republican strongholds toward several items in the budget have surprised her.
targeting seniors
and the disabled
Perhaps the most widely opposed items in the budget involve health care cuts. 
Walker’s budget proposes a $15 million cut to SeniorCare, a Wisconsin program that helps more than 85,000 elderly people in the state pay for prescription drugs. Walker intends to push more of seniors’ pharmaceutical costs onto Medicare Part D, which is more expensive.
Currently, taxpayers save $90 million annually through SeniorCare’s direct negotiation with drug companies for lower costs. Enrollees pay a $30 annual fee, income-based deductibles and $5 co-pays for generic drugs. 
Another program Walker has placed on the chopping block is notable because eliminating it doesn’t save the state a dime, according to a nonpartisan fiscal analysis. It also will cost jobs.
Walker wants to cut $19 million from the program known as IRIS, an acronym for “Include, Respect, I Self-Direct.” IRIS allows the disabled to choose their own caregivers and support services within an allotted budget.
The financial cut to IRIS translates into 1 million fewer hours of personal care for those who need it the most. The budget also eliminates eight long-term care districts, which will cost about 3,000 jobs. United Healthcare, which lobbied for the provision, or another large insurance company, will replace the current grassroots regional managed care organizations that the disabled want to keep. Perhaps not coincidentally, Walker’s chief of staff is a former United Healthcare official, according to Taylor, who calls the plan “a big giveaway” to insurance companies.
Taylor said that a number of disabled people have wept at budget hearings as they begged lawmakers not to take away their caregivers and the right to maintain self-determination over their lives. 
Republicans and Democrats alike were upset to learn that Walker wrote both proposals into his budget without consulting or informing Kitty Rhoades, his Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services.
Political repercussions
Republicans have enacted restrictions on voters, including forcing them to show photo ID at the polls. Because seniors and the disabled are less likely to have driver’s licenses, they might not have the chance to hold lawmakers accountable for cuts to SeniorCare and IRIS come election time.
But GOP lawmakers could face a backlash from the children of seniors, many of whom might have to make up for the financial losses to their parents.
As for IRIS, if the quality of care plummets and enough people realize that changes to the popular program were not designed to save taxpayers money but rather to shift it to Walker’s supporters’ pockets, voters of both parties will rebel. Wisconsin voters have heard too many pay-to-play stories about Walker.
State Rep. Mark Spreitzer, D-Beloit, helped to collect more than 13,500 signatures in support of SeniorCare and presented them to Assembly Speaker Robin Vos, Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald, Joint Finance Committee members and Walker.
“Some of my colleagues across the aisle have recently expressed support for saving SeniorCare,” Spreitzer said in a statement. But, he added, Republican leaders are still open to burdening the program with enrollment caps and increasing fees, which will come out of the pockets of many poor people living on fixed incomes.
“Saving SeniorCare means leaving SeniorCare alone,” Spreitzer said. “Increasing annual premiums and co-pays or cutting off future enrollment simply means SeniorCare will suffer a slower death than in the governor’s proposal.”
Assault on education
Voss, who is said to be considering a gubernatorial bid in 2018, pronounced Walker’s proposed $300 million cut to the UW system dead on arrival. Other Republicans agree with Voss, saying the cut will do irreparable harm to the university and state economy.
The quality of the state’s education system is one of Wisconsin’s proudest achievements. The university system spins off technology that spurs new business development, and it helps create the kind of skilled workforce that would draw high-tech jobs to the state.During Walker’s tenure, education cuts have coincided with lagging job growth. The jobs that have been created under Walker are overwhelmingly low-paying, service-sector positions.
Walker also is calling for a freeze on state spending for public schools, along with a freeze on property taxes. The latter move leaves communities deprived of the ability to raise money to fund schools, except by voter referendum.
Walker’s most recent proposals come on top of his first budget’s cut to public schools, which were the nation’s largest. His opponents charge that the governor, who dropped out of college as a “C” student, is hostile toward educators.
But Walker said he’s holding school funding in check to fulfill his re-election promise to lower property taxes. Critics say the goal is farcical, since bills on a median-valued $151,000 home will go down only $5 in each of the next two years under Walker’s plan.
State Schools Superintendent Tony Evers said no increase in funding for schools amounts to a cut, because the money will not be sufficient to keep up with growing expenses. State Sen. Chris Larson, D–Milwaukee, said Walker’s educational funding proposal, coming on top of massive cuts in his first budget that were never fully restored, means that Wisconsin schools are no longer “losing fat, they’re losing muscles and organs.”
Other proposals by Walker will also hit schools hard. The governor wants to allow unlimited voucher schools in the state, let anyone with a college degree become a teacher without first studying pedagogy and eliminate sanctions on failing schools — something his fellow Republicans oppose strongly. 
Walker’s call for unlimited voucher schools is especially controversial. National groups have been pouring money into Wisconsin elections for years in an effort to promote private, for-profit voucher schools paid for by taxpayers. Koch-backed groups have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on school board races in places such as Milwaukee, Kenosha and Menomonee Falls in order to stack them with pro-voucher members.
Through the use of a complicated formula, when a student moves from a public school to a voucher school, the state moves the money it’s spending on that student’s education to the new school. That sends public school dollars to schools that aren’t held accountable for their performance in the same way public schools are.
Walker does want to create a charter school oversight board. But unlike traditional school boards, which elect members, the charter school board will be composed of political appointees. 
Many voucher schools are religious-affiliated, and critics say that providing them with taxpayer funding oversteps the traditional American boundary separating church and state. In addition, unlike public schools, voucher schools are not required to be handicap-accessible.
Larson estimates that Walker’s changes to education will cut state support of public schools by $98 million over the biennium by freezing local support for schools via the tax levy and funneling more public spending to private schools.
‘Running scared’
The across-the-board unpopularity of cutting education has Republicans “running scared,” Larson said. He said Republicans are trying to hammer out a more reasonable budget and he believes significant changes will be made to the education apportionment before it’s approved.
Former state Sen. Dale Schultz, R-Richland Center, was the last remaining openly moderate GOP legislator in Wisconsin before retiring after 32 years. He said there’s a lot of outrage in the western part of the state over neglected infrastructure and tax giveaways to the uber wealthy, as well as education and health care cuts, particularly Walker’s rejection of Medicare expansion. According to Schultz, people in western Wisconsin can see how Democratic policies created a thriving economy in nearby Minnesota while their own quality of life has suffered under Walker’s tea party policies.
Schultz consults with schools for free on how to make things work while their funding is under assault.
“I’m talking to school district (faculty and staff) now that have $4,000 deductibles on their insurance and $2,000 co-pays,” he said. “They have to completely defer maintenance on their buildings. Over the past three budgets, I think we’ve lost 3,000 educators. Some of the rural schools are growing again and none of the initiatives in the budget are helping them at all.”
Schultz has predicted, “The hangover from Walker will be spectacular.” Republicans have the chance to mitigate the danger and over the next two months Wisconsinites will see how far they’re willing to go to expose their necks to save their party — and their state.
National
DVD
Register to receive a pdf of each issue PRIOR to publication
Community Briefs
05.04.15
05.04.15
04.04.15
03.04.15
01.04.15
© 2015 WiG Publishing | 3956 N. Murray Ave., Milwaukee, WI 53211 | (414) 961-3240

