Recent
Recent
Recent
4 hours ago
HELENA — Many current and former Montana politicians from both political parties praised former Gov. Tim Babcock, who died Tuesday:
Here their comments in alphabetical order:
Former Secretary of State Bob Brown, a Republican: “He was a wise and kind man and a great mentor figure to many public servants in younger generations. He was particularly, for decades, the deeply respected uncle figure of the Montana Republican Party. I knew him well for 50 years and I will greatly miss him.”
Gov. Steve Bullock, a Democrat: “Whether in the Montana Capitol building or in the battlefields of Europe during Battle of the Bulge, Governor Babcock had a long and storied history of service to our state and nation. He was a pillar of politics in Montana for over 50 years, stepping up to lead our state when tragedy struck and helping to guide it through the years that followed. His presence will be missed, but his legacy and contributions to Montana will live on.”
Former Sen. Conrad Burns, a Republican: “He was one of the finest gentlemen and was my very good friend. He wrote the first check for me to run for the U.S. Senate back in ’88. I think he was a great governor, and I guess anybody that writes a check for your election is always a good friend.”
Sen. Steve Daines: “I first met Governor Babcock when I was the youngest delegate for Ronald Reagan at the 1984 Republican Convention. Governor Babcock always took time to encourage young leaders and served as a tremendous mentor not only for myself, but countless others. The governor has always been a tireless servant who dedicated his life to Montana and this country.”
Will Deschamps, chairman of the Montana Republican Party: “He was part of the Greatest Generation, a family man, a businessman and successful in all of those efforts before he ever got into politics. He and Betty both stayed involved in politics. He was the elder statesmen of the Republican Party for decades. up to recently. If someone was going to run for office, particularly state office, job one was to go talk to Gov. Babcock. That was a just a rite of passage.”
Former Rep. Rick Hill, a Republican: “He and Betty had kind of become the patriarch and monarch of the Republican Party. He was always there at every convention. He wrote letters, he organized events, he raised money for candidates. He was just untiring in support of the Republican Party. He was always there and always encouraging people. A number of people may not have run, including Governor Racicot, if he hadn’t recruited them. He always had sage advice.”
Former Gov. Judy Martz, a Republican: “I’ve known him since 1960. He’s a person that truly was, and to his dying breath, a gentleman. He is one the kindest, most soft-spoken respectful gentlemen that I have ever met. He never caused any friction between people. He was a statesman. He was a very wise man. He was a man of very few words, but they were meaningful. When he talked, he was like E.F. Hutton. Everybody listened.”
Former Gov. Marc Racicot, a Republican: “I have known Governor Babcock since I was 3 years old and he drove the team bus when my father was the basketball coach in Miles City. He and the Babcock family have been closely connected to our family throughout all of those years. Governor Babcock was a mentor, a friend, a man who cared deeply about the best interests of his state and nation and a public servant who gave the very best he had to give in his service to the people of Montana.”
Former Rep. Denny Rehberg: “He had a profound influence on a lot of people throughout America, not just in Montana. He was a kind gentleman. Though small in stature, he was a giant in everything in did.”
Former Gov. Brian Schweitzer, a Democrat: “There have been very few politicians in Montana history that went on to have as great an influence as senior statesmen as they did when they were in office as Tim and Betty Babcock did. My respect and affection grew for both Tim and Betty the longer I knew them.”
Sen. Jon Tester, a Democrat: “Montana has lost a great ambassador. Former Governor Babcock led this state with courage, wisdom and humility, and his legacy still stands today. His leadership, military service, and political conscience will forever be remembered and honored.”
Rep. Ryan Zinke, a Republican: “The people of Montana today lost a tireless public servant, World War II veteran, and neighbor. Though Tim Babcock was governor for seven years, his service to the people and the state of Montana spanned decades. He and the entire Babcock family represent the best of who we are as Montanans.”
Copyright 2015 Montana Standard. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Subscribe to MTStandard.com emails!
Be in the know! Stay plugged in! Sign up for Montana Standard emails in your inbox!
Email:
Contests and Promotions (Occasional)
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Follow the Montana Standard
Local Offers and Deals
The Metals Bank Building has turned this historic space into a…
Great Butte Businesses
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Weekly listing of medical professionals in southwest Montana.
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with mtstandard.com account:
Username & Password Required!

