2015-04-08 17:52:52
2015-04-08 20:00:05
2015-04-09 12:52:09
Previous Story
Next Story
Most Americans Side With The LGBT Community When It Comes To Business Owners' Religious Freedom Disputes
Reuters
Posted:
2 hours ago
Kristen Hooper, center, and Robert Loyd, right, hold a sign on the steps of the Arkansas state Capitol thanking Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson for calling for changes to a religious objection measure  in Little Rock, Ark., Wednesday, April 1, 2015. The measure faced a backlash from businesses and gay rights groups. (AP Photo/Danny Johnston) | ASSOCIATED PRESS
By Steve Holland
WASHINGTON, April 9 (Reuters) - A majority of Americans  believe businesses should not be allowed to refuse services  based on their religious beliefs in the wake of controversies in  Indiana and Arkansas over gay rights and religious freedom, a  Reuters/Ipsos poll found on Thursday.
The poll, conducted April 6 to 8, also found that 52 percent  of Americans support allowing same-sex couples to marry, far  more than the 32 percent who oppose it.
The survey results suggest a split over the issue between  Americans and some of the politicians who represent them.
Indiana's Republican governor, Mike Pence, triggered a  firestorm in his state this month by signing a law that would  allow businesses to refuse services to certain groups or people  based on their religious beliefs.
Gay rights activists saw the law as discriminatory and the  resulting backlash forced Indiana's state legislature to make  changes to the law.
Days later, Arkansas's Republican governor, Asa Hutchinson,  forced his state legislature to change a similar law in order to  avoid having it blow up into a controversy in his state.
The poll found solid opposition to allowing businesses to  refuse services or refuse to hire people or groups based on  religious beliefs.
Fifty-four percent said it was wrong for businesses to  refuse services, while 28 percent said they should have that  right. And 55 percent said businesses should not have the right  to refuse to hire certain people or groups based on the  employer's religious beliefs, while 27 percent said businesses  should have the right.
The Reuters-Ipsos poll found divisions among Americans on  where same-sex marriage laws should be made.
The largest grouping, 34 percent, believes same-sex marriage  laws should be made by the U.S. Supreme Court declaring a  nationwide constitutional right.
Another 22 percent said same-sex marriage laws should be  made at the state level by voter referendum. Eleven percent said  laws should be made by state legislators and 8 percent would  leave it up to Congress. The poll found 24 percent did not know  how best to handle it.
The poll said 55 percent want to see all states - even those  that do not permit same-sex marriages - recognize such unions  from states where same-sex marriage is legal.
For the survey, 892 people aged 18 years old and over were  interviewed online. The Reuters/Ipsos online poll was measured  using a credibility interval. It has a credibility interval of  plus or minus 3.7 percentage points.
To explore more of the poll: http://bit.ly/1aKHlSN     (Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Caren Bohan and Lisa  Shumaker)
Also on HuffPost:
of


"Star Trek" actor George Takei on Twitter: "Outraged over Indiana Freedom to Discriminate law, signed today. LGBTs aren't 2nd class citizens. #BoycottIndiana #Pence"
The band Wilco tweeted: "We're canceling our 5/7 show in Indianapolis. 'Indiana Religious Freedom Restoration Act' feels like thinly disguised legal discrimination." In another tweet it said: "Hope to get back to the Hoosier State someday soon, when this odious measure is repealed. Refunds available at point of purchase."
Indianapolis Mayor Greg Ballard signed an executive order reaffirming that groups doing business with the city must still abide by its human rights ordinance, which bars discrimination on the basis of categories that include sexual orientation and gender identity. "Our city thrives because we have welcomed and embraced diversity," he said. "RFRA threatens what thousands of people have spent decades building. And I won't allow that to happen without a fight."
"Because of Indiana's new law, later today I will sign an Executive Order regarding state-funded travel," Connecticut Gov. Dan Malloy tweeted. Another tweet added: "When new laws turn back the clock on progress, we can’t sit idly by. We are sending a message that discrimination won’t be tolerated."
Apple CEO Tim Cook tweeted: "Apple is open for everyone. We are deeply disappointed in Indiana's new law and calling on Arkansas Gov. to veto the similar #HB1228."
Former Florida Gov. and potential Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush said, "I think Gov. [Mike] Pence has done the right thing. I think once the facts are established, people aren’t going to see this as discriminatory at all."
San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee released a statement:  We stand united as San Franciscans to condemn Indiana’s new discriminatory law, and will work together to protect the civil rights of all Americans including lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals. Effective immediately, I am directing City Departments under my authority to bar any publicly-funded City employee travel to the State of Indiana that is not absolutely essential to public health and safety. San Francisco taxpayers will not subsidize legally-sanctioned discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people by the State of Indiana.
Oregon Gov. Kate Brown, who is openly bisexual, released a statement: Indiana’s new law offends me. No individual, regardless of where they live or whom they love, should suffer discrimination. I urge state leaders in Indiana to take swift action to prohibit discrimination and reverse the damaging impact of this law. Oregonians continually demonstrate a strong belief in fairness and equal treatment under the law. As recently as 2013, Oregon voters have defeated proposals similar to Indiana’s law, underscoring our shared values and rejecting discrimination. I encourage Oregonians to join me in expressing their concerns about this erosion of individual rights in Indiana and anywhere it may occur.
"The NCAA national office and our members are deeply committed to providing an inclusive environment for all our events," said NCAA President Mark Emmert. "We are especially concerned about how this legislation could affect our student-athletes and employees."
Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO of Salesforce.com, tweeted: "Today we are canceling all programs that require our customers/employees to travel to Indiana to face discrimination."
GOP presidential candidate and U.S. Sen.Ted Cruz (Texas) said in a statement: Governor Pence is holding the line to protect religious liberty in the Hoosier State. Indiana is giving voice to millions of courageous conservatives across this country who are deeply concerned about the ongoing attacks upon our personal liberties. I’m proud to stand with Mike, and I urge Americans to do the same.
Jason Collins, the first openly gay NBA player, tweeted: ".@GovPenceIN, is it going to be legal for someone to discriminate against me & others when we come to the #FinalFour?"
Yelp CEO Jeremy Stoppelman released a statement that read in part: "It is unconscionable to imagine that Yelp would create, maintain, or expand a significant business presence in any state that encouraged discrimination by businesses against our employees, or consumers at large... Yelp will make every effort to expand its corporate presence only in states that do not have these laws allowing for discrimination on the books."
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton tweeted: "Sad this new Indiana law can happen in America today. We shouldn't discriminate against ppl bc of who they love #LGBT"
Twitter's global public policy team account tweeted: "We’re disappointed to see state bills that enshrine discrimination. These bills are unjust and bad for business. We support #EqualityForAll."
Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay tweeted: "The Colts have always embraced inclusiveness, tolerance, and a diverse fan base.  We welcome ALL fans to Colts Nation.   ONE FAMILY!"
Adrian Swartout, owner and CEO of the Gen Con gaming convention, wrote a letter to Indiana's governor before he signed the bill, saying: "Gen Con proudly welcomes a diverse attendee base, made up of different ethnicities, cultures, beliefs, sexual orientations, gender identities, abilities, and socio-economic backgrounds. Legislation that could allow for refusal of service or discrimination against our attendees will have a direct negative impact on the state's economy, and will factor into our decision-making on hosting the convention in the state of Indiana in future years."
Seattle Mayor Ed Murray said, "Laws that say you can discriminate have no place in this country."
The American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, which is led by President Lee Saunders, said in a release: "AFSCME is pulling our Women's Conference out of Indiana this fall as a sign of our disgust and disappointment with Governor Pence's discriminatory law. We stand with the ever-growing number of corporations and associations who are taking similar action this week, and demanding fairness for all in the state of Indiana."
Angie's List CEO Bill Oesterle said he will not be moving forward with a $40 million expansion of the company's headquarters in Indianapolis. The company joined with eight other large companies headquartered in the state to write a letter to the governor and state GOP leaders. It read, in part: Regardless of the original intention of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, we are deeply concerned about the impact it is having on our employees and on the reputation of our state. All of our companies seek to promote fair, diverse and inclusive workplaces. Our employees must not feel unwelcome in the place where they work and live.
Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum (R) tweeted, "I stand with @mikepence4gov in defense of religious liberty and real tolerance."
NASCAR issued a statement: NASCAR is disappointed by the recent legislation passed in Indiana. We will not embrace nor participate in exclusion or intolerance. We are committed to diversity and inclusion within our sport and therefore will continue to welcome all competitors and fans at our events in the state of Indiana and anywhere else we race.
Washington, D.C., Mayor Muriel Bowser issued an order banning official D.C. government travel to Indiana. "Discrimination is intolerable wherever it exists. I stand with the LGBT community on #RFRA," she tweeted.
Denver Mayor Michael Hancock said in a statement: Denver is an inclusive city, and we take tremendous pride in that. Due to the actions taken by the State of Indiana, we will join with other cities across the nation in suspending the use of city funds for official business to Indiana. This law is just wrong, plain and simple, and we will not tacitly condone discrimination through the use of taxpayer dollars.
Nike President and CEO Mark Parker said in a statement:  NIKE proudly stands for inclusion for all. We believe laws should treat people equally and prevent discrimination. NIKE has led efforts alongside other businesses to defeat discriminatory laws in Oregon and opposes the new law in Indiana which is bad for our employees, bad for our consumers, bad for business and bad for society as a whole. We hope Indiana will quickly resolve this.
 Share
 Tweet
More:
Conversations
Options
Gay Voices
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Part of HuffPost Multicultural
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

