Search
Political News, Now.
5:09 pm ET
5:09 pm ET
By Nick Corasaniti
Photo
Jeb Bush ribbed Rick Perry, the former governor of Texas, during a speech to the N.R.A. on Friday. Credit Harrison Mcclary/Reuters
Nearly every potential Republican presidential contender will be speaking Friday on a single issue: gun rights.
As First Draft considered how best to parse their speeches at the National Rifle Association’s Leadership Forum in Nashville, we hit on a bullet-point approach. And yes, that sent us down a gun-pun rabbit hole. (Or was it into a foxhole?) Up next, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida.
NRA Rating: A+
Guns owned: None
Bull’s-Eye:The crowd erupted when Mr. Bush issued this zinger: “I have a message for the Obama administration,” Mr. Bush said. “Why don’t you focus more on keeping weapons out of the hands of Islamic terrorists and less on keeping weapons out of the hands of law abiding Americans.”
Misfire: He attacked the president for “out of control” debts and “bad deals” on foreign policy, but the audience kept their hands at their sides.
“Cold Dead Hands” Moment: Mr. Bush recalled the $5 million fine he created, as governor, to discourage the creation of gun registries “to make sure that there was I’m-not-kidding-teeth behind the law.”
Other Ammo: Ribbing Rick Perry, the former governor of Texas, who spoke right before him, Mr. Bush bragged that Florida had nearly twice as many concealed weapons permits as Texas.
Cross Hairs: Mr. Bush attacked Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. for saying his greatest regret was that he didn’t impose enough gun control. “If Eric Holder calls that a failure, I’ll take it as a win.”
Pump Action: He spoke so rapidly he barely left time for applause. He will have to slow down if he wants to whip up this kind of crowd in the future.
About First Draft
First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com .
Politics Newsletter
We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.

