World’s Oldest Woman From Arkansas Dies at 116
Posted by: Daliya Ghose in People April 7, 2015
Gertrude Weaver has passed away at the age of 116. She died on Monday in Arkansas five days after she was declared the world’s oldest woman.
Born on July 4, 1898, she died at 10:12 a.m. at the Silver Oaks Health and Rehabilitation in Camden, according to a spokeswoman who talked to KTHV-TV in Little Rock.
Weaver became the oldest woman in the world after the death of 117-year-old Misao Okawa from Japan.
She said a key to her longevity is to be kind and nice to people. “Treat people right and be nice to other people the way you want them to be nice to you,” she said.
As per a report published in Yahoo! , Camden Mayor Marie Trisollini revealed the key to long life.
“She was a really sweet lady. She was relatively perky and coherent when I talked with her before the party,” Trisollini said. “When you asked for advice on how to live a long life she would say, ‘Use a lot of skin moisturizer, treat everyone nice, love your neighbor and eat your own cooking. Don’t eat at fast food places.'”
Now, according to the Gerontology Research Group , Michigan’s Jeralean Talley is now the world’s oldest woman, followed closely by Susannah Mushatt Jones of New York City and Italy’s Emma Morano. Interestingly, all three ladies are 115.
Talley, who will turn 116 on May 23 and lives in Detroit, credits Lord for her longevity. “It’s the Lord. Everything is in his hands,” she said in an interview last year at the home she shares with her daughter, Thelma Holloway.
Talley is blessed with three grandchildren, 10 great-grandchildren and four great-great-grandchildren.
Still young at heart, Talley goes for fishing every year with a friend and his son.
Susannah Mushatt Jones will turn 116 on July 6, Morano on Nov 29.
March 18, 2015
March 17, 2015
April 7, 2015
The Morning News USA is rewriting the way news are delivered.
Twitter Feeds
DON'T GET LEFT BEHIND!
Don't skip the most important news. Subscribe to Morning News USA daily emails to get the news you need to know, every morning.
Sign up in seconds
Email Address *
No thanks, I’m not looking for daily news.

