Advertisement
Study: Parents in high elevations must be vigilant about reducing SIDS risks
Updated: 05/26/2015 10:34 PM |          Created: 05/26/2015 9:49 PM
By: Erica Zucco, KOB Eyewitness News 4
A new study in the medical journal Pediatrics says numbers show an increased risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) in places with higher elevations. Researchers say even with the potential increased risk, the absolute risk is still very low. But they say it's a call for people living in high altitudes to be vigilant about other factors that can lower the risk of SIDS.
"You never want to be that one statistic," doula and infant sleep instructor Sarah Page said. "You don't want it to be your baby. Since we know there are certain steps we can take to reduce the risk, let's make baby sleep safe, as safe as we can."
Page teaches new parents infant sleep strategies. She says to keep secondhand smoke out of the home and to keep the baby's sleep space clear, to name a few.
"We know that babies under six months should not sleep unattended," Page said. "They should always sleep in a room with a parent. Even naptime - they should be in a common area of the house, and the number one factor for SIDS is sleeping on your stomach. You want to put baby down on her back all the time."
Researchers say there's still work to be done to figure out exactly what causes SIDS and if it can be prevented. For now, they say parents should consult their doctors about reducing risks in their home.
New parents at any altitude should be following Department of Health guidelines for preventing SIDS, listed here: http://www.nichd.nih.gov/sts/Pages/default.aspx
KOB welcomes a lively and courteous discussion as long as you follow the rules of conduct set forth in our Terms of Use . Comments are not pre-screened before they post.  You agree that anything you post may be used, along with your name and profile picture, in accordance with our Privacy Policy and the license you have granted pursuant to our  Terms of Use.
Join Our Email List
Business Search
More News
Connect with Us
Most Read Stories
Top Stories
Advertisement
Community
A Hubbard Broadcasting Company

