It passed by only 854 votes.
SPRINGFIELD, Mo - -
Reaction on the most controversial vote on the Springfield ballot is mixed.
More from KSPR.com
Voters said "yes" to taking "sexual orientation and gender identity" out of the city's anti-discrimination ordinance.
People KSPR spoke with on both sides are somewhat undecided on who really "won"... if anyone.
Close to 30 thousand people voted on question 1. 51 percent voted for the repeal -- 49 against. That's only a difference of 854 votes.
"This city needs to recover from this. This is not a victory where we pound our chest and jump up and down,” explained Calvin Morrow, executive director of Christians Uniting for Political Action.
He's said he's happy about the repeal -- but said both sides were damaged by the issue.
"It was really a terrible thing that was done to the people of Springfield."
...the issue going to a vote.
"We were in peace, and we interacted with the LGBT community without any known problems."
So why push for the repeal? Morrow says it's because it took freedoms from businesses and churches.
"The instant centralization of people who were innocent and good people of Springfield was just something that we could not accept."
Even though the repeal was passed, people on the other side of the issue say it wasn't a total loss.
"I was really glad to see so many people hopeful and positive last night,” said Krista Moncado with GLOW.
Hopeful because 49 percent of voters said no to the repeal.
"We now have 14 thousand friends that most of us weren't really aware that we did have."
And Moncado said the battle isn't over.
"The Glow Center's been here since 1996. We're not going anywhere. We've been here supporting the community, raising awareness, advocating for the LGBT community in this area, and we'll continue to do that."
23 percent of voters in Greene County went to the polls on Tuesday. The county clerk -- Shane Schoeller -- says that's the highest number for a municipal election in recent memory. 
Copyright © 2015, KSPR News
Comments
The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. Please note by clicking on "Post" you acknowledge that you have read the Terms Of Service and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. 
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

