Emails reveal significant part for former Oregon governor's fiancee
SALEM, Ore. (AP) — The state of Oregon on Friday released 94,000 emails involving the fiancee of former Gov. John Kitzhaber, who resigned amid scandal earlier this year more than allegations that the former initial lady applied her connection with him to...
SALEM, Ore. (AP) — The state of Oregon on Friday released 94,000 emails involving the fiancee of former Gov. John Kitzhaber, who resigned amid scandal earlier this year more than allegations that the former initial lady applied her connection with him to land contracts for her business enterprise.
The emails show the pretty active part that Cylvia Hayes, Kitzhaber's longtime companion, played in his administration, as effectively as the tension that it from time to time raised with the governor's staff. Hayes routinely attended meetings, was copied on emails among senior staff and requested facts or clerical assistance from state staff.
Kitzhaber had downplayed her part in the administration, insisting she was not adviser or public official, which would need her to adhere to the ethics laws that he and his staff must uphold.
Kitzhaber, a Democrat, resigned in February, saying the influence-peddling allegations surrounding Hayes had come to be also a lot of a distraction. The FBI is investigating and has issued subpoenas for the emails and thousands of other records.
The emails released Friday are messages among Hayes and the official email accounts for staff members in Kitzhaber's office. Yet to be released are Hayes' interactions with officials in other state agencies, as effectively as emails from her personal accounts that discussed state enterprise. Hayes has filed a lawsuit seeking to block the release of her personal emails.
The emails show that Hayes was involved in policy meetings, and her input was at times sought on policy questions.
In a single instance from April 2011, shortly right after Kitzhaber took office, the governor's executive assistant sent an email to an aide assigned to Hayes. She had scheduled a meeting for two policy advisers, Kitzhaber and Hayes, but the governor had to leave early.
"They will discuss natural resource and jobs/economy-associated challenges," the assistant wrote. "The Governor will remain for 15 minutes but I anticipate the meeting to last 30 minutes."
A year later, Hayes was asked to weigh in on a bill ahead of the Legislature.
"Cheryl, Regarding bullet three of HB 4144, I would not like to see it removed," Hayes wrote. "That is counter to exactly where we are headed with the ten year power strategy and implementing carbon accounting."
Her relations with staff often triggered tensions. In December 2012, Hayes sent a note to all staff asking them to buy $one hundred tickets to a fundraiser. Kitzhaber's chief of staff swiftly replied: "Cylvia, can I ask you not to use folks' state e mail to do fundraising requests. It puts the group in an awkward position offered your part as Initial Lady."
Last year, Hayes complained to Kitzhaber's communications director, Nkenge Harmon-Johnson, that a speech she gave did not go as properly as it could have due to the fact a speechwriter hadn't completed a draft. The writer had shifted to operate on a late-scheduled speech for the governor.
Harmon-Johnson was later fired, in aspect due to the fact of her frosty relationship with the initial lady, according to her termination letter.
Hayes generally sought opportunities to travel to conferences or speak to audiences.
In December 2013, a spokeswoman for the Bend-LaPine Schools discovered Kitzhaber and Hayes would be in town and invited them to a fundraiser to support scholarships for immediately after-college sport and club applications. While the governor could not make it, Hayes said she would be "satisfied to attend and make a handful of short remarks about the Prosperity Initiative and how athletic scholarships helped me develop into a 1st generation college grad."
When the organizers mentioned there's no room for her to speak but they'd nevertheless appreciate her to come, she emailed her assistant: "please obtain a nice way to decline."
Shortly immediately after Hayes held a tearful news conference last October to acknowledge that she was paid to enter a fraudulent marriage in 1997 with a man searching for immigration advantages, she replied to an e mail from a European man she'd met at a conference.
___
Related Press writers Steven Dubois in Portland, Oregon Gene Johnson in Seattle Tami Abdollah and Robert Jablon in Los Angeles Olga R. Rodriguez in San Francisco and Sheila Kumar in Salem, Oregon contributed to this report.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
04 April 2015 Saturday 00:16
384 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.

