JON-MICHAEL SULLIVAN/FILE
A war memorial in Greenwood, S.C., divides veterans into "white" and "colored." A South Carolina law means the city needs legislative approval to install new plaques.
COLUMBIA — With the South Carolina Legislature apparently refusing to let Green­wood change its war memorial, which segregates the list of dead soldiers in two world wars by “white” and “colored,” the fight could be moving on to new territory in the courts.
Greenwood Mayor Wel­born Adams raised $20,000 of private money to put new plaques on the American Legion-owned memorial on city property on Main Street that would list the soldiers killed in World War I and World War II in alphabetical order. He was stunned when he found out earlier this year that the law passed in 2000 to move the Confederate flag off the State­house dome meant he would be breaking the law.
The law requires a two-thirds vote from the Legis­la­ture to relocate, remove or alter any war memorial. It was passed in large part to protect Confederate monuments during the flag debate 15 years ago.
Opponents of changing the plaque said the law is doing what it was supposed to do – prevent people from altering history without a true consensus.
Supporters say they aren’t changing history, just making sure black troops who died for their country aren’t diminished because of their race.
A bill was filed to get permission to make the change. It has gone nowhere. Sen. Lar­ry Martin, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Com­mit­tee, said Greenwood Coun­ty’s legislators are split over it, and he fears the proposal might lead to a larger debate about Confederate symbols.
“It’s an old wound that I’d really not rather open up again,” said Martin, R-Pickens.
The issue isn’t going away. Neither Welborn or Charles Schulze, a member of the executive committee of the Amer­ican Legion post that owns the monument, plan to end the effort to change it.
“I’m a bulldog. I’m going to see that thing through,” Schulze said. “We’re going to accomplish this goal, even if some people don’t like it.”
Welborn or Schulze wouldn’t say whether one of those steps might be a lawsuit.
Though the 2000 law, called the Heritage Act, hasn’t been challenged in court, the state attorney general has written at least five separate opinions on it in the 15 years since it passed.
The opinions – which don’t carry the weight of law – have all come to the same conclusion. The law is broad, covering even a memorial to troops who served on submarines during the Cold War, according to a 2012 opinion that said the Patriot’s Point museum near Charleston couldn’t move the memorial without lawmakers’ permission.
State attorneys in a 2001 opinion said the law gives governments and private owners of memorials permission for the protection and care of the monuments. That could come into play in a possible court challenge, because in an opinion in Feb­ruary, state attorneys wrote that enforcement against any violation of the Heritage Act would have to take place in the courts and be filed by a party with legal standing, such as the owner of the monument.
The Legislature has given permission to alter monuments before. In 2013, the House and Senate unanimously approved allowing North Augusta to move its world war memorials so the city could create a centralized place to honor veterans.
Schulze said he thinks Greenwood’s effort is struggling because lawmakers might try to include changing the name of Tillman Hall at Clemson University into the bill. Clemson has resisted a push to rename the building named in honor of U.S. Sen. Ben Tillman, a virulent segregationist and former governor.
Sen. Billy O’Dell, R-Greenwood, who represents about 11,000 of Greenwood County’s 70,000 people, said he is against changing the plaques on the 1929 memorial because he thinks it is changing history. But he thinks the brand new plaques sitting in Adams’ office could be used for a new memorial at Greenwood’s recently built veterans services building.
“Who’s going to pay for a new monument? I had to raise a lot of money to get this done,” Adams said. “The state can solve this very easily, if it doesn’t let all this other stuff get in the way.”

