Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Home Health Battle Ropes Workout Fast Becoming Popular In Fitness Gyms All Over USA
Battle Ropes Workout Fast Becoming Popular In Fitness Gyms All Over USA
Image credit: IndianWorkouts.com
Getting ourselves up to exercise after or even before a very stressful day is so painful to hear but creativity goes a long way now. The confines of our physical activities don’t have to being and end with boring gym equipment anymore because now, battle ropes is becoming a hit in many US gyms.
“It’s a little like running with the upper body. It’s not just using different muscles but training muscles in different ways.” explained spokesperson for the American Council on Exercise, Jonathan Ross.
Battle ropes is conducted like dancing but instead of just going around the place while doing simple routines, battle ropes have well– ropes that are very heavy and think; that actually resembles those types that you can see on shipyards.
It’s a tough workout with all the slamming, drumming, whipping and dragging anchored ropes that were mostly used for football training.
“The ropes show you how you’re moving. You see the physical manifestation of the body movement as you watch the ropes. If you do them well, your body is moving well.” Ross said.
The workout stresses out on coordination and posture, as well as strength, mobility and stability.
“It’s great core training. The abs, back, and glutes are all engaged. Obviously there’s toning to the upper body and it burns a lot of calories.” said senior vice president of programming, Donna Cyrus at Crunch Gym.
The ropes come in different sizes and lengths, depending on your condition and your fitness goals, you can progress from the easiest to the the longest ropes for challenge.
“The longer the rope, the more challenging because you have to generate more force. You want to see that move travel all the way down to that anchor point,” Ross stated.
The April 2015 Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research also looks Battle Ropes as a great cardio-exercise since it showed high heart rates with higher cardio-respiratory performance and sufficient energy expenditure.
So go to the nearest gym and inquire for it now!
Previous article
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Dailytimesgazette.com is the hub of news. We provide you with the latest happening news straight from the heart of the world.
Recent Articles

