Photo Credit: U.S. government
The Democratic campaign machine is starting to crank itself up at last, as former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton prepares to join the race for the White House.
Clinton has just signed a lease in downtown Brooklyn to open a campaign headquarters at 1 Pierrepont Plaza in Brooklyn Heights.
It’s a fancy location but not too fancy; hip but not snobby and also very accessible, located near 12 subway lines and as many bus lines.
A central spot,reachable by the 90 different ethnic groups that comprise the borough, New York City’s largest.
The campaign leased two floors of the building, which is located across the street from the offices of the U.S. Attorney of the Eastern District of NY, Politico reported this weekend.
The move also signifies that the Democratic contender for the presidential race is ready to announce: the Federal Election Commission allows 15 days between the start of a candidate’s official campaign activities and filing of paperwork for the 2016 run.
About the Author: Hana Levi Julian is a Middle East news analyst with a degree in Mass Communication and Journalism from Southern Connecticut State University. A past columnist with The Jewish Press and senior editor at Arutz 7, Ms. Julian has written for Babble.com, Chabad.org and other media outlets, in addition to her years working in broadcast journalism.
If you don't see your comment after publishing it, refresh the page.
Our comments section is intended for meaningful responses and debates in a civilized manner. We ask that you respect the fact that we are a religious Jewish website and avoid inappropriate language at all cost.
If you promote any foreign religions, gods or messiahs, lies about Israel, anti-Semitism, or advocate violence (except against terrorists), your permission to comment may be revoked.
You must log in to post a comment.
No Responses to “Hillary Clinton Leases Brooklyn Heights Office for Campaign HQ”
Current Top Story
on April 5, 2015 11:45 AM
on April 5, 2015 10:28 AM
on April 4, 2015 10:20 PM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More Articles from Hana Levi Julian
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No portion of this website may be copied without the express written permission of JewishPress.com.
Printed from: http://www.jewishpress.com/news/breaking-news/hillary-clinton-leases-brooklyn-heights-office-for-campaign-hq/2015/04/05/
Send to Email Address
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

