Haberkip HARRISBURG — Lawyer Basic Kathleen Kane&#39s chief of staff resigned on Friday, four months into the job. Blake Rutherford, who took the position in December, follows others who left crucial positions below the embattled state prosecutor. 4 aides quit final...
Kathleen Kane's chief of employees resigns soon after 4 months on the job
HARRISBURG — Lawyer Basic Kathleen Kane&#39s chief of staff resigned on Friday, four months into the job. Blake Rutherford, who took the position in December, follows others who left crucial positions below the embattled state prosecutor. 4 aides quit final...
HARRISBURG — Lawyer Basic Kathleen Kane&#39s chief of staff resigned on Friday, four months into the job.
Blake Rutherford, who took the position in December, follows others who left crucial positions below the embattled state prosecutor.
4 aides quit final year as a grand jury investigated Kane for allegedly leaking secret grand jury information and facts.
She has replaced 5 spokespeople given that 2013, such as one particular who quit in February.
Rutherford surprised staffers by emailing a notice that he had resigned.
“Today is my final day at OAG. While I will miss working alongside each and every of you, I am excited about what this new chapter holds for me and my household,” Rutherford wrote.
He will join Cozen O&#39Connor, a Philadelphia law firm, in governmental relations.
The statewide grand jury in Norristown, which met for eight months, suggested charging Kane with crimes connected to the leak of secret information and facts final year from a separate grand jury investigation in 2009, court documents show.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman will make a decision no matter if to prosecute. Kane denies any wrongdoing.
Kane&#39s outside lawyer, Lanny Davis, responding to editorials suggesting she must resign, blamed her critics for “whispering in reporters' ears, ... Cowards who won&#39t speak on the record.”
He stated Kane “is innocent of these politically motivated charges, as we are confident that will be the outcome.”
Rutherford thanked Kane for providing him an chance and told his colleagues, “It has been a privilege to serve.”
Carolyn Myers, Kane&#39s spokeswoman, issued a statement from Kane congratulating Rutherford on his new job.
“I assume anytime there&#39s a legal matter under way, men and women will be jittery,” said Bev Cigler, a political science professor at Penn State University&#39s Harrisburg campus. “They be concerned about their careers. It&#39s a all-natural factor that occurs. It&#39s economically rational.”
Although a person below investigation is innocent till proved guilty, Cigler said, “workers in the office get scared — that&#39s just the way it functions.”
Kane hired Rutherford and Aaron Sadler in a December “realignment” of her office. Both worked for the Arkansas attorney common. Sadler quit in February for a job in Louisiana.
Other public relations staffers who departed contain Ellen Melody, Dennis Fisher and Joe Peters.
Last year, important staffers left Kane&#39s office, such as former First Deputy Adrian King, former Senior Deputy Attorney Basic Laurel Brandstetter, former senior Deputy Attorney Common Linda Dale Hoffa, and David Tyler, her chief operations officer and legislative liaison.
Brad Bumsted is Trib Total Media&#39s state Capitol reporter. Attain him at 717-787-1405 or bbumsted@tribweb.com.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

