By Lori Weisberg 5:35 p.m.May 26, 2015Updated6:35 p.m.
⎙
-
The San Diego Union-Tribune building in Mission Valley — K.C. Alfred / San Diego Union-Tribune
Share Photo
✉


The San Diego Union-Tribune on Tuesday announced that it is laying off 178 of its 603 employees, with the bulk of the job losses affecting the newspaper’s printing and delivery operation.
The job reductions follow the closing of the sale last Thursday of the Union-Tribune to the parent company of the Los Angeles Times. The acquisition by the Tribune Publishing Co. will allow for the consolidation of the two newspapers’ printing operations, which will move from Mission Valley to Los Angeles, where the Times is printed daily, along with national publications delivered to San Diego County subscribers.
In all, 100 operations employees, consisting mostly of truck drivers, machinists, electricians, packagers and pressroom workers, were among those laid off Tuesday. Other large staff reductions occurred in circulation, where 29 employees were cut, and in advertising sales and finance, which together saw their departments reduced by 36.
Within the newsroom, nine of its 173 staff members were let go, almost all of them working for U-T TV.
“When the two companies announced that they were coming together, we said at the time there were going to be some synergies, and unfortunately for a lot of people today we’re realizing those synergies,” said Russ Newton, president and chief operating officer of The San Diego Union-Tribune. “We’re going to move production up to (Los Angeles) because we have press time available.”
Operations employees, including pressroom workers who are labor union members, will have the opportunity to apply for positions at the Los Angeles printing plant, Newton said.
The transition should take place within the next 30 days, and while there might be a very short-term disruption in delivery, the goal will be to deliver the paper by the current standard of 6 a.m. daily, Newton said.
“One of the key drivers for this move is having The San Diego Union-Tribune printed on much better press equipment than it currently is,” he said. “The paper is going to look better than it has. It will be a little bit better experience for the consumer.”
Editor Jeff Light explained that because the sale of the Union-Tribune did not include the TV studio and control room, layoffs of employees who worked in those areas were necessary.
“We do have high-level video capability in our organization, and I think you’ll see that going forward, that’s one of the things we’re good at,” Light said. “For readers of the newspaper, they will notice zero impact from today’s layoffs.”
Employees who were let go were given two months’ notice and a severance package based on their years of service.
Over the years, the Union-Tribune has undergone cutbacks as the newspaper industry contracted. The company’s staffing exceeded 1,000 before the paper was sold in 2009 by Copley Press Inc. to Platinum Equity, a Beverly Hills private equity firm.
Tribune Publishing, which owns nine other daily newspapers, including the Chicago Tribune and Baltimore Sun, paid $85 million for the Union-Tribune, a figure that does not include its Mission Valley headquarters.
Related
 










The San Diego Union-Tribune
Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to The San Diego Union-Tribune.
QUICK JYLLION SEARCHES:

