Kelley Kaiser
Recent Local News
Recent Lifestyles
Recent Sports News
Recent
Recent
Saved
With the end of the 105-day session nearing, state lawmakers worked to meet one of the last major deadlines — Tuesday’s cutoff for fiscal bills to pass out of committee in the opposite chamber.
Here of some of the bills that stalled, died or made it through.
Stalled:
Distracted driving: Senate Bill 5656 would have made it illegal to hold a phone while driving. Although holding a phone to talk while you drive has been outlawed since 2007, this bill would banned reading emails, checking Facebook status or using your phone’s map.
Despite passing the Senate, the bill failed to move past a March 25 House Transportation Committee hearing.
Payday loans: Companies such as Moneytree and CashNet USA will have to continue to do business under the state’s existing laws after Senate Bill 5899 missed the Tuesday cutoff. The bill failed to get a vote in a House committee hearing Monday.
The bill would have allowed lending companies to offer loans with longer terms but at higher interest rates. Now, individuals can borrow as much as $700 no more than eight times a year.
Alive:
E-cigarettes and vaping: The House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday passed a bill to add regulations to the state’s growing e-cigarette and vapor industry. House Bill 1645 also creates child-proof packaging requirements, bans sales to minors and requires vendors to be licensed.
A 95 percent excise tax that would have doubled the price was not part of the bill moved out of committee. The bill next moves to the floor for a vote.
Oil trains: The number of crude oil shipments by rail moving across the state continues to increase. Senate Bill 5057 wants to make those shipments safer by requiring railroad companies to create oil spill response plans. The bill also would increase per-barrel oil taxes, which would be used to help pay for cleanup of any oil spills.
The bill passed out the House Appropriations committee on Tuesday.
College tuition reductions
A Senate bill sponsored by Sen. John Braun, R-Centralia, aims to make it more affordable to attend college.
“It resets tuition at all of our public universities and ties it as a percentage of average state wage going into the future. That means it’s about a 25-30 percent reduction,” Braun said.
Braun said the bill will make getting an education at a state university more affordable and more accessible to everyone.
Under the bill, tuition rates would be allowed to increase only at the same rate that state wages grow.
“We don’t want it to grow at the crazy double-digit levels we saw prior to the last two years,” Braun said.
Passage of the bill won’t create a financial burden for the universities, though. The bill requires the Legislature to make higher education appropriations that are at least equal to the total state funds appropriated in the 2013-2015 biennium. In addition, any revenue loss resulting from the rate reductions will replace by the Legislature.
“We aren’t just taking money from the state universities. We backfill that money, dollar for dollar,” Braun said. “We’ve assured them we will keep them whole.’
Budget proposal
Discussions between the House and the Senate should be heating up next week as the two chambers try to agree on a two-year state budget.
State Rep. Dean Takko, D-Longview, said it won’t be an entirely uphill battle. While the two sides may have a long way to go on certain issues, such as taxes and transportation, he said there are areas everyone wants to see paid for.
“Basic education is one of those. For early childhood education, we put $222 million in our budget. That’s a really important thing to people here,” Takko said. “Of course the big one is we funded McCleary.”
The state Supreme Court’s McCleary decision requires the Legislature fully paid for K-12 education.
Takko is not optimistic the two houses can come to an agreement by April 26.
“If you really look at the differences side by side in the Senate and the House, I don’t know if we can get there,” Takko said.
Even issues such as paying for the McCleary decision, where the Senate and House proposals differ by only by a relatively small amount, present a challenge.
“It’s how you get the money to do it,” Takko said.
Shari Phiel covers courts, county government, environment and transportation. Contact her at 360-577-2510 or sphiel@tdn.com.
Copyright 2015 Longview Daily News. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
February 16, 2015 10:30 am
Come see us today at Freedom Market!
Want more?
Visit http://tdn.com/email-updates/signup for more ways to save money and stay connected with your community .
Participate
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with tdn.com account:
Username & Password Required!

