Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Top Indiana businesses promise LGBT advocacy efforts
Some of the top business names in Indiana have a collective message about the amendment to Indiana's embattled "religious freedom" law: This is only the first step toward achieving a more far-reaching goal of s
Post to Facebook
Top Indiana businesses promise LGBT advocacy efforts Some of the top business names in Indiana have a collective message about the amendment to Indiana's embattled "religious freedom" law: This is only the first step toward achieving a more far-reaching goal of s Check out this story on IndyStar.com: http://indy.st/1CaqI8E
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Kristine Guerra , kristine.guerra@indystar.com 6 a.m. EDT April 6, 2015
Their message: Revised RFRA law is only the first step toward achieving a more far-reaching goal of statewide civil rights protections for gays and lesbians.
The debate over Indiana’s Religious Freedom Restoration Act drew impassioned supporters and opponents.
(Photo: Robert Scheer/The Star file photo)
Some of the top business names in Indiana have a collective message about the amendment to Indiana's embattled "religious freedom"  law:
This is only the first step toward achieving a more far-reaching goal of statewide civil rights protections for gays and lesbians. And, they plan to get actively involved in that conversation.
"There's going to be a continuing dialogue. The debate has clearly shifted to broader discussions on LGBT rights," Salesforce Marketing Cloud CEO Scott McCorkle said Thursday, when Gov. Mike Pence signed into law the amendment to Indiana's Religious Freedom Restoration Act, or RFRA. "It was an important step today ... in that continuing journey."
McCorkle echoed similar messages from other major employers that have expressed concerns about the RFRA controversy's impact on employees, on the business community and on Indiana's reputation as a welcoming state.
Legislators scrambled to clarify the language of Indiana's RFRA, which critics feared would allow businesses to discriminate against gays and lesbians. Fixes to the law were hashed out in private meetings Wednesday involving  the state's top Republican lawmakers and its biggest corporate power brokers, including McCorkle and Indianapolis Motor Speedway CEO Mark Miles.
The amendment does not authorize a person, an organization or a business to refuse to provide goods, services, employment or housing to someone based on several factors, including sexual orientation and gender identity. This marks the first time that sexual orientation and gender identity are protected in state law in the context of anti-discrimination.
But legal experts say the amendment would offer anti-discrimination protections for gays and lesbians only in Marion County and 10 other Indiana communities where such protections already exist . In much of the state, discriminating against gays and lesbians is still not expressly prohibited because they are not considered a protected class under the Indiana Civil Rights Act.
What the original  RFRA law  and its revision will actually legally allow may be minimal, but the damage to the state's image could be indelible.
And this leads to the bigger questions.
Will a meaningful debate over the issue of civil rights protections for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender  community happen in Indiana? If so, what role will the state's biggest employers play, particularly the ones that  were instrumental in making the amendment happen?
There aren't clear-cut answers to these questions, at least not yet.
What seems certain is that statewide LGBT protections is a battle for another day, possibly next year. That means there's a fair amount of lag time until the next legislative session starts in January.
Andy Downs, director of the Mike Downs Center for Indiana Politics, said two things are likely to happen.
"Over that time period, the energy that exists right now could easily dissipate, which would mean the issue might disappear," Downs said. "But because of the constitutional amendment fight (to ban same-sex marriage) last year and RFRA fight this year, there is a network of individuals who have come together two years in a row and could possibly be mobilized next year."
Some prominent Indiana businesses have promised advocacy efforts on their part.
Jon Mills, spokesman for Cummins, said the Columbus-based engine company will actively push for a statewide nondiscrimination statute.
"Part of our core values is diversity and inclusion and demanding mutual respect," Mills said, adding that advocating for the cause would help the company attract and retain top talent.
Mike O'Connor, director of government affairs for Eli Lilly and Co., said the next step would be reaching out to people from both sides of the issue.
"Today we begin the healing process, and we believe part of that healing process is a discussion about how we get to broader rights for everybody," O'Connor said. "We believe that before we get to demanding that be in place in law ... we have to have conversations among people who have strongly different points of view. We have to have that discussion in a thoughtful way."
Cummins and Lilly are two of nine major Indiana companies whose CEOs sent a letter to Pence and legislative leaders , asking them to revise  RFRA so that it can't be used to justify discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. One other company is Angie's List, which has rejected the RFRA amendment . Its CEO, Bill Oesterle, called the revision "insufficient." Others, including Cummins and Lilly, as well as Salesforce, supported the amendment.
Downs said public statements from major Indiana employers supporting statewide LGBT protections is now a tool available for gay and civil rights activists.
"Those who want to push for broader legislation now can bring these statements to bring these individuals to do that," Downs said, adding that a number of these businesses have long-term interests in pushing for equal protection.
What also remains murky is which lawmaker or lawmakers will shepherd that cause next session, Downs said, and whether they will have enough power within their caucus and the political skills to push through something so controversial and hotly debated.
"This is one of those things that could appear simple," Downs said, "but the politics of it, the social element of it, the political skills to get it through will need to be that much greater."
Star reporters Jeff Swiatek and Tom LoBianco contributed to this story.
Call Star reporter Kristine Guerra at (317) 444-6209. Follow her on Twitter: @kristine_guerra .
More Stories

