Schieffer has hosted the Sunday morning program for 24 years
Very last Up-to-date Apr 9, 2015 7:forty two AM EDT
Bob Schieffer, the anchor of CBS News' "Deal with the Nation," declared Wednesday that he will retire this summer time following much more than 50 yrs of working in journalism.
Participate in Video clip CBSN
Bob Schieffer announces retirement
Longtime CBS Information anchor and commentator Bob Schieffer announces his retirement as host of "Confront The Country" for the duration of a speech at Texas Christian U...
Schieffer, who is 78, has been with CBS Information for forty six several years. 2015 marked his 24th 12 months anchoring "Encounter the Nation," which celebrated its 60th anniversary last calendar year.
"Because that was the place it all begun for me, I required this to be the area, and I preferred you all to be the very first to know that this summer time I am going to retire," he mentioned at the annual Schieffer Symposium at Texas Christian University, his alma mater.
"It can be been a good adventure," Schieffer mentioned. "You know, I'm just one of the luckiest men and women in the world simply because as a little boy, as a younger reporter, I often needed to be a journalist, and I bought to do that. And not a lot of people today get to do that, and I could not have asked for a greater daily life or one thing that was more exciting and much more satisfying."
Enjoy Online video Deal with The Nation
President Obama talks ISIS, immigration, and midterm elections
President Obama's complete interview with "Face the Country" host Bob Schieffer.
He has interviewed each individual president given that Richard Nixon as well as most of all those who sought the workplace. Schieffer most just lately interviewed President Obama previous November, his third job interview with the president on "Experience the Nation."
Schieffer also moderated 3 debates for the Presidential Fee on Debates in 2004, 2008 and 2012.
"He's been an inspiration and a mentor to so quite a few colleagues-- and frankly, to me.  You could see at TCU tonight how that inspiration extends to a wider group of reporters and editors and lecturers," stated CBS Information President David Rhodes.
Prior to joining CBS in 1969, Schieffer was a reporter at the Fort Really worth Star-Telegram wherever he was the first reporter from a Texas newspaper to report from Vietnam.
Participate in Online video Deal with The Nation
Bob Schieffer: Why I adore moderating &ldquoFace the Country”
Bob Schieffer seems again at sixty years of interviews with newsmakers on CBS Information’ &ldquoFace the Country”
Schieffer has gained virtually each and every award in broadcast journalism, like eight Emmys, the overseas Push Club Award, the Paul White Award introduced by the Television set Information Administrators Affiliation, the Edward R. Murrow Award provided by Murrow's alma mater Washington State University.
In 2008, Schieffer was named a residing legend by the Library of Congress. In 2013, he was inducted into the National Academy of Arts and Sciences Corridor of Fame alongside with CBS Chairman and CEO Leslie Moonves, actor Ron Howard, sportscaster Al Michaels and writer/producer Dick Wolf.
Schieffer also received the Walter Cronkite Award for Excellence from the Cronkite Faculty of Journalism at Arizona State University and the Edward R. Murrow Award for Creating from the Radio Television Electronic Information Affiliation (RTDNA) in the Community Radio and Tv classification for a CBS Radio News commentary about "the ghost of Congress foreseeable future."
15 Pics
Veteran CBS News anchor Bob Schieffer announces retirement
Just after 46 several years with CBS Information, Main Washington Correspondent Bob Schieffer introduced his retirement Wednesday evening at the Schieffer Symposium ...
"Experience the Nation" was the optimum rated Sunday speak demonstrate in 2014 for the third consecutive 12 months and the broadcast won an Emmy for its clearly show masking the 50th anniversary of JFK's assassination in 2013.
In his announcement Wednesday, Schieffer thanked many people who aided progress his profession: Phil Document, an editor at the Star-Telegram the paper's editor, Jack Butler and CBS colleagues Monthly bill Compact, Richard Salant, Sean McManus, Jeff Fager, Moonves and Rhodes. He called "Confront the Nation" Executive Producer Mary Hager his "equivalent associate" in his profession and the human being to whom he feels the most indebted.
"I've hardly ever considered significantly in the self-built gentleman idea I assume we all want a small assist and I had a ton of aid together the way," he claimed.
Schieffer stated that a person of the things guiding his final decision to retire now is his delight in CBS News' recent footing.
Play Video clip Politics
Bob Schieffer points out what retains him heading
In an job interview with Jeff Glor, "Facial area The Country" anchor Bob Schieffer clarifies his beginnings as a journalist and delivers insight into how the me...
"We, like any significant business, we have experienced our ups and downs we're on a substantial correct now," he stated, praising the motivation to tough news and overseas reporting throughout the community. "Face the Nation, I think, is better than it has at any time been."
In 2005, TCU named its journalism faculty in his honor and in 2013 named the college in which the journalism school is situated the Bob Schieffer University of Communication. In his speech, he stated it was the honor that has meant the most to him.
Schieffer is just one of the few reporters in Washington to have protected all four of the key beats: the Pentagon, the White Residence, Congress and the Point out Section. He became the network's chief Washington correspondent in 1982 and was named the anchor and moderator of "Encounter the Country", CBS News' Sunday public affairs broadcast, in 1991.
Schieffer anchored the Saturday edition of the "CBS Evening Information" for 23 a long time. In March 2005, with the departure of Dan Somewhat, Schieffer served as interim anchor of "The CBS Night News," until eventually August 2006 - a time period that noticed a sizeable boost in rankings.
Schieffer has prepared four books: The New York Situations bestsellers "This Just in" and "Bob Schieffer's The us" as effectively as "Facial area The Nation: My Favourite Tales from the Initially fifty Yrs of the Award-winning News Broadcast" and "The Performing President."
He was born in Austin, Texas and grew up in Fort Worthy of the place he graduated from North Side Higher School and Texas Christian University. He served three years in the U.S. Air Power.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers
Ad Soyad:
 
UYARI: Küfür, hakaret, rencide edici cümleler veya imalar, inançlara saldırı içeren, imla kuralları ile yazılmamış, Türkçe karakter kullanılmayan ve tamamı büyük harflerle yazılmış yorumlar onaylanmamaktadır. Ayrıca suç teşkil edecek hakaret içerikli yorumlar hakkında muhatapları tarafından dava açılabilmektedir.
Breaking News Headlines
Related Breaking News

