Recent
Recent
Recent
Latest around the region
CHIEF JOSEPH PASS — Over the last six or seven years, the number of cross-country skiers finding their way to Chief Joseph Pass Ski Area has b…
Recent
Saved
HELENA – In a rare display of raw political power at the Montana Legislature, all House Democrats and 11 House Republicans on Wednesday muscled a Medicaid expansion bill to the House floor, where it will be debated and voted on Thursday.
Through a half-dozen votes spread over two hours, the bipartisan voting bloc repeatedly formed a 52-vote majority to overturn actions of House Speaker Austin Knudsen, R-Culbertson, and force the decisive vote that removed Senate Bill 405 from the House committee that voted Tuesday to kill the measure.
House Minority Leader Chuck Hunter, D-Helena, led the effort, saying it’s time for the House to have a “good debate (on this bill) and vote it up or down.”
SB405 would accept hundreds of millions of federal dollars to expand Medicaid health coverage to thousands of low-income Montanans, starting next year. It will be debated on the House floor Thursday evening and face a floor vote before possibly advancing to a final vote later this week.
SB405, sponsored by Sen. Ed Buttrey, R-Great Falls, would extend Medicaid coverage to Montanans earning up 138 percent of the federal poverty level, about $16,200 a year for a single person. It’s estimated that 27,000 people would sign up in the first year and as many as 45,000 by 2019.
The federal government would cover the bulk of the cost, but eligible participants also would have to pay a premium of 2 percent of their income.
Rep. Rob Cook, R-Conrad – one of the 11 Republicans voting to bring the bill to the floor – said he’ll be presenting it on the floor Thursday evening.
Cook said he’s supporting it because it will bring federal tax money paid by Montanans back to the state to cover millions of dollars’ worth of health care that is written off by hospitals and other providers.
***
House Republican leadership opposes the Medicaid bill as a needless, costly expansion of a welfare program and additional implementation of “Obamacare” in Montana. Federal funds pay 100 percent of the expansion cost through 2016, but then gradually reduce its share to 90 percent by 2020.
On Tuesday, Republicans on the House Human Services Committee voted to give SB405 a “do-not-pass” recommendation, which kills the bill unless at least three-fifths of the House votes otherwise.
But Hunter said Tuesday the committee vote violated an agreement that allowed Democrats to designate certain bills as needing only 51 votes to remove them from a committee, rather than 60 votes.
Knudsen ruled Hunter’s objection as “out of order” Tuesday and the House Rules Committee upheld Knudsen on Wednesday, but on a series of 52-48 votes, the House overruled Knudsen and said the 51-vote rule applied to SB405.
The House then voted 52-48 to remove the bill from the House Human Services Committee and place it on the floor Thursday.
Opponents of SB405 strenuously objected to the maneuvers on Wednesday. Rep. Art Wittich, R-Bozeman, the chair of the House Human Services Committee, said the 51-vote rule couldn’t apply because the bill was no longer technically in his committee.
“By the motion allowing 51 percent of this body to affect the order of this body, we now have the law of the jungle,” Wittich said.
Knudsen also made a personal appeal to House Republicans, before the voting began Wednesday, to uphold his decisions on the rules, calling Wednesday “arguably one of the biggest days of the session.”
“There were no games played; there were no rules broken,” he said. “The rules were followed. … What I am here for, is to implore you not to throw the rules out.”
In addition to Cook, Republicans voting with Democrats to move SB405 to the floor were Reps. Christy Clark of Choteau, Roy Hollandsworth of Brady, Frank Garner of Kalispell, Geraldine Custer of Forsyth, Tom Berry of Roundup, Tom Richmond of Billings, Steve Fitzpatrick of Great Falls, Ray Shaw of Sheridan, Jeff Welborn of Dillon and Dan Salomon of Ronan.
Cook said later while much will be made of the split in the Republican Party over Medicaid expansion, lawmakers on both sides of the issue think they’re doing the right thing for the state.
“When you look at the (voting) board today, 48 people thought they were doing the right thing and 52 people thought they were doing the right thing,” he said. “So we should keep that in mind as we move forward.”
Copyright 2015 missoulian.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
- 31 minutes ago
Is there anybody out there who doesn't understand just what this is really all about?  In a word:  Obama.  In a longer word:  Obamacare.  And what do they have in common?  A number of Republicans would put their hatred in front of some tens of thousands of their fellow Montanan's health care needs.  Disgusting.  This can't be Montana.
- 2 hours ago
Wow, what a day! And they even tried to adjourn the session! I sure hope we can get the votes to expand this and help some needy families.
I'd also like to point out that Missoula's Kimberly Dudik is right there, in pink. And would anyone happen to know the record for rules huddles in one session?
Civil Dialogue Policy  for Commenting on Missoulian.com
We provide this community forum for readers to exchange  ideas and opinions on the news of the day. Passionate views, pointed criticism  and critical thinking are welcome. Comments can only be submitted by registered  users. By posting comments on our site, you are agreeing to the following terms:
Commentary and photos submitted to the Missoulian (Missoulian.com)  may be published or distributed in print, electronically or other forms.  Opinions expressed in Missoulian.com's comments reflect the opinions of the  author, and are not necessarily the opinions of the Missoulian or its parent  company. See the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy for more information.
Our guidelines prohibit the solicitation of products or  services, the impersonation of another site user, threatening or harassing  postings and the use of vulgar, abusive, obscene or sexually oriented language,  defamatory or illegal material. You may not post content that degrades others  on the basis of gender, race, class, ethnicity, national origin, religion,  sexual orientation, disability or other classification. It's fine to criticize  ideas, but ad hominem attacks on other site users are prohibited. Users who  violate those standards may lose their privileges on missoulian.com .
You may not post copyrighted material from another  publication. (Link to it instead, using a headline or very brief excerpt.)
No short policy such as this can spell out all possible  instances of material or behavior that we might deem to be a violation of our  publishing standards, and we reserve the right to remove any material posted to  the site.
Add Comment
What’s your favorite thing about April in western Montana?
Weather ‘mood swings’
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with missoulian.com account:
Username & Password Required!

