Former Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger slams colleagues who choose ‘politics of division’ after legislation sparks backlash
Your email address
Note: We do not store your email address(es) but your IP address will be logged to prevent abuse of this feature. Please read our Legal Terms & Policies
Arnold Schwarzenegger, the former Governor of California, has blasted fellow republicans who are ‘losing touch’ with voters after a law in Indiana was passed which many claim legalises anti-gay discrimination.
The Terminator said he was ‘incredibly concerned’ over the laws passed in Indiana, which he claims ‘fly in the face of equality and freedom’.
‘As a Republican, I’m furious’, he wrote in a column for the Washington Pos t, in which he heavily criticises fellow party members who ‘choose politics of division’.
Schwarzenegger in The Terminator The piece is a response to what’s become known as the Indiana Law, which many outspoken critics claim has legalised discrimination against gay and lesbian Americans in the state.
Schwarzenegger has now joined a long list of celebrity opponents, also including Democrat Hillary Clinton, Miley Cyrus, Ricky Gervais, and Tim Cook, the CEO of Apple.
Gay people aren't privileged. Privilege would be not paying taxes like churches don't. #MemoriesPizza #BoycottIndiana pic.twitter.com/ml5eEjcz2W
Schwarzenegger writes: ‘Now I’d like to speak to some of my fellow Republicans. I know plenty of Republicans who are sensible and driven to solve problems for America. They believe in Reagan’s vision of a big tent where everyone is welcome. This message isn’t for them.
‘It is for Republicans who choose the politics of division over policies that improve the lives of all of us. It is for Republicans who have decided to neglect the next generation of voters. It is for Republicans who are fighting for laws that fly in the face of equality and freedom.
‘If we want our party to grow and last, we must be focused on real solutions to problems Americans are facing.’
 
From the mouth of an actual Founder... We don't have to guess what they meant by religious freedom! #BoycottIndiana pic.twitter.com/kAmVY3rLo7
 
 
He added: ‘Maybe that’s a coincidence, but there is no question that our party is losing touch with our voters, especially with the younger ones who are growing the registration rolls.
‘I know what you’re thinking: “You Californians are eccentric. My state is different. That’s not going to happen here.”
‘You’re wrong. All you have to do is look at the response to Indiana’s law on Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, or pretty much wherever young people congregate and discuss what is important to them.
‘Both sides of the Indiana debate used Twitter to voice their support, and the result couldn’t be clearer. According to Zignal Labs, as of Wednesday night, #StandWithIndiana had been tweeted 5,571 times. Meanwhile,#BoycottIndiana was tweeted 430,728 times.’
#BoycottIndiana RFRA law may cost state over $256 m --- WAY TO GO @GovPenceIN & Racist Klan http://t.co/inM65a4fnL pic.twitter.com/1VZqb5c9dZ
But the law does have some support. Memories Pizza in Walkerton - a town in Indiana with eight restaurants and seven churches - describes itself a 'a Christian establishment' and the owners, the O'Connor family, have openly claimed their religious beliefs give them the right to deny service to lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders.
'We're not discriminating against anyone, that's just our belief and anyone has the right to believe in anything,' Crystal O'Connor told the local ABC station, going on to say that they would refuse to cater for a gay wedding.
The restaurant was forced to close after the outcry caused by the comments, but sympathisers have now raised $500,000 for the company in a funding campaign which initially intended to raise just £25,000 to help them pay the bills while they were forced to remain closed.
Indiana’s religious freedom law was signed by Governor Mike Pence last week, but changes have already been drafted after heavy opposition.
Indiana Governor Mike Pence speaking to the media in Indianapolis on Tuesday
New clarifications are to be added saying that it won’t give anyone the right to refuse service, employment or housing based on sexual orientation or gender identity, the Wall Street Journal reported.
It also includes language that prevents the law from providing a legal defence in a civil case over the refusal of service based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Both churches and religious organisations are exempt from these restrictions.
These changes were made at the request of Governor Pence, who was on the receiving end of a severe backlash from business leaders, out-of-state politicians and civic groups after he signed the original bill.
Mike Pence has defended the legislation, writing in the Wall Street Journal that it had been ‘grossly misconstrued’, adding ‘I abhor discrimination’.
Arkansas has also passed the amended law , after Republican Governor Asa Hutchinson refused to sign the original, urging lawmakers to think again.
Schwarzenegger added: ‘As a party, we need to take a similarly realistic look. Indiana’s politicians clearly didn’t expect the response the law received, but it is heartening to see that they’ve taken steps in the right direction, just as it is reassuring to see that Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas listened to the outrage over Indiana and decided to veto a similar law. But I want to be absolutely certain that all of my fellow Republicans everywhere got the message. What happened in Indiana should be a teachable moment for us.’
News
Arts and Entertainment
Sport
FOOTBALL
News
News
americas
News
News
FOOTBALL
Sport
News
1
SPONSORED FEATURES
 
General Election TV debates
Yemen crisis
What will Saudi Arabia do when – not if – things go wrong in their war with the Shia Houthi rebels, asks Robert Fisk
A pilot shares his passion for flying
It has been hard to feel positive about air travel in recent days. But while the horror of Germanwings Flight 9525 will stay with us, to fear flying is to miss one of the wonders of the modern age
Songs of praise: Christian Contemporary Music
Their music sells by the bucketload, their tours are huge and, in the US, they're more popular than jazz and blues put together. So why don't CCM acts ever make it into the mainstream?
Brighton newspaper inspires art exhibition
The Argus' billboards have long had a cult following. Jack Mills meets the man behind the top lines
10 best men's T-shirts
From wardrobe staples to head-turning tees, we try on this season’s tops for size
Stephen Peters: 'I just gave Trott the tools to play again'
The spine of England’s batting is back for the West Indies tour. Here, the famous sports psychiatrist reveals how he has helped to change the player's mind
Superstitious West Brom manager won't relax until safety is secured
Tony Pulis says the club will need a reboot... once they avoid the drop
Premier League dreams
Eight into three just won't go in the Championship's race for promotion to the top-flight
Frank Warren column
Kell Brook vs Amir Khan? I think we'll have to wait for this one...
War with Isis
Iraq declares victory in the battle for Tikrit - but militants make make ominous advances in neighbouring Syria
A spring in your step?
Scientists develop mechanical leg brace to help take a load off
Peter Ackroyd on Alfred Hitchcock
Ackroyd has devoted his literary career to chronicling the capital and its characters. He tells John Walsh why he chose the master of suspense as his latest subject
Ryan Reynolds branches out in Woman in Gold
For every box-office smash in Ryan Reynolds' Hollywood career, there's always been a misconceived let-down. It's time for a rethink and a reboot, the actor tells James Mottram

