Lincoln's assassination
Hulton Archive, Getty Images
An illustration depicts the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by John Wilkes Booth at Ford's Theatre in 1865.
An illustration depicts the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by John Wilkes Booth at Ford's Theatre in 1865. (Hulton Archive, Getty Images)
Lincoln's assassination shook the nation to its core and brought Chicago to its knees.
The Tribune in 1865: Lincoln's assassination was a deed so wicked its only comparison was Christ's crucifixion
When President Abraham Lincoln took his wife, Mary, on a carriage ride April 14, 1865, the first lady said she could scarcely remember seeing him so lighthearted as he was on that Good Friday . "We must both be more cheerful in the future," Lincoln replied, recalling the constant misery brought them by the Civil War and the death of their 11-year-old son Willie three years earlier.
Events had been looking up. Five days earlier, on April 9, Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee had surrendered. On April 11, Lincoln gave a speech at the White House that talked of reconstruction and a new constitution in Louisiana. He also for the first time publicly supported voting rights for black men, if only for the "very intelligent, and on those who served our cause as soldiers."
That infuriated at least one man listening in person to the president's comments. "That is the last speech he will make," vowed John Wilkes Booth.
Three days later, Booth made good on that prediction. While the Lincolns were enjoying their afternoon carriage ride, Booth slipped into Ford's Theatre, where the knew the first family would be that evening. The management had placed newspaper ads announcing that the Lincolns would be attending a performance of a popular comedy, "Our American Cousin." Himself an actor who had recently appeared there, Booth knew the theater's layout, and he is thought to have drilled a small peephole in the door to the box where the presidential party would be seated.
A die-hard Confederate supporter, Booth had concocted previous schemes to murder or kidnap Lincoln. This one worked, thanks to a chance confluence of events: Lincoln's regular bodyguard had the day off, and his police replacement left his post outside the presidential box for a seat in the audience. Unimpeded, Booth peered through the peephole and, seeing his prey, he rushed into the box, a gun in one hand, a dagger in the other. What happened next was described by an eyewitness, an Army officer whose account was printed in the Tribune a few days later:
"The house was perfectly still, the large audience listening to the dialogue between 'Florence Trencher' and 'Mary Meredith' when the sharp report of a pistol rang through the house," said Capt. Theodore McGowan. "A moment after, a man leaped from front of the box, directly down nine feet onto the stage and ran rapidly across it. ... As he leaped he cried distinctly the motto of Virginia 'Sic Semper Tyrannis.' ... Consternation seemed for a moment to rivet every one to his seat, the next moment confusion reigned supreme."
6 o'clock — Pulse failing, respiration 28.
6:30 — Still failing and labored breathing.
7 o'clock — Symptoms of immediate dissolution.
7:22 — Death.
It was the morning of April 15, 150 years ago this Wednesday.
The "Terrible News," as the Tribune's headline simply stated, hit Chicagoans particularly hard, for Lincoln "was identified with us" and "had laughed and talked with us, had labored for us." Many Chicagoans knew him. The shocking news, a deed so wicked the Tribune said its only comparison was the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, came in so late Friday that most people learned of it in their Saturday morning newspapers. Distraught residents took to the streets seeking comfort and crowded newspaper offices for the latest news. "Strong men wept in the streets," the Tribune reported, describing eerily silent city byways where sobbing was the only sound heard.
The shock wave of grief was followed by a demand for vengeance. The Tribune reported a rebel sympathizer in Washington, upon being told by a soldier that the president was dead, said: "'I am damn glad of it.' He had scarcely concluded his utterance when the guard put a ball through his head, and he lies now a corpse, execrated by all." In San Francisco, mobs attacked the offices of newspapers affiliated with the Democratic Party, which had opposed Lincoln's re-election in 1864, adopting a "peace platform" calling for an end to the war. When the wife of a Copperhead — a Confederate supporter — ordered the clerks at her husband's Chicago store to take down the store's mourning drapery, a crowd assembled and forced its replacement.
Several of Booth's co-conspirators had been captured by April 19, the day of Lincoln's funeral service in the East Room of the White House. As the ceremony in Washington coincided with others across the North, the Tribune reported: "The tears which flowed so lavishly on the announcement of his death broke out afresh, and the national sorrow knew no bounds." In Chicago, even the elements seemed to mourn: "The clouds lowered black as night, as if refusing to admit one ray of sunshine on the scene of affliction."
Two days later, Lincoln's slow and final journey to Springfield began. A nine-car funeral train made stops in cities along the way, where upward of 1.5 million people viewed the coffin. The president of the New York Central Railroad, who was aboard the train, said: "As we sped over the rails at night, the scene was the most pathetic ever witnessed. At every crossroads the glare of innumerable torches illuminated the whole population, kneeling on the ground."
On April 26, as the Lincoln funeral train reached Albany, N.Y., Booth was cornered in a barn on a farm in Caroline County, Va. Troops who had been trailing him set fire to the barn, and he was fatally shot, despite orders to take him alive. Reportedly he whispered: "Tell my mother I died for my country."
When Lincoln's body reached Chicago, the Tribune said: "He comes back to us, his work finished, the republic vindicated, his enemies overthrown and suing for peace." During the train's 1,700-mile journey, the last Confederate military force had surrendered; the war was over.
Yet when the train arrived at its final destination, a Civil War veteran had a sense that Lincoln's work was not yet complete — that without him, the road to equality would be long and hard for the thousands of blacks who came to Springfield for his burial. "As the bier passed, almost every one of them either knelt or prostrated himself or herself upon the ground and gave way to touching demonstrations of grief," said Maj. Robert McClaughry. "They knew that their greatest friend was passing to his rest, and the future seemed dark enough to their vision."
Editor's note: Thanks to Kirsten Bell, of Riverside; Robert Kuzma, of Joliet; Richard Ott, of Berkeley; and Francine Rajski-Dzuryak, from River Forest, for suggesting different aspects of this Flashback.

