Requires expected brand, facilities divestitures; one more legal hurdle remains
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C., & GREENSBORO, N.C. -- Reynolds American Inc. and Lorillard Inc. late Tuesday announced that the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has accepted, by a three-to-two vote, a proposed consent agreement authorizing Reynolds American to close its proposed acquisition of Lorillard.
As reported in a 21st Century Smoke/CSP Daily News Flash, the proposed order requires Reynolds to divest to Imperial Tobacco Group four established cigarette brands—Winston, Kool, Salem and Maverick—to settle FTC charges that their proposed merger would likely be anticompetitive.
Click here to view the complaint. And click here to view the agreement containing the consent order.
“The merging parties chose to present this acquisition to the commission with a proposed divestiture aimed solely at securing our approval of the acquisition,” the FTC wrote. “As proposed, Reynolds will purchase Lorillard for $27.4 billion and then immediately divest certain assets from both Reynolds and Lorillard to Imperial Tobacco Group plc in a second $7.1-billion transaction. At the end of both transactions, Reynolds will own Lorillard’s Newport brand and Imperial will own three former Reynolds’ brands, Winston, Kool and Salem, as well as Lorillard’s Maverick and e-cigarette blu brands, and Lorillard’s corporate infrastructure and manufacturing facility.”
Imperial, based in Bristol, England is an international tobacco manufacturer with a competitive presence in about 70 countries, but a comparatively small presence in the United States. With the acquisition of the divested assets, Imperial would become a more substantial competitor in the United States.
Winston-Salem, N.C.-based Reynolds markets two of the best-selling cigarettes in the country, Camel and Pall Mall, as well as Winston, Kool and Salem. Greensboro, N.C.-based Lorillard’s flagship brand, Newport, is the best-selling menthol cigarette, which it markets along with other brands including Maverick. Reynolds and Lorillard are the second- and third-largest U.S. cigarette makers (with approximately 26% and 15% market share, respectively), behind industry leader Altria Group Inc., Richmond, Va., which sells Marlboro cigarettes (with approximately 51% market share). Other players in the market include Liggett and Imperial, each with approximately 3% of the market, and about 50 other small players focused mainly on discount or regional business, the FTC said.
According to the FTC complaint, without the divestiture to Imperial, the proposed merger raises significant competitive concerns by eliminating current and emergent, head-to-head competition between Reynolds and Lorillard in the U.S. market for traditional combustible cigarettes. It also increases the likelihood that the merged firm would unilaterally raise prices, and that coordinated interaction would occur between Reynolds and Altria, the remaining two large competitors in an already concentrated industry.
Also, according to the complaint, a new entry would be unlikely to counter the anticompetitive effects of the proposed merger. Potential new competitors would face significant barriers to entry, including declining demand, regulatory barriers, the large investment required to promote cigarette brands, restrictions on advertising and difficulty in obtaining shelf space.
The proposed order requires Reynolds to divest to Imperial the four cigarette brands, and it also requires that Reynolds divest to Imperial the Lorillard manufacturing facilities in Greensboro, N.C., and provide Imperial with the opportunity to hire most of the existing Lorillard management, staff and salesforce. It also requires the newly merged Reynolds and Lorillard to provide Imperial with retail shelf space for a short period, and to provide other operational support during the transition.
Continued on page 2.
Varieties are gluten-free, kosher and made with all-natural ingredients
Second Nature is now available in six varieties of on-the-go single serve packages: Wholesome Medley, Simplicity...
Product Search

