Man kills lawyer, judge, co-defendant at Milan courthouse - KWWL - Eastern Iowa Breaking News, Weather, Closings
Strong storms in the Southern Plains overnight are offering a preview of bad weather expected in major cities across the Midwest later in the day. More >>
Strong storms rumbled through the Southern Plains early Thursday, missing major population centers but offering a preview of bad weather that could hit Chicago, Detroit and other big cities in the Midwest later in the day. More >>
Repeated natural-gas accidents - including a pipeline explosion that killed eight people - suggest that Pacific Gas & Electric Co., California's largest power utility, may be too big to operate safely, the... More >>
Utah's governor and a Latino community advocate called for answers Wednesday in a prison inmate's death that occurred after dialysis providers failed to show up for his treatment. More >>
Utah's governor called for answers in the death of an inmate whose dialysis providers failed to show up for treatment. More >>
Authorities who say they reviewed dramatic video that appears to show a white South Carolina police officer shooting a fleeing black man have filed a murder charge against the officer. More >>
   
   
Associated Press
MILAN (AP) - A man on trial for fraudulent bankruptcy opened fire in Milan's courthouse Thursday, killing his lawyer, a co-defendant and a judge before being captured nearly 25 kilometers away as he fled on a motorbike, officials said.
As the shots rang out in the fortress-like tribunal, court employees barricaded themselves inside their offices and took cover under their desks while police hunted for the gunman who moved unimpeded from one floor to the next.
"There was a lot of panic at the beginning when people came running toward us saying there was a person with a pistol who had been shooting," said lawyer Mirko Ricetti, who said he locked himself in a first-floor court room after hearing a shot.
After texting loved ones that they were OK, employees and lawyers were eventually allowed to trickle out of the tribunal, women first, followed by the men who had their court ID cards checked.
Interior Minister Angelino Alfano said the suspect was caught by carabinieri police in Vimercate, near Monza, indicating he had traveled some 25 kilometers (15 miles) from the scene before being captured. An ambulance with escort was seen leaving the Vimercate police station, but it wasn't immediately clear if the gunman was inside.
Prosecutor Edmondo Bruti Liberati said the gunman first fired on his lawyer and co-defendant, killing both and seriously injuring a second co-defendant.
Afterwards, he "walked through the building, going down a floor, and killed the judge," Bruti Liberati told The Associated Press.
He said it wasn't clear whether there was any relationship between the gunman and the judge.
He identified the slain judge as Fernando Ciampi, who worked in the civil section of bankruptcy court. The ANSA news agency identified the gunman as Claudio Giardiello.
Bruti Liberati said the gunman was on trial with two others for fraudulent bankruptcy.
Giardiello's former attorney, Valerio Maraniello, told RAI state TV the case concerned a failed real estate business and that Giardiello was "very unusual" and "over the top" in his legal dealings.
The shooting immediately raised questions about how the man gained entrance to the Fascist-era courthouse with a weapon, given that visitors must pass through metal detectors.
The courthouse has metal detectors at the four main entrances, but lawyers and courthouse employees with official IDs are regularly waved through without the additional security screen and accredited employees can drive into the internal garage.
Attornies Mirko and Davide Pupo noted that the metal detector from the lawyers' entrance had been removed several months ago.
Employees who emerged after the shooting suggested that the gunman could easily have gained entrance without passing through the metal detector by entering with his lawyer, though other attorneys said their clients routinely are told to go in via the public entrance.
The deputy interior minister, Filippo Bubbico, said an investigation would determine who was to blame for any security lapse, given also that the gunman wasn't stopped as he moved from one floor to the next to continue the spree, and then was able to flee unimpeded.
___
AP Photographer Luca Bruno contributed.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
All content © Copyright 2000 - 2015 WorldNow and KWWL. All Rights Reserved.

