Featured
Latest Headlines
Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 316-268-6508 or email obiteam@wichitaeagle.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By Suzanne Perez Tobias
 
Gov. Sam Brownback, Stewart said, has transformed Kansas into “a veritable right-topia, with low taxes and deregulation for everyone.”
The Comedy Central host criticized a law signed by Brownback earlier this month that will make Kansas the sixth state in the nation to allow “constitutional carry,” which allows residents 21 or older to carry concealed firearms regardless of whether they’ve had training or obtained a permit.
The governor supported the measure, Stewart said, because Kansas gun owners have demonstrated that they’re responsible.
“That’s a reason you allow your children to get a hamster,” Stewart said. “But even then, you’re going to want to keep a couple of shoe boxes around, know what I mean?”
Stewart also mocked a proposal being debated in the Kansas Legislature that would tighten welfare restrictions. The measure extends the list of things recipients couldn’t pay for with welfare money, including concert tickets, psychics, theme park tickets, cruises or nail salon services.
“So if you’re on welfare in Kansas, you can cross this mall off your list,” Stewart said, pointing to a photo of a shopping center labeled, “Anything That Might Possibly Bring Joy Into Your Life.”
The comedian said Kansas policymakers’ recent decisions are “a little strange,” because data shows that for every dollar Kansans contribute to the federal government, they get $1.29 in benefits.
“That’s the fact, Kansas: You’re on the dole,” Stewart said. He then suggested Kansas roads be paved with used condoms rather than “all that extravagant asphalt” and that crops be irrigated with urine.
 
Related
Related
Nation & World Videos
Join the Discussion
The Wichita Eagle is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

