Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
SPRINGFIELD, Mo. — Six months after it was enacted, voters repealed an ordinance to protect gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender residents from discrimination. Final results of the Tuesday vote were close,
Post to Facebook
Gay-bias protections repealed in Mo.'s 3rd largest city SPRINGFIELD, Mo. — Six months after it was enacted, voters repealed an ordinance to protect gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender residents from discrimination. Final results of the Tuesday vote were close, Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1ydvya8
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Gay-bias protections repealed in Mo.'s 3rd largest city
Stephen Herzog, Springfield (Mo.) News-Leader 1:44 p.m. EDT April 8, 2015
Supporters of Yes on Question 1 hold up signs during a watch party April 7, 2015, in Springfield, Mo., after voters repealed a City Council ordinance prohibiting discrimination against gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered residents in hiring and housing.
(Photo: Nathan Papes, Springfield (Mo.) News-Leader)
1 CONNECT 2 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
Final results of the Tuesday vote were close, 51.4% to repeal vs. 48.6% not.
"Momentum really turned in the last weeks," said Calvin Morrow, spokesman for the campaign to repeal gay rights in Missouri's third largest city. He had questioned whether discrimination against gay and lesbian residents actually happened in Springfield and said the fight over the ordinance had left the city divided.
Justin Burnett, who won a council seat Tuesday, supported repeal of the ordinance. He said it was a win for small business and the faith community.
"A lot of people of faith thought this ordinance neglected their constitutional and God-given rights," he said.
At least 225 cities and counties across the USA prohibit hiring and housing discrimination on the basis of gender and sexual identity, according to the Human Rights Campaign, which advocates for LGBT equal rights.
In Missouri, at least six cities including Kansas City and St. Louis as well as St. Louis County have an ordinance, according to the Human Rights Campaign.
“A lot of people of faith thought this ordinance neglected their constitutional and God-given rights.”
Justin Burnett, Springfield, Mo.
PROMO, a Missouri-based gay-rights advocacy group, puts the number at a dozen cities and two counties, including Jackson County that has Kansas City. All but two of the smaller locales — college towns Columbia and Kirksville — are St. Louis suburbs.
Passage of religious freedom laws in Indiana and Arkansas recently drew a backlash, especially from business leaders, and those states hastily tweaked the laws to address concerns that it would allow discrimination against gays and lesbians. Missouri considered a similar measure in 2014 when a Republican lawmaker introduced a bill, but it never made it to a vote.
"People have worked so hard on this. We'll rest tonight and we'll regroup tomorrow," Krista Moncado of the GLO Community Center, a gay and transgender organization in Springfield, said after the results were made final.
Thousands of dollars and hundreds of hours were poured into both sides of this campaign, which was always passionate and sometimes ugly.
"It's just a shame it took a truly controversial issue to tear the community apart to get that kind of turnout," said Mayor Bob Stephens, who was re-elected Tuesday and did not give his view of the issue during his campaign.
City Council had voted 6-3 in October to add sexual orientation and gender identity to the city's nondiscrimination ordinance.
Opponents, who voiced concern about religious freedom and the potential effect of the ordinance on the use of bathrooms across the city, gathered enough signatures to force council to either repeal the expansion or send it to the ballot box. City Council tabled the measure, which automatically set up the vote.
"It was never about one night," said Crystal Clinkenbeard, who ran the campaign against a repeal. "It was about changing hearts and minds in Springfield. The people that worked on this campaign are invested in the community and committed to making sure people know it's not OK to discriminate. That work will continue."
Contributing: The Associated Press
USA NOW
Apr 08, 2015

