Image 1of/3
gallery_thumbnails_show|article-gallery-6184402|article-gallery-6184402|0
gallery_overlay_open|article-gallery-6184402|article-gallery-6184402|0
gallery_overlay_open_thumbs|article-gallery-6184402|article-gallery-6184402|0
Image 1 of 3
Wei Lee works at his station at the Asian Law Caucus, Tuesday, April 7, 2015, in San Francisco, Calif. Lee, age 26, is a development assistant with the group and an immigrant rights advocate. He moved from Jacarei, Brazil to S.F. in 2005 and recently graduated from UC Berkeley with a BA in psychology. Lee applied for a U Visa after being assaulted in 2013 while walking to his home in the Mission neighborhood.
Photo: Santiago Mejia / The Chronicle
Wei Lee works at his station at the Asian Law Caucus, Tuesday,...
Image 2 of 3
The offices at the Asian Law Caucus are covered with pro-immigration signs, Tuesday, April 7, 2015, in San Francisco, Calif.
Photo: Santiago Mejia / The Chronicle
The offices at the Asian Law Caucus are covered with...
Image 3 of 3
Wei Lee works at his station at the Asian Law Caucus, Tuesday, April 7, 2015, in San Francisco, Calif. Lee, age 26, is a development assistant with the group and an immigrant rights advocate. He moved from Jacarei, Brazil to S.F. in 2005 and recently graduated from UC Berkeley with a BA in psychology. Lee applied for a U Visa after being assaulted in 2013 while walking to his home in the Mission neighborhood.
Photo: Santiago Mejia / The Chronicle
Wei Lee works at his station at the Asian Law Caucus, Tuesday,...
California lawmakers propose expanding benefits to undocumented immigrants
1 / 3
gallery_thumbs_close|article-gallery-6184402|article-gallery-6184402|0
gallery_overlay_close|article-gallery-6184402|article-gallery-6184402|0
SACRAMENTO — California legislative leaders took a bold step Tuesday toward protecting immigrants living in the country without documentation by backing legislation to offer Medi-Cal and other public services to a population they said they want to help move out of the shadows.
The leaders of the California Senate and Assembly joined lawmakers and advocates in announcing a the “Immigrants Shape California” legislative package at a press conference in Sacramento, saying the federal government’s inaction on immigration reform forced them to act.
“California has grown into the greatest state in the nation and the world’s seventh largest economy on the backs of settlers from all over this country and immigrants from many others,” said Senate Leader Kevin de Leon , D-Los Angeles. “Our infrastructure, our railroads, our roads and bridges were built by immigrants … Immigrants shape California.”
SB5 by Sen. Ricardo Lara , D-Bell Gardens (Los Angeles County), would extend Medi-Cal to low-income immigrants living in the country without documentation. Immigrants, regardless of residency status, would also be able to obtain coverage from the California Health Benefit Exchange at the rates available to others in the state.
Lara said 30 percent of undocumented immigrants can afford to pay into the state’s health insurance exchange without subsidies.
Last year, a similar bill by Lara to expand Medi-Cal stalled due to the $1.3 billion a year cost. Lara said he’s been working with officials in Washington, D.C., on a federal waiver in order to expand Medi-Cal coverage to immigrants and on ways to limit the cost of the expansion.
“The numbers are still being worked out, but we’ve brought it down from what we once thought would be $1 billion to close to $400 to $800 million a year,” Lara said. “It looks like something that’s do-able to cover folks.”
SB10, also by Lara, would create the California Office of New Americans within the Governor’s office to work on coordinating immigration services.
SB674, by de Leon and Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins , D-San Diego, would require law enforcement agencies across the state to comply with the federal Victim of Crime Visa , called a U-Visa, which grants temporary residency to victims of certain crimes and those who have been helpful to a criminal investigation. De Leon said some law enforcement agencies have appeared unwilling to comply with the U-Visa process. He specifically named Kern County as one of them.
“It seems certain law enforcement agencies throughout the state of California are taking into their own hands the subjectiveness of whether one belongs in this country or not, irrespective of the crime committed or perpetuated against the victim themselves or they themselves have become a witness in a crime,” de Leon said. “This measure makes it clear that all law enforcement have to mandatorily comply.”
De Leon said the bill package unveiled Tuesday adds to laws California has already passed that makes the state a leader on immigrant rights.
In January, California began issuing driver licenses to people regardless of immigration status, with more than 500,000 immigrants applying in the first three months. That was double the number of applications the Department of Motor Vehicles projected during the first three months of the new law.
California also allows undocumented immigrants to apply for financial aid to attend college.
“We can do more and we will do more,” de Leon said.
De Leon said the federal government’s inaction on immigration reform has put the onus on California. He said he hopes to gain Republican support in the state Legislature as the immigrant rights bills move forward.
“The federal government’s failure to act has unfairly shifted the burden to the states and California is taking the brunt of it,” said Senate Republican Leader Bob Huff of Diamond Bar (Los Angeles County). “We understand the burdens facing immigrants who want to go to work and raise their families in safe neighborhoods, and the rationale behind these bills is admirable. But without money from Congress and President Obama it will be very difficult and costly for California taxpayers to fund all of these bill proposals.”
The Institute for Taxation and Economic Policy estimates California took in $2.2 billion in state and local taxes in 2010 from immigrants living in the country without documentation, including $1.8 billion in sales taxes.
“These bills will ensure that immigrants are not forced to live as second class citizens, and the immigrants’ rights community is dedicated to working alongside California’s legislators to see these measures successfully passed,” said Angie Junck , supervising attorney at the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco.
Videos

