1:48 | 04/07/15
Coming up next:
Enhanced full screen
Explore related content
Related Extras
Related Videos
Video Transcript
Transcript for From the Archives: Hillary Clinton Delivers Women's Rights Speech in Beijing
I mean this kind if Hillary Clinton ignored critics who aren't you. Human rights abuses here are so bad that the US should not send a delegation much less the wife of the president. But mr. Clinton delivered a surprisingly forceful attack on China. Without mentioning the conference post by name. He condemned a long list of abuses known to occur in China from forced abortion to violent against women and girls. It is a violation. Of human rights. When babies are denied food or drowned or suffocated or their spines broken. Simply because they are born girls. The First Lady went on this Friday indefensible. Kind of harassment of delegates at while road this kind of thing you nongovernment conference held thirty miles away. Let me be clear. Freedom means the right of people to assemble organize and debate openly. It means not taking citizens away from their loved ones and jailing them mistreating them or denying them. Their freedom or dignity because of the peaceful expression. Of their ideas and opinions. If the Chinese were upset by mrs. Clinton's attacks they never said so in fact. They ignored her visit in their news accounts of today. There was obvious enthusiasm. For mrs. Clinton for many of the delicate. For the First Lady be a very marked a dramatic shift. He has waited through plenty of domestic controversy but he has never taken such a bold step into international controversy. In this case the troubled US relations with China. And Compton ABC news making.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: Rand Paul Says He Will Do Anything to Defend America From ‘Haters of Mankind’
Now Playing: Power Outage Hits Washington, DC
Now Playing: Rand Paul's Full Speech Announcing 2016 Presidential Bid
Now Playing: Lights Out in the State Department
Now Playing: From the Archives: Hillary Clinton Delivers Women's Rights Speech in Beijing
Now Playing: From the Archives: President Bill Clinton Testifies in Monica Lewinsky Case
Now Playing: Hillary Clinton Testifies to Congress on Benghazi Consulate Attack
Now Playing: From the Archives: First Lady Hillary Clinton Takes on Healthcare Reform
Now Playing: Technical Dimension of Iran Nuclear Deal Explained
Now Playing: That Adorable Moment When President Obama Got Interrupted by Bees
Now Playing: Rand Paul In A Minute: Everything You Need to Know
Now Playing: Hillary Clinton Team's New Office Space Lease Hints at Presidential Run
Now Playing: Here's What Hillary Clinton's Campaign HQ Looks Like
Now Playing: HRC's New BKN HQ
Now Playing: Indiana Lawmakers Propose 'Fix' to Religious Freedom Law
Now Playing: Iran Nuclear Deal in 55 Seconds
Now Playing: Arkansas Governor Asks for Change to 'Religious Freedom' Bill
Now Playing: Arkansas Governor Backs Off From Signing 'Religious Freedom' Bill
Now Playing: Sen. Bob Menendez Indicted in Newark
Now Playing: {{itm.title}}

