Select Portfolio and Asset Combination for Display on Market Band
Select Portfolio
ET NOW RADIO
FREE ET MARKETS APP
BREAKING NEWS
China's Yuan drops as dollar strengthens amidst Fed's possible rate hike
By Reuters | 27 May, 2015, 12.31PM IST
The central bank set its guidance rate at a one-month low and weaker for the fourth straight session, fixing the midpoint for the daily trading range at 6.1198 per dollar prior to market open, 0.04 percent weaker than Tuesday's fix.
The spot market opened at 6.2043 per dollar and traded at 6.2054 at midday, down 0.02 percent from Tuesday's close.
The offshore yuan was trading 0.04 percent weaker from the onshore spot at 6.2079 per dollar.
While there has been growing demand for dollars, a trader at a European bank in Shanghai expected the yuan to keep to its recent narrow trading range of 6.18 to 6.20, where it has been since Chinese officials spoke in mid-March of keeping the currency stable.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said on Tuesday that the yuan is no longer undervalued, reversing a view it had held for many years.
Traders said the IMF comments echoed what Chinese officials believe that the yuan's value is now roughly balanced.
The remarks raised expectations that the yuan could be included in the basket of currencies used for the IMF's Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) later this year.
Stay on top of business news with The Economic Times App. Download it Now!
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter Follow
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Browse Companies
Browse Mutual Funds
BACK TO TOP
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Others


Aim higher, reach further.
Get the Wall Street Journal $12 for 12 weeks. Subscribe Now
Beijing’s Yuan Push Bears Fruit
Yuan trumps yen and Hong Kong dollar to become region’s top currency for doing business with China
By
Updated May 27, 2015 12:09 a.m. ET
The yuan is now the region’s leading currency for doing business with China, trumping the Japanese yen and the Hong Kong dollar as Beijing aggressively pushes its currency through international trade channels.
The currency now accounts for 31% of payments exchanged with China, up from 7% just three years ago, according to latest data from payments provider Society for World Interbank Financial Telecommunication.
As Asian...
Popular on WSJ
Popular on WSJ

