Select Portfolio and Asset Combination for Display on Market Band
Select Portfolio
ET NOW RADIO
FREE ET MARKETS APP
BREAKING NEWS
China's Yuan drops as dollar strengthens amidst Fed's possible rate hike
By Reuters | 27 May, 2015, 12.31PM IST
The central bank set its guidance rate at a one-month low and weaker for the fourth straight session, fixing the midpoint for the daily trading range at 6.1198 per dollar prior to market open, 0.04 percent weaker than Tuesday's fix.
The spot market opened at 6.2043 per dollar and traded at 6.2054 at midday, down 0.02 percent from Tuesday's close.
The offshore yuan was trading 0.04 percent weaker from the onshore spot at 6.2079 per dollar.
While there has been growing demand for dollars, a trader at a European bank in Shanghai expected the yuan to keep to its recent narrow trading range of 6.18 to 6.20, where it has been since Chinese officials spoke in mid-March of keeping the currency stable.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said on Tuesday that the yuan is no longer undervalued, reversing a view it had held for many years.
Traders said the IMF comments echoed what Chinese officials believe that the yuan's value is now roughly balanced.
The remarks raised expectations that the yuan could be included in the basket of currencies used for the IMF's Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) later this year.
Stay on top of business news with The Economic Times App. Download it Now!
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter Follow
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Browse Companies
Browse Mutual Funds
BACK TO TOP
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Others


Share
Shutterstock/Dmitry Kalinovsky
A large shift of global institutional assets into renminbi could take place if the International Monetary Fund concludes later this year that the Chinese currency should join the special drawing right, the Fund’s composite currency unit used in official worldwide transactions
Some sizable moves on world capital markets could take place preemptively if opinion hardens in the next few months that the IMF is about to bring the renminbi USDCNY, +0.0210%  into the SDR, which combines the world’s most important reserve currencies. This could spur further appreciation of the renminbi that could represent another depressant for the Chinese economy, complicating Beijing’s efforts to prevent an unduly sharp slowdown this year.
A possible conflict between China’s international monetary ambitions, on the one hand, and, on the other, the need to keep the economy on an even keel was highlighted in a seminar on the SDR and the renminbi organized in Beijing last week by the International Monetary Institute of Renmin University and central bank research group, the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum.
Whether the SDR could or should be expanded from its present four constituents — the dollar BUXX, -0.17%  , euro EURUSD, +0.2851%  , yen USDJPY, +0.01%  and sterling GBPUSD, +0.1430%  — is being debated at a technical level, ahead of a decision by the IMF executive board before the end of the year.
WSJ Opinion: Export-Import Bank’s Last Gasp?
(2:46)
An intriguing issue is whether this becomes elevated to a political question between the U.S. and Chinese governments. A decision to include the renminbi in what is effectively an association of the world’s top reserve currencies has big implications for financial markets, to which only a few specialists hitherto have paid much attention.
The general consensus at the Beijing seminar was that, from a technical point of view, the renminbi was probably well on the way to SDR membership. Although many Chinese financial market participants believe the U.S. opposes renminbi inclusion, Washington cannot — even if it wished to — by itself block adhesion. The SDR decision requires a 70% majority on the IMF executive board and the U.S. has the power to veto solely decisions that require an 85% majority.
In addition, the U.S. will almost certainly not wish to risk another potentially embarrassing showdown with China just months after being rebuffed in its attempt to block Western countries’ adherence to the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. China is keeping the door open to possible U.S. participation with a 10% stake in the AIIB — even though Congress in its present mood would probably block the administration from signing up if it showed willingness to do so.
The issue of whether the Chinese currency could join the SDR is a much more technical issue than the AIIB, without an impact on the U.S. budget, and would not require congressional approval.
However, a positive decision would allow China effectively to leap ahead to become the world’s fifth most important reserve currency, compared with its present position as No. 7, behind the present four SDR members as well as the Australian USDAUD, -0.1548%   and Canadian dollars USDCAD, -0.1609%  , which the IMF also regards as reserve currencies.
On a rough calculation, there may be around $100 billion of renminbi reserves in central bank holdings, about half the total of Canadian and Australian dollars (around $200 billion each). On this basis, an SDR inclusion decision could spark a further $100 billion worth of renminbi purchases by central banks to bring renminbi holdings up to the same levels as for the Australian and Canadian units. To bring renminbi holdings up to the same level as those in sterling and the yen, central banks would need to purchase roughly $300 billion of renminbi in different assets.
These are not highly significant figures compared with overall worldwide assets in the fund management industry of around $80 trillion, OMFIF’s estimate of global official-sector assets of $30 trillion, and daily foreign-exchange turnover estimated by the Bank of International Settlements at $5.3 trillion. However, shifts of this nature would be a milestone event, especially if accompanied by similar movements in private-sector asset movements. These all developments for which the global financial industry should be prepared.
More from MarketWatch
David Marsh
David Marsh is managing director of the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum.
MarketWatch Partner Center
David Marsh
David Marsh is managing director of the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum.
We Want to Hear from You
Join the conversation
Copyright ©2015 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
6.2054
87.04
123.12
1.5405
1.2414

