By Associated Press April 10 at 6:51 PM
ANNAPOLIS, Md. — A bill to decriminalize drug paraphernalia is headed back to the House chamber after getting support from the Senate.
On Friday, senators voted 44-3 in favor of the amended bill, which legalizes drug paraphernalia involving the use or possession of small amounts of marijuana.
Supporters of the measure called it a “compromise” bill because while it decriminalized paraphernalia and upped the amount — 10 grams to 20 grams — for possession, it also makes it a criminal offense and punishable by a $500 fine, to smoke in public or in a car.
Maryland decriminalized small amounts of marijuana possession during last year’s session.
Just because the bill decriminalizes paraphernalia, explained Sen. Robert Zirkin, D-Baltimore County, doesn’t mean lawmakers want to see people smoking in parks or behind the wheel.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

