A federal appeals court on Tuesday denied the White House's request to lift a hold on President Obama's executive action on immigration, which would have shielded immigrants from deportation and provided millions of immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally with work permits. The appeals court's ruling comes after 26 states filed a lawsuit against the immigration reform steps Obama took in November.
 
 
Writer Flannery O'Connor will be honored with a Forever postage stamp, the U.S. Postal Service announced Tuesday.
Flannery O'Connor to appear on new USPS "Forever" stamp http://t.co/Epx4OOgzGY pic.twitter.com/RYNLrgQDeQ
The stamp for 3-ounce packages will debut on June 5 and feature peacock feathers, the Los Angeles Times reports, a nod to the fact that O'Connor raised peacocks on her family's farm in Georgia. O'Connor was born in Savannah in 1925, and wrote Wise Blood and The Violent Bear It Away. The Complete Stories of Flannery O'Connor won a 1972 National Book Award for fiction, and was named the Best of the National Book Awards 1950-2008 by a public vote.
 
The Vatican's top diplomat said on Tuesday that the legalization of gay marriage in Ireland is a "defeat for humanity."
At a news conference in Rome, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the Vatican's secretary of state and second to the pope in the Holy See's hierarchy, said he was "deeply saddened by the result" of the vote. "The church must take account of this reality, but in the sense that it must strengthen its commitment to evangelization," he added.
 
In a court filing, the State Department proposed posting online large bundles of Hillary Clinton's emails from her time as secretary of state every 60 days, starting on June 30.
"The department will strive to produce as many documents as possible on each production date, and will file a status report one week after each production to inform the court of the number of pages posted," Justice Department lawyers wrote. "The department is keenly aware of the intense public interest in the documents and wants to get releasable materials out as soon as possible."
 
scary
 
A bomb threat made by an anonymous caller on Tuesday targeted EVA Air Flight 12 as it flew from Taipei to Los Angeles.
#UPDATE Passengers are starting to exit an #EVA Air flight at #LAX after today's phone threat: http://t.co/rRegfIDll1 pic.twitter.com/O0QpzbL5qS
After it landed safely at around 3:30 p.m., the plane was directed to a secure area reserved for planes that are experiencing problems, CBS Los Angeles reports . At about 5:30 p.m., passengers began to get off the plane and were driven away in buses. FBI agents, Homeland Security officials, and Los Angeles Police Department officers are all on the scene, and in a statement, the FBI said that "all threats, regardless of known credibility, are taken seriously."
 
A new study published in the journal   BMJ has found that women who take birth control pills that use newer types of the progestin hormone have three times the risk of developing blood clots compared with women not taking the oral contraceptive.
Blood clots have been a known risk of taking the pill since the 1990s. Drugmakers have been changing the progesterone levels of the pill since it was first introduced in 1960 in order to lower side effects like weight gain and acne. Those tweaks could be the reason why the risk of blood clots went up, considering that the scientists adjusted for factors like cancer, varicose veins, smoking, and obesity on the risk of blood clots, and the link between newer contraceptives and an increased risk of blood clots remained high, Time reports .
 
 
Vox Media has acquired Revere Digital, the parent company of the tech website Re/code.
 
From February to May, data thieves were able to gain access to the tax return information for roughly 100,000 taxpayers, IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said Tuesday.
During those four months, the thieves attempted to get information 200,000 times through the agency's "Get Transcript" online application, Reuters reports , and were successful about half of the time. It wasn't a hack, since the cyber criminals already had names, addresses, Social Security numbers, and other personal information that they used to access the system. IRS data outside of the application was not affected, and the agency said it plans to strengthen its security measures.
 


FILE - This Friday, Oct. 3, 2014 file photo, shows the U.S. Supreme Court in Washington. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh, File)
President Obama's second-term agenda, it seems, is in the hands of the courts.
Same-sex marriage. Obamacare. Climate change. And now immigration . And in many cases, there is significant doubt about whether his signature initiatives will stand legal scrutiny.
The latest blow to Obama's second-term plans came Tuesday when a federal appeals court in New Orleans denied the administration's request to move forward with implementing his expanded executive action on immigration to defer deportation for millions of undocumented immigrants.
Texas and 25 other states have sued to have it shelved. The drama is sure to ensue for months,  writes the Post's David Nakamura , and throw into doubt whether the fight over all of Obama's executive actions on immigration will be settled before he leaves office in January 2017.
Here's a look at other Obama agenda items that are now in the court's hands, and where they stand.
Same-sex marriage
Obama is the first American president to support same-sex marriage -- though his public evolution apparently was slower than his personal one . Before he backed gay marriage, he called for repealing the Defense of Marriage Act. And since, he has ordered federal agencies to recognize same-sex marriages and partnerships like any other married couple.
But the Supreme Court could have the final say on gay marriage's place in America when it hands down a high-profile decision in the next month on whether states that ban gay marriage violate a couple's constitutional right. The Supreme Court went Obama's way in 2013 when it allowed the federal government to recognize legally married same-sex couples.
The nation's highest court is hearing Obergefell v. Hodges, a case that examines if same-sex couples have a constitutional right to marry. Here's what you need to know about the case that could make gay marriage legal across the nation. (Julie Percha/The Washington Post)
Obamacare
The president's signature health-care reform law has already survived one Supreme Court challenge when in 2012, a divided court (5-4) narrowly upheld the mandate for people to have insurance by determining it was a tax.
This time around, the court is mulling another major portion of the law: Whether the federal government can subsidize health insurance for low- and middle-income people who bought their insurance on the federally run Web site, HealthCare.gov, in states that didn't set up their own exchanges. Challengers say the law as written only supports subsidies for the 16 states that set up exchanges.
Climate Change
Obama told U.S. Coast Guard cadets last week that failing to act on climate change will "set a course for disaster." At the same time, the Supreme Court is debating whether his method of cutting down on greenhouse gas emissions is even constitutional.
The Supreme Court heard arguments  in March on whether the Environmental Protection Agency's crackdown on coal- and fire-powered plants' mercury emissions  failed to consider  undue costs on the power plants.
The justices are expected to share their decision in June. But it is expected to be just an early challenge to the president's executive climate change initiatives, say environmental watchers. (Sensing a theme here?)
Here are key moments from President Obama's commencement address to the Coast Guard Academy class of 2015, in which he told the graduates climate change would affect "everything that you do in your careers." (WhiteHouse.gov)
More immigration
The lawsuit against Obama's plan to shield 5 million additional undocumented immigrants from deportation isn't the only court challenge to the president's executive actions on immigration.
House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio)  is considering putting to a vote a separate lawsuit against the president for expanding the program in November. This is in addition to the vote the House of Representatives took (along party lines) last summer to sue the president over his overall use of executive authority.
Neither of Congress' lawsuits has made its way to a higher court -- but with Obama's luck lately, they just might.
For a recap of some other times Obama's plans have made their way through the courts, see this February post from The Fix's Philip Bump .
Amber Phillips writes about politics for The Fix. She was previously the one-woman D.C. bureau for the Las Vegas Sun and has reported from Boston and Taiwan.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!

