A federal appeals court on Tuesday denied the White House's request to lift a hold on President Obama's executive action on immigration, which would have shielded immigrants from deportation and provided millions of immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally with work permits. The appeals court's ruling comes after 26 states filed a lawsuit against the immigration reform steps Obama took in November.
 
 
Writer Flannery O'Connor will be honored with a Forever postage stamp, the U.S. Postal Service announced Tuesday.
Flannery O'Connor to appear on new USPS "Forever" stamp http://t.co/Epx4OOgzGY pic.twitter.com/RYNLrgQDeQ
The stamp for 3-ounce packages will debut on June 5 and feature peacock feathers, the Los Angeles Times reports, a nod to the fact that O'Connor raised peacocks on her family's farm in Georgia. O'Connor was born in Savannah in 1925, and wrote Wise Blood and The Violent Bear It Away. The Complete Stories of Flannery O'Connor won a 1972 National Book Award for fiction, and was named the Best of the National Book Awards 1950-2008 by a public vote.
 
The Vatican's top diplomat said on Tuesday that the legalization of gay marriage in Ireland is a "defeat for humanity."
At a news conference in Rome, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the Vatican's secretary of state and second to the pope in the Holy See's hierarchy, said he was "deeply saddened by the result" of the vote. "The church must take account of this reality, but in the sense that it must strengthen its commitment to evangelization," he added.
 
In a court filing, the State Department proposed posting online large bundles of Hillary Clinton's emails from her time as secretary of state every 60 days, starting on June 30.
"The department will strive to produce as many documents as possible on each production date, and will file a status report one week after each production to inform the court of the number of pages posted," Justice Department lawyers wrote. "The department is keenly aware of the intense public interest in the documents and wants to get releasable materials out as soon as possible."
 
scary
 
A bomb threat made by an anonymous caller on Tuesday targeted EVA Air Flight 12 as it flew from Taipei to Los Angeles.
#UPDATE Passengers are starting to exit an #EVA Air flight at #LAX after today's phone threat: http://t.co/rRegfIDll1 pic.twitter.com/O0QpzbL5qS
After it landed safely at around 3:30 p.m., the plane was directed to a secure area reserved for planes that are experiencing problems, CBS Los Angeles reports . At about 5:30 p.m., passengers began to get off the plane and were driven away in buses. FBI agents, Homeland Security officials, and Los Angeles Police Department officers are all on the scene, and in a statement, the FBI said that "all threats, regardless of known credibility, are taken seriously."
 
A new study published in the journal   BMJ has found that women who take birth control pills that use newer types of the progestin hormone have three times the risk of developing blood clots compared with women not taking the oral contraceptive.
Blood clots have been a known risk of taking the pill since the 1990s. Drugmakers have been changing the progesterone levels of the pill since it was first introduced in 1960 in order to lower side effects like weight gain and acne. Those tweaks could be the reason why the risk of blood clots went up, considering that the scientists adjusted for factors like cancer, varicose veins, smoking, and obesity on the risk of blood clots, and the link between newer contraceptives and an increased risk of blood clots remained high, Time reports .
 
 
Vox Media has acquired Revere Digital, the parent company of the tech website Re/code.
 
From February to May, data thieves were able to gain access to the tax return information for roughly 100,000 taxpayers, IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said Tuesday.
During those four months, the thieves attempted to get information 200,000 times through the agency's "Get Transcript" online application, Reuters reports , and were successful about half of the time. It wasn't a hack, since the cyber criminals already had names, addresses, Social Security numbers, and other personal information that they used to access the system. IRS data outside of the application was not affected, and the agency said it plans to strengthen its security measures.
 


Appeals court keeps Obama immigration program locked up
President Barack Obama’s bid to make overhauling immigration policy a second term victory was dealt a serious blow as federal judges ruled the effort must remain on hold while 26 states, including Florida, sue to overturn it. | Pablo Martinez Monsivais AP
By Michael Doyle and Franco Ordoñez
McClatchy Washington Bureau
The Obama administration suffered another immigration setback Tuesday, as a divided federal appeals court declined to lift a injunction imposed by a Texas-based trial judge.
The 2-1 decision by the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals means President Barack Obama’s executive action deferring deportation of certain immigrants will remain locked up in court for the foreseeable future. It also could force officials to make some tough legal and political choices.
“The public interest favors maintenance of the injunction,” Judge Jerry E. Smith stated in the appellate court’s 42-page majority opinion.
The 2012 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program stopped deportation proceedings against certain immigrants who had arrived illegally in the United States before age 16. A 2014 expansion added more immigrants, including parents of U.S. citizens. Taken together, the actions could shield more than 4 million immigrants from deportation.
Critics call the program an amnesty and say it exceeds the president’s authority. Supporters say it simply exercises prosecutorial discretion and argue that the challengers lack the legal standing to be in court.
 
In the decision issued Tuesday, the appellate court agreed with Texas that the deferred action policy known as DAPA imposed a serious burden on the state, and that Texas and the other states challenging the policy had a substantial likelihood of ultimately winning their legal case.
“DAPA modifies substantive rights and interests, conferring lawful presence on 500,000 illegal aliens in Texas (forcing) the state to choose between spending millions of dollars to subsidize driver’s licenses and changing its law,” Smith wrote.
Smith pointedly added that “although prosecutorial discretion is broad, it is not unfettered.”
Smith was appointed to the appellate court by President Ronald Reagan. Judge Jennifer Elrod, who sided with Smith, was appointed by President George W. Bush. Judge Stephen A. Higginson dissented and sided with Obama, the president who appointed him.
“I would hold that the underlying issue presented to us – the order in which non-citizens without documentation must be removed from the United States – must be decided, presently is being decided, and always has been decided, by the federal political branches,” Higginson wrote.
The Obama administration now must decide whether to ask the entire 5th Circuit to review the case or to seek review by the conservative-dominated Supreme Court, or to take some other step.
Marielena Hincapié, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center , urged the Justice Department to “continue its efforts to get this injunction lifted by bringing the matter before the Supreme Court without delay.”
A request that the Supreme Court lift the injunction, and thereby let the Obama immigration policy take effect while the full appeal runs its course, would first go to Justice Antonin Scalia, who oversees the 5th Circuit. On such a big issue, Scalia would likely refer the matter to the other eight justices for a decision.
Any decision could push the issue into the 2016 presidential campaign spotlight.
EDITORS: STORY CAN END HERE
A renewed immigration debate could prove particularly sticky for Republican presidential contenders Marco Rubio and Jeb Bush, who is expected to soon declare his presidential candidacy. Both have tried to walk a fine line between pushing for stronger border security while backing legal status to nearly 11 million people who are already in the country illegally.
Immigration rights groups were disappointed with the court ruling but expressed confidence that ultimately the executive actions would be upheld.
“We always knew that the fight for immigration reform was not going to be easy and that there would be bumps along the way. But the president’s immigration action stands on the right side of history,” said Rocio Sáenz, international executive vice president for the Service Employees International Union International.
A District of Columbia-based appellate court has heard oral arguments in a separate but related challenge to the Obama immigration policy but has not yet rendered a decision.
about 7 hours ago
about 11 hours ago

