A federal appeals court on Tuesday denied the White House's request to lift a hold on President Obama's executive action on immigration, which would have shielded immigrants from deportation and provided millions of immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally with work permits. The appeals court's ruling comes after 26 states filed a lawsuit against the immigration reform steps Obama took in November.
 
 
Writer Flannery O'Connor will be honored with a Forever postage stamp, the U.S. Postal Service announced Tuesday.
Flannery O'Connor to appear on new USPS "Forever" stamp http://t.co/Epx4OOgzGY pic.twitter.com/RYNLrgQDeQ
The stamp for 3-ounce packages will debut on June 5 and feature peacock feathers, the Los Angeles Times reports, a nod to the fact that O'Connor raised peacocks on her family's farm in Georgia. O'Connor was born in Savannah in 1925, and wrote Wise Blood and The Violent Bear It Away. The Complete Stories of Flannery O'Connor won a 1972 National Book Award for fiction, and was named the Best of the National Book Awards 1950-2008 by a public vote.
 
The Vatican's top diplomat said on Tuesday that the legalization of gay marriage in Ireland is a "defeat for humanity."
At a news conference in Rome, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the Vatican's secretary of state and second to the pope in the Holy See's hierarchy, said he was "deeply saddened by the result" of the vote. "The church must take account of this reality, but in the sense that it must strengthen its commitment to evangelization," he added.
 
In a court filing, the State Department proposed posting online large bundles of Hillary Clinton's emails from her time as secretary of state every 60 days, starting on June 30.
"The department will strive to produce as many documents as possible on each production date, and will file a status report one week after each production to inform the court of the number of pages posted," Justice Department lawyers wrote. "The department is keenly aware of the intense public interest in the documents and wants to get releasable materials out as soon as possible."
 
scary
 
A bomb threat made by an anonymous caller on Tuesday targeted EVA Air Flight 12 as it flew from Taipei to Los Angeles.
#UPDATE Passengers are starting to exit an #EVA Air flight at #LAX after today's phone threat: http://t.co/rRegfIDll1 pic.twitter.com/O0QpzbL5qS
After it landed safely at around 3:30 p.m., the plane was directed to a secure area reserved for planes that are experiencing problems, CBS Los Angeles reports . At about 5:30 p.m., passengers began to get off the plane and were driven away in buses. FBI agents, Homeland Security officials, and Los Angeles Police Department officers are all on the scene, and in a statement, the FBI said that "all threats, regardless of known credibility, are taken seriously."
 
A new study published in the journal   BMJ has found that women who take birth control pills that use newer types of the progestin hormone have three times the risk of developing blood clots compared with women not taking the oral contraceptive.
Blood clots have been a known risk of taking the pill since the 1990s. Drugmakers have been changing the progesterone levels of the pill since it was first introduced in 1960 in order to lower side effects like weight gain and acne. Those tweaks could be the reason why the risk of blood clots went up, considering that the scientists adjusted for factors like cancer, varicose veins, smoking, and obesity on the risk of blood clots, and the link between newer contraceptives and an increased risk of blood clots remained high, Time reports .
 
 
Vox Media has acquired Revere Digital, the parent company of the tech website Re/code.
 
From February to May, data thieves were able to gain access to the tax return information for roughly 100,000 taxpayers, IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said Tuesday.
During those four months, the thieves attempted to get information 200,000 times through the agency's "Get Transcript" online application, Reuters reports , and were successful about half of the time. It wasn't a hack, since the cyber criminals already had names, addresses, Social Security numbers, and other personal information that they used to access the system. IRS data outside of the application was not affected, and the agency said it plans to strengthen its security measures.
 


Dismiss
Attention
The browser or device you are using is out of date. It has known security flaws and a limited feature set. You will not see all the features of some websites. Please update your browser. A list of the most popular browsers can be found below.
Search Form
By a 2-1 vote that could pave the way to a Supreme Court ruling, the judges from the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans on May 25, 2015 ruled that President Barack Obama's executive action should remain on hold pending further judicial proceedings. After years of demonstrations such as this one at the White House in July 2010, Obama announced in November 2014 he would take executive action to help immigrants. Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images
Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images
By a 2-1 vote that could pave the way to a Supreme Court ruling, the judges from the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans on May 25, 2015 ruled that President Barack Obama's executive action should remain on hold pending further judicial proceedings. After years of demonstrations such as this one at the White House in July 2010, Obama announced in November 2014 he would take executive action to help immigrants. Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images
Appeals court deals setback to Obama's immigration effort
The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals refused to lift a block by 26 states that argued Obama overstepped his authority
May 26, 2015 11:55PM ET
President Barack Obama's plan to shield millions of undocumented immigrants from deportation was dealt a setback on Tuesday when a U.S. appeals court refused to lift to a block put in place by 26 states that argued Obama overstepped his authority.
By a 2-1 vote that could pave the way to a Supreme Court ruling, the judges from the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans ruled that Obama's executive action should remain on hold pending further judicial proceedings.
The decision further delays Obama's immigration order, which was first blocked in February by a  Brownsville, Texas lower court judge . The preliminary injunction — granted at the request of 26 states that oppose Obama's action  — was issued by U.S. District Court Judge Andrew Hanen and it halted programs unveiled in November that were intended to shield an estimated 4.7 million people from deportation.
The plaintiffs, all states led by Republican governors, said the federal government exceeded its authority in demanding whole categories of immigrants be protected. 
Obama's administration has said it is within its rights to ask the Department of Homeland Security to use discretion before deporting nonviolent migrants with U.S. family ties.
The case has become the focal point of Obama's efforts to change U.S. immigration policy.
Seeing no progress on legislative reform in Congress, Obama announced in November he would take executive action to help immigrants. He has since faced criticism from Republicans who say the program grants amnesty to lawbreakers.
On Tuesday, Texas Governor Greg Abbott said in a statement, "The President’s attempt to bypass the will of the American people was successfully checked again today."
The White House said the two appeals court judges who ruled against the administration chose to "misinterpret the facts and the law."
"The president's actions... are squarely within the bounds of his authority and they are the right thing to do for the country," White House spokeswoman Brandi Hoffinesaid.
The U.S. Department of Justice was evaluating the ruling and considering next steps, a U.S. official said.
The 5th Circuit will rule again in the coming months on whether the Obama administration can appeal the block to the executive order. That decision may be made by a new panel of judges and will take into account more evidence.
Immigration advocates have been wary of the 5th Circuit, known as one of the most conservative in the nation.
"We are disappointed, but this is not unexpected at all," Marielena Hincapie, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center, said on a conference call with reporters.
Hincapie said immigration advocates were still optimistic that the executive order would prevail.
If the Obama administration is denied an appeal it may ask the Supreme Court to consider the case, potentially delaying the start of the immigration programs until June 2016, a politically sensitive time in the run-up to the November presidential election.
"If the programs go into effect next June, there will be real electoral consequences," said Marshall Fitz, vice president of immigration policy at left-leaning Washington think tank Center for American Progress. "There is a clear contrast between (Democratic front-runner Hillary) Clinton and any Republican in the current field."
Clinton has said she would like to see Obama's action expanded to shield even more immigrants from deportation.
Reuters
Go
Sign up for our weekly newsletter
Submit
Sign up for our weekly newsletter
Submit
 
Dismiss
Error
Sorry, your comment was not saved due to a technical problem. Please try again later or using a different browser.
Accept

