2015-04-02 16:19:39
2015-04-03 11:18:29
2015-04-01 03:54:09
Previous Story
Next Story
Michelle Obama Dances Real Cool To Celebrate 5 Years Of 'Let's Move!'
First lady Michelle Obama will make a special appearance on Friday's “ Sunny Side Up Show ,” a morning TV program for preschoolers, in celebration of the fifth anniversary of her "Let's Move!" initiative . FLOTUS generously broadcasts a few moves of her own.
Obama launched "Let's Move!" in the winter of 2010, seeking to improve the physical and mental health of America's children and, specifically, to decrease the rate of childhood obesity. More than one-third of children in the U.S. were reported as obese or overweight in 2012, according to the CDC .
Obama's initiative is committed to providing parents with information to help them run a healthier household, arming schools with more nutritious foods and physical activity programs so children have more access to physical play.
Watch a clip of Obama get down with some sweet moves ( as she's wont to do ) in the video above and catch the full episode of " The Sunny Side Up Show " Friday, April 10th at 9 a.m. EST.
Also on HuffPost:
of


FLOTUS got to hug Beyonce at Barack's 2013 inauguration. Enough said.
Of course, we can't forget the "hug shared around the world" after President Obama won the 2012 presidential election.
Here Michelle bends down to embrace not one but three children during a visit to Mexico City in 2010. No small feat for a woman nearly 6-feet tall.
She hugged every single U.S. Olympic basketball player after they beat France in the 2012 Olympics. Now there's a good incentive to win.
As she pays her respects at a cemetery this past Memorial Day, Michelle shows she always knows what to do when words just aren't enough.
This little girl might be the luckiest kid in the world after receiving a bear hug from Michelle in 2009 at a White House event honoring African American History Month. If there was a hug-off competition, FLOTUS would totally be a world champion.
During a pre-game event at the 2012 CIAA Basketball Tournament in North Carolina, the tables turn and Michelle is engulfed by a group of Lady Golden Bulls basketball players.
She even traveled all the way to Johannesburg, South Africa in 2011 to hug a few lucky children.
She always gives those eyes-closed, everything-else-melts-away hugs. We are very jealous of dance legend Judith Jamison as she steals one of those world-stopping hugs from the first lady.
What's the best way to celebrate the holidays? Hugs on hugs on hugs from FLOTUS.
She doesn't discriminate against furriness.
She always seems to fit multiple children in her incredibly hug-ready arms. Here Michelle embraces two students after planting the White House Kitchen Garden in April of 2013.
Hawa Abdallah Mohammed has the right idea here as she snuggles into Michelle's welcoming arms and seems to never want to leave, as Hillary Clinton looks on with glee. We're with you Ms. Mohammed.
The hug fest continues in North Carolina at the 2012 Democratic National Convention where Michelle pulls military mother Elaine Brye in for a long embrace.
Michelle Obama must have the Mary Poppins bag of arms -- an endless wingspan that manages to hug everyone at once.
Michelle and her daughter, Sasha, take a day off to sight-see while in Germany this past June. Nothing like a hug from mom-in-chief before a girl's day out.
Take a cue from the famously fit First Lady: Kid hugs are a great way to work squats into your exercise routine.
Anyone else super jealous that they didn't get a hug from the first lady on their college graduation day? We are.
Michelle and professional tennis player Serena Williams share a hug during the 2011 U.S. Open. Here are two ladies we would love to hang out with.
 Share
 Tweet
More:
Conversations
Options
Healthy Living
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Part of AOL Lifestyle
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

