Air Quality: PSI 54-56
LOGIN FOR PDF ARCHIVES
We set you thinking
Wednesday 27 May 2015
Newstream
World
Angela Merkel tops Forbes list of world’s 100 most powerful women
German chancellor Angela Merkel topped the Forbes' list of the world's 100 Most Powerful Women 2015, while Taylor Swift was the youngest woman to make the list. Photos: Reuters
Ho Ching moved up to the 43rd spot (from 59 last year), while Taylor Swift became the youngest woman ever to make the list
Published: 12:36 PM, May 27, 2015
SINGAPORE — German chancellor Angela Merkel retained her position at the top of the Forbes 100 most powerful women list, followed by Hillary Clinton in second and Melinda Gates in third. Dr Merkel has made the list 10 times, coming in at the top spot nine times.
In the list that was published yesterday (May 26), Singapore's Temasek Holdings’ chief executive Ho Ching, who announced last month that she was going on a 3-month sabbatical , made the list at number 43. She moved up from last year’s 59th spot.
She joins seven women on the list’s “hall of fame”, which includes women who appeared on the inaugural list in 2004 and are still on it today. They are: Oprah, Queen Elizabeth, Melinda Gates, Hillary Clinton, Indra Nooyi and Christine Lagard.
At 25, pop music juggernaut Taylor Swift became the youngest woman ever to make the power list at number 64. Last year, she pulled her entire catalogue from music streaming service Spotify in protest of artist rights. She dominated the Billboard Music Awards earlier this month, sweeping eight awards including top artist.
Other celebrities who featured on the list include, Beyonce at 21, Ellen Degeneres at 50, Angelina Jolie at 54 and Sofia Vergara at 57.
The ranking is a combination of two scores: visibility by press mentions, as well as the size of the country or organisation the women lead.
The likes of Lady Gaga and Gisele Bundchen are gone from the power list, having fallen in influence or impact, Forbes said.
Here are the top 10 women on the list: 
1. Angela Merkel - German Chancellor
2. Hillary Clinton - US presidential candidate and former First Lady
3. Melinda Gates - co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
4. Janet Yellen - Chair of the US Federal Reserve
5. Mary Barra - CEO of General Motors
6. Christine Lagarde - Managing director of the International Monetary Fund
7. Dilma Rousseff - President of Brazil
8. Sheryl Sandberg - Chief Operating Officer of Facebook
9. Susan Wojcicki - CEO of YouTube
10. Michelle Obama - First lady of the United States
Photos:Reuters

