Personalize your weather by entering a location.
Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.
BREAKING NEWS Rahm Emanuel wins second term as Chicago mayor
Mayor Rahm Emanuel to serve 2nd term in Chicago
Mayor Rahm Emanuel won a second term in office after the first mayoral runoff election in Chicago history.
Embed
By
CHICAGO  (WLS) --
Mayor Rahm Emanuel was out thanking voters Wednesday after winning re-election in Chicago. It wasn't an easy victory, and the mayor said it has changed him.
Emanuel beat Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garcia with 55 percent of the vote, compared to 44 percent for the challenger. Although the vote was decidedly in Emanuel's favor, he said he was humbled by the experience.
After six weeks and millions of dollars in extra campaigning for the first mayoral runoff election in Chicago history, Emanuel will be mayor for another four years.
In his speech Tuesday night, Emanuel expressed his gratitude, saying there is no other city around the world where an immigrant from Mexico and the Jewish grandson of an immigrant from Moldova can run for the city's highest office.
Emanuel acknowledged that a lack of popularity forced him into this runoff. The mayor said he is going to have to do better in his next term.
"I want to thank you for putting me through (the) paces. I will be a better mayor for that. I will carry your voices and your concerns into the mayor's office," Emanuel said.
"I think the mayor's heard about the good things he's done, the tough choices he's made and the tough choices ahead. It's a sobering experience, let me tell you," said Alderman Tom Tunney, 44th Ward.
While people at Garcia's headquarters may not have been celebrating a victory, they said their voices were heard.
"I have something to say to the next generation: To all the little boys and girls watching, we didn't lose today. We tried today," Garcia said.
Garcia said the thousands of votes supporting his candidacy will help to ensure middle-class voices are not ignored moving forward.
"We may have fallen short today, but we will make sure these people's voices are heard. We will not stop fighting for people. Not today, not tomorrow, not ever," Garcia said.
Moving forward, Emanuel must find a way to resolve the city's $300 million operating deficit and come up with a $550 million pension payment before the end of the year.
The mayor said he cannot promise everyone will be happy with every decision he makes. But he also said those challenges will be faced as one community where all voices count.
ALDERMANIC RACES
Election Day included runoff elections for 18 aldermanic seats in Chicago. Some were still too close to call Wednesday morning.
None of the races are as close as the one in the 10th Ward. Only seven votes separate challenger Susan Sadlowski Garza from incumbent John Pope.
In the 16th ward, Toni Foulkes has the edge against Stephanie Coleman. Foulkes was the former 15th Ward alderman, until remapping. Coleman is the daughter of a former alderman.
The results of the 21st Ward are being contested. Incumbent Howard Brookins is claiming a narrow victory over Marvin McNeil.
But McNeil told ABC7 Eyewitness News that he will be at the Chicago Board of Elections when it opens on Wednesday, asking for a recount.
Brookins has represented the 21st Ward since 2003. As the chair of City Council's Black Caucus, he is one of the more familiar faces at City Hall. But last December, his chief of staff pleaded guilty to federal bribery charges. That may have led to the runoff.
"My head is bloodied, but unbowed. I'm really relieved that the people have given me another opportunity, another lease on life, to represent them for four more years and continue the work that we've done," Brookins said.
McNeil is a former city worker. He was once a zoning code inspector for the City of Chicago.
"You thought that Duke-Wisconsin game was tight. We're getting ready to go into overtime." McNeil said.
It's a very tight race in the 31st Ward, where a longtime alderman is not conceding defeat. Incumbent Ray Suarez trails by a little more than 130 votes. Challenger Milly Santiago declared victory Tuesday night.
"I know I didn't have the money that my opponent had. I didn't have the millions. But I have a big heart and I did have the most dedicated group of volunteers," Santiago said.
Suarez is not giving up. He said absentee votes still need to be counted. Suarez has represented the 31st Ward since 1991.
"I want to thank all my supporters. Thank them for all their hard work, thank the good lord for giving us a wonderful day and see what happens tomorrow," Suarez said Tuesday night.
Related Topics:
Personalize your weather by entering a location.
Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

