China Outlines Bid to Build Up Its Naval Power
In a handout photo provided by the U.S. Navy, Chinese dredging vessels are seen in the waters around Mischief Reef in the disputed Spratly Islands in the South China Sea on May 21, 2015. (NYT)
China intends to project naval power in the open ocean in coming years, and not just defend the country's coastal waters, according to a strategy paper released on Tuesday.
The paper, the first policy document issued by the Chinese military in two years, comes at a time of growing Chinese assertiveness in the South China Sea. China's efforts to enforce its disputed claims to vast stretches of the sea by building up artificial islands and structures on reefs and outcroppings have drawn the Philippines and its ally the United States into a test of wills in the region.
The dispute between Beijing and Washington escalated last week when a U.S. military surveillance plane flew near Fiery Cross Reef, a contested atoll in the Spratly Islands that has been the site of frenetic dredging work in recent months. Chinese forces repeatedly ordered the U.S. plane to leave the area, and a Foreign Ministry spokesman later called the flight "irresponsible and dangerous."
The Pentagon said earlier this month that it was weighing whether to send warships and aircraft into what it says are international waters, but which China says are within its zone of control.
On Tuesday, in an act of defiance likely to further inflame tensions in the region, China's state media announced that construction work had begun on two lighthouses in the Spratlys, adding to a growing array of Chinese-built structures that have been identified in satellite photos, including radar facilities and a runway capable of handling military aircraft.
The policy document, released on Tuesday by the State Council, lays out China's military ambitions, referred to as "national rejuvenation," as Beijing moves to counter what it sees as U.S. efforts to contain its rise.
It extends beyond naval policy to emphasize the continued modernization of the Chinese military in general, and it describes cyberwarfare as a "grave security threat" that requires the development of a cybermilitary force. But Western analysts said the document's emphasis on improving naval capabilities and projecting force far from China's coastline was the most striking facet of the paper.
Col. Steve Warren, a Defense Department spokesman, said that the Chinese government had informed the United States about the strategic paper almost a year ago.
"We have repeatedly called on the Chinese for transparency, and frankly, this is an example of transparency," Warren told reporters on Tuesday.
"Their strategy is their strategy," he added. "What we want to focus on is the fact that they released the strategy publicly, which is exactly the type of thing that we've been calling for."
Jeff Rathke, a State Department spokesman, said on Tuesday that the Obama administration would "continue to monitor China's military developments carefully."
Dennis J. Blasko, an Asia analyst at CNA Corp. who studies China's armed forces, said the paper formally enunciates a transformation that the military has been going through for some time, and that has gained pace in recent years.
"This basically confirms everything that the vast majority of analysts have seen developing: the trends toward a greater maritime force, a stronger air force and improved missile forces," said Blasko, a former Army attach&#233; at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. "Still, even if it's something we've been expecting, it's a new statement and a big statement."
Although the strategy paper mentions the United States only in passing, it leaves little doubt about whom it perceives as China's opponent, blaming "some external countries" for "meddling in South China Sea affairs."
At a news conference discussing the strategy paper, Yang Yujun, a Defense Ministry spokesman, made clear that China regards those affairs as no one's business but its own. "Looking from the angle of sovereignty, China's development of construction on its islands is no different at all from all the other types of construction going on around the country," he said.
Chinese military strategists have long signaled their intention to improve the nation's naval strength and reduce its reliance on its land forces, which have been dominant since the 1940s. In recent years the People's Liberation Army, which takes in all branches of the military including the navy, has invested in new submarines, launched the nation's first aircraft carrier and announced plans to restructure the armed forces, although it has released few details. According to Blasko, the navy accounts for about 10 percent of the PLA's 2.3 million members, while about 17 percent serve in the air force; nearly all the rest are in the army.
Analysts said that the tensions in the South China Sea were one factor accelerating Beijing's efforts to build up its naval and air strength. But events elsewhere have also played a role, prompting Chinese leaders to abandon long-held policies that discouraged overseas military engagement.
In 2008, during the height of Somali piracy in the Gulf of Aden, China sent two destroyers and a supply ship to the region, the first time it had dispatched battle-ready warships beyond the Pacific. In April, it sent three naval vessels to Yemen, where it evacuated hundreds of Chinese and other foreign nationals from the conflict-torn country.
"The traditional mentality that land outweighs sea must be abandoned, and great importance has to be attached to managing the seas and oceans and protecting maritime rights and interests," the strategy paper said. "It is necessary for China to develop a modern maritime military force structure commensurate with its national security and development interests."
Xu Guangyu, a retired major general who is now a senior counselor with the China Arms Control and Disarmament Association, said the report's emphasis on "open sea protection" was a sign of China's spreading economic and diplomatic footprint abroad. "As China continues to rise, it has enormous interests around the globe that need protection," he said, "including investments, trade, energy, imports and the surging presence of Chinese living abroad."
Still, he noted that the document stressed Beijing's determination to deter foreign aggression and its resolve to win a war started by others.
"China will actively build up its military capability and deterrence, just to make sure no one dares fight with us," said Xu, whose institute advises the Chinese Foreign Ministry. "The United States cannot expect China to back off under pressure. It needs to know that the consequences would be unthinkable if it pushes China into a corner."
The United States has not taken a position on the overlapping territorial claims in the South China Sea, parts of which are claimed by the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia and Brunei as well as China. Washington says the disputes should be resolved through diplomatic means.
But the administration insists that none of the claimants should interfere with international navigation in the area, and in recent days Pentagon officials have said they have no intention of halting U.S. reconnaissance flights near the contested islets.
Bernard D. Cole, a professor at the National War College in Washington, said the strategy paper suggests that there is little chance that China will relinquish its territorial ambitions in the South China Sea, which is rich in oil, gas and fishing resources.
 
Related
Quick Links


Beijing brushes off South China Sea complaints, adopts aggressive military stance
U.S., allies take issue with artificial islands, naval bases in disputed waters
atoll: China’s alleged ongoing reclamation of Mischief Reef in the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea is raising notices of Western nations concerned China may be attempting to assert dominance. (Associated Press) more >
By Guy Taylor -      The Washington Times -                                    Tuesday, May 26, 2015
U.S. officials pushed back Tuesday against China ’s attempt to justify its construction of artificial islands and naval bases in the contested South China Sea — and expressed wariness over a new Chinese Defense Ministry policy paper that analysts say is the most assertive military document issued to date by Beijing .
Calling for an expanded role for China ’s military in projecting power in the years ahead, the white paper blames China ’s neighbors for taking “provocative actions” in sovereignty disputes playing out over the region’s many reefs and island chains.
It calls on the Chinese navy to increase its “open seas protection” operations in the face of such provocation and says the Chinese air force should shift its focus “from territorial air defense to both defense and offense.”
The document was released at a rare news conference held in Beijing on Tuesday by uniformed Chinese military officers — one of whom made headlines by asserting that there is nothing unusual about an aggressive Chinese land reclamation project that has been underway for the past year in a disputed corner of the South China Sea, one of the world’s busiest and most economically critical shipping lanes.
Satellite images published last month by IHS Jane’s Defense Weekly showed Chinese vessels building a 1,600-foot-long runway in the Spratly Islands, an archipelago of reefs, islets and atolls at the center of mounting territorial fights between China , the Philippines , Vietnam , Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan.
Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun on Tuesday described China ’s runway construction as perfectly natural, asserting that it is comparable to the building of ordinary homes and roads on the Chinese mainland. “From the perspective of sovereignty, there is absolutely no difference,” he said.
The comments triggered unease in Washington , where State Department spokesman Jeff Rathke said U.S. officials “take a different view” of China ’s activities in the Spratlys. “ China ’s extensive land-reclamation efforts,” Mr. Rathke said, “have contributed to rising tensions” in the region.
China has bristled at what it sees as U.S. interference in the region and says it is within its sovereign rights in developing islands made from sand piled on top of reefs and atolls. The U.S. and many of China ’s neighbors see the island-building as an upending of the status quo by China to bolster its claims to the region and possibly pave the way for military installations far from the mainland.
The Chinese policy paper was made available in both Chinese and English, suggesting that Beijing wanted Washington to take note of the document.
In an apparently veiled reference to the U.S., the document said that “some external countries are also busy meddling in South China Sea affairs” and that “a tiny few maintain constant close-in air and sea surveillance and reconnaissance against China .”
The release of Tuesday’s policy paper in Beijing followed a formal Chinese protest over an incident last week in which a Chinese navy dispatcher warned off a U.S. Navy P8-A Poseidon surveillance aircraft as it flew over Fiery Cross Reef — the actual site of China ’s runway construction project.
The incident, documented by a CNN news crew on board the U.S. plane, prompted a biting editorial Monday in the official Communist Party newspaper Global Times, which warned Washington not to test Beijing ’s restraint or China would have “no choice but to engage.”
Not taking sides
While analysts downplayed the threat as hollow bluster, the Obama administration appears to have little appetite for diplomatically confronting China over its sovereignty claims in the South China Sea.
Mr. Rathke on Tuesday suggested that the administration is not taking sides in the sovereignty disputes playing out in the region, which is said to be traversed by an estimated $5 trillion in shipborne trade annually.
Shares
Shares
Question of the Day
Guy Taylor is the National Security Team Leader at The Washington Times, overseeing the paper’s State Department, Pentagon and intelligence community coverage. He’s also a frequent guest on The McLaughlin Group and C-SPAN.
His series on political, economic and security developments in Mexico won a 2012 Virginia Press Association award.
Prior to rejoining The Times in 2011, his work was ...
Latest Stories

