April 10, 2015 10:05 PDT
CARSON CITY, Nev. (AP) -- Transgender activists and progressive groups say they're appalled with a proposed Nevada law forcing students to use bathrooms corresponding to their biological sex.
Republican Assemblywoman Vicki Dooling is sponsoring AB375, which was discussed Friday in the Assembly Judiciary Committee.
The bill would require students in public schools to use locker rooms and restrooms based on their sex at birth. Dooling said schools would need to provide separate facilities for transgender students and the bill would extend student privacy protections.
Transgender students and activists testified against the bill and said it would lead to more discrimination and bullying against transgender students who tend to face higher rates of suicide and discrimination.
The committee took no immediate action on the measure. The bill would need a committee vote on Friday to survive.
Black bear released in Northern Nevada
Thursday, April  9 2015, 09:39 PM
DOUGLAS COUNTY, Nev. -- A black bear captured in the early morning hours Wednesday in the rural area of Jack’s Valley was released Thursday. 
This came after biologist Carl Lackey tranquilized the bear, performed a biological assessment and affixed a satellite collar to monitor its future movements.
"Four years of drought is really really hard on the Bears. And their natural foods -- the hard and soft mass food like all the berries and pinenuts -- just aren't going to produce. 
The Bears will be down here looking for an easy source of food," Lackey said.
Wednesday, April  8 2015, 01:44 PM
WASHINGTON (AP) — Senators are compiling a secret encyclopedia of American intelligence collection, trying to get a handle on hundreds of sensitive, closely held surveillance programs. It's part of an effort to improve congressional oversight of America's sprawling global spying effort.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein initiated the Intelligence Committee review in October 2013. That was after information leaks by former National Security Agency employee Edward Snowden about NSA surveillance, including eavesdropping on German Chancellor Angela Merkel's cellphone.
Feinstein, a California Democrat, initially wasn't sure that Republican Sen. Richard Burr of North Carolina, who took her place as chairman of the panel in January, would agree to continue the review. But Burr and Feinstein recently reached an agreement to do so.
©2015 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
© 2014, Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.

