More News Headlines
More Opinion Headlines
More Sports Headlines
More Business Headlines
More Food Headlines
More Entertainment Headlines
Lifestyle Sections
More Lifestyle Headlines
More Multimedia Headlines
Log in
Voters on Tuesday to decide how state chief justice is selected
By Patrick Marley of the Journal Sentinel
April 5, 2015 2:13 p.m.
Madison— Voters will decide Tuesday whether to allow the members of the state Supreme Court to choose the chief justice, rather than have that post go to the most senior member of the court.
Supporters argue it would make the court more democratic and the chief justice more accountable to the other justices. Detractors contend the measure is aimed at dislodging Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson from occupying the court's top position.
"Our system is set up in a way that does not lend itself to collegiality," said former Justice Jon Wilcox. "It's an antiquated system and that's why 22 other states do it the way we're suggesting."
But former Justice Janine Geske — like Wilcox an appointee of Republican Gov. Tommy Thompson — said the proposal is aimed at demoting Abrahamson. The seniority-based system has been in place for 125 years.
"This is clearly targeted at the current chief justice because certain groups don't want her as chief justice," she said.
Abrahamson is a liberal leading a court controlled by conservatives. Democratic Gov. Patrick Lucey appointed her to the court in 1976 and she became chief justice in 1996. Nationally known, Abrahamson is the longest-serving chief justice in Wisconsin history.
In December, she criticized the proposal for "injecting the ugliness of partisan politics into the judiciary."
The measure's sponsors deny that. In a statement, Rep. Rob Hutton (R-Brookfield) said he advanced the measure because "it is imperative that our Supreme Court justices have the ability to choose who they think is most qualified for the position."
In Tuesday's election, the referendum question has become the main battleground between liberal and conservative groups. Those groups have been less involved in the race for a seat on the Supreme Court, in which Justice Ann Walsh Bradley faces a challenge from Rock County Judge James Daley.
Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce, the state's largest business lobbying group, has given $600,000 to a group running radio and TV ads backing the change on selecting the chief justice.
Meanwhile, the union-backed Greater Wisconsin Committee has given $280,000 to a group running radio and TV ads featuring Geske that argue against the change.
Seven states determine who is chief justice based on seniority, while 22 states have court members choose their chief justice, according to the National Center for State Courts . In the remaining states, the chief justice is appointed or directly elected by voters.
To get the question on the ballot in Wisconsin, Republican lawmakers had to approve the proposal in 2013 and again this year . Voters will have the final say on the matter.
If approved, the state constitution would be amended to have the justices elect one of the court's members to serve as chief justice for a two-year term.
It would be left to the court to determine how such elections would be conducted. The justices have squabbled over minor and major issues in recent years, and they may dispute how to proceed.
"There is divisiveness and that will continue," Geske said. "It's certainly not going to make it better. I don't know what it will make it worse. It might."
But Wilcox said changing the system for choosing the chief justice would make the members of the court act with more civility.
"People say it's going to politicize the court. How more politicized could it be than it is now?" Wilcox said.
Opponents of the measure say Abrahamson should remain the chief because voters knew she held that post when they re-elected her to another 10-year term in 2009. Others say if voters change the constitution, the court should select a new chief justice right away.
© 2015 , Journal Sentinel Inc. All rights reserved.
About Patrick Marley
Patrick Marley covers state government and state politics. He is the author, with Journal Sentinel reporter Jason Stein, of "More Than They Bargained For: Scott Walker, Unions and the Fight for Wisconsin.”
E-mail Newsletter
The latest local news delivered to your inbox Monday-Friday around noon – or whenever there’s big breaking news.
Enter your e-mail address above and click "Sign Up Now!" to begin receiving your e-mail newsletter Get the Newsletter!
Login or Register to manage all your newsletter preferences.
All Politics Blog
From Madison and around the state, to Washington D.C., a daily dose of political news and glimpses behind the scenes.
Journal Sentinel coverage of the legislature, governor's office and other state politics in Madison and around Wisconsin.

