Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Gov. Scott Walker is becoming something of a globe-trotter as world affairs loom large
Post to Facebook
Gov.Walker builds on overseas resume Gov. Scott Walker is becoming something of a globe-trotter as world affairs loom large Check out this story on wisconsinrapidstribune.com: http://shebpr.es/1ymA0U3
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Scott Bauer, Associated Press 8:42 p.m. CDT April 11, 2015
Gov. Scott Walker
MADISON – Gov. Scott Walker is becoming something of a globe-trotter as world affairs loom large in the 2016 Republican presidential race and attention has been drawn to his early foreign policy stumbles.
He began a weeklong visit to Germany, France and Spain on Friday, and in May plans to go to Israel, a touchstone for many U.S. politicians with presidential aspirations. Meantime his political group, Our American Revival, has bulked up on staffers to coach Walker on foreign policy, a gap in his resume as he considers entering the GOP presidential contest.
Walker faltered during a London trip in February, refusing to answer questions about foreign policy during an appearance at an international affairs think tank and dodging questions about evolution. Back at home, in an otherwise well-received speech to conservative activists, he drew ridicule when he suggested that his political fight with labor union protesters in Wisconsin helped prepare him to combat global terrorism as president.
When Walker said this week he would revoke a nuclear deal with Iran on his first day in the White House, President Barack Obama said the governor should "bone up on foreign policy."
Walker called that remark "unbelievable."
The governor has had less experience abroad than many of his potential 2016 rivals. He didn't travel overseas at all the first two years he was governor, or in 2014 when running for re-election. In 2013, he went to China and Japan.
Walker's trip to Europe is a trade mission, with two public events planned in Germany and the rest of his meetings behind closed doors.
"To me, if you're doing your job well, obviously there's a political advantage," he told The Associated Press. "Talking about anything other than trade issues related to the state is not appropriate.
"Beyond that, if I was just on a political trip overseas, I still wouldn't talk about that. I'm old school. I believe in that tradition when you're on foreign soil you shouldn't be talking about foreign affairs," he said.
That tradition is commonly understood to mean that U.S. politicians, while abroad, do not criticize U.S. foreign policy or the president, not that they decline to discuss international affairs.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Read or Share this story: http://shebpr.es/1ymA0U3
More Stories

