NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
For several hours on Sunday, anticipation of Hillary Rodham Clinton ’s presidential campaign announcement was all-consuming for loyal Democrats and others across America and overseas — including one likely Republican candidate, Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin , who was keeping tabs on her kickoff during his trade mission in Germany.
And when the news did not come at noon, as reports had said it would, impatience set in — “O.K. so when is she going to announce?” Peter Van Dam of New York wrote on Facebook around 1 p.m. — and plans started being rearranged for the year’s warmest Sunday in much of the nation.
CreditAssociated Press
The moment was thrilling — OMG she’s doing it! — as well as anticlimactic. The afternoon’s blown; what’s for dinner?
City Councilman Corey Johnson of Manhattan was among those with Clinton fever. In between bites of poached eggs and sips of iced coffee over brunch in SoHo, where he helped two friends plan their wedding, Mr. Johnson scanned Facebook, Twitter and YouTube on his iPhone every few minutes for the only news that he and other Democratic insiders were talking about this weekend. Mr. Johnson kept searching for the #Hillary hashtag on social media.
“All the elected officials were referencing Hillary’s big announcement,” Mr. Johnson said by email of a Lower East Side political event where he finally learned the news.
“LGBT Americans were over the Ready for Hillary phase and have been in the ‘Just Do It!’ phase,” he added, referring to the names of a pro-Clinton advocacy group and a Nike slogan.
In Chappaqua, N.Y., where the Clintons have a home, the mood was practically giddy. Dawn Greenberg, who used to own a gift shop that Mrs. Clinton was known to visit on King Street, the town’s main drag, organized a group of about 30 local business owners and leaders of nonprofits who were planning to gather in the garden of Le Jardin du Roi, a local bistro, for a celebratory drink on Sunday evening.
“All day long my phone’s been ringing; we’ve been Facebook messaging each other — when’s it going to be, when’s it going on,” said an agitated Ms. Greenberg, the executive director of Chappaqua’s chamber of commerce, as she waited for the official campaign announcement to appear online.
At Mrs. Clinton’s campaign headquarters-in-waiting in Brooklyn, seven news media vans were parked outside — including one from an Italian television station — and a few dozen reporters milled around.
Dozens of passers-by stopped to take pictures of the strange posters of a spooky-looking Mrs. Clinton that had suddenly appeared on street signs and bus shelters in the neighborhood. The posters distorted Mrs. Clinton’s face and included words like “entitled,” “secretive” and “ambitious”; they were clearly not from her supporters.
Not everyone in politics was on Clinton Time, of course. Steve Schmidt, a Republican strategist and adviser to John McCain’s 2008 campaign, chimed in by email from Augusta, Ga.
“I’m at the Masters,” he wrote. “Did she do something today?”
Vivian Yee and Tatiana Schlossberg contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on April 13, 2015, on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: A Nation Is United, Attention Divided . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...

