NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
By JADA F. SMITH
Photo
The I.R.S. building in Washington. The agency said that criminals had been able to view thousands of tax returns. Credit Drew Angerer for The New York Times
Advertisement
WASHINGTON —  Criminals used stolen data to gain access to past tax returns of more than 100,000 people through an application on the Internal Revenue Service ’s website, the agency said on Tuesday.
Using Social Security numbers, birth dates, street addresses and other personal information obtained elsewhere, the criminals completed a multistep authentication process and requested the tax returns and other filings, the I.R.S. said. Information from those returns was used to file fraudulent returns, the I.R.S. said, and the agency sent nearly $50 million in refunds before it detected the scheme.
“We’re confident that these are not amateurs,” John Koskinen, the I.R.S. commissioner, said. “These actually are organized crime syndicates that not only we but everybody in the financial industry are dealing with.”
The agency has opened an investigation into the breach and has temporarily shut down the Get Transcript application, which was used to gain access to the information. More than 200,000 attempts to view the past returns using stolen information were made from February to mid-May, and about half were successful. It is unclear whether the criminals were operating inside or outside the United States.
Dealing with fraudulent tax claims has been a challenge for the I.R.S. as cybercrime has grown more sophisticated in recent years. The agency paid $5.8 billion in falsely claimed refunds in 2013.
“Eighty percent of the identify theft we’re dealing with and refund fraud is related to organized crime here and around the world,” Mr. Koskinen said at a news conference on Tuesday. “These are extremely sophisticated criminals with access to a tremendous amount of data.”
This year, the I.R.S. stopped almost three million suspicious returns, Mr. Koskinen said, and officials say that new computer filters that look for anomalies have helped prevent identity theft .
Senate Finance Committee aides said Mr. Koskinen called the committee’s chairman, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, late last week to notify him of the breach. The committee kept it quiet while law enforcement officials opened the investigation.
Word of the breach prompted Republicans to increase their attacks on the tax collection agency, which have been made since revelations that the I.R.S. had intentionally targeted political organizations for extra scrutiny of their tax-exempt applications.
“That the I.R.S. — home to highly sensitive information on every single American and every single company doing business here at home — was vulnerable to this attack is simply unacceptable,” Mr. Hatch said. “What’s more, this agency has been repeatedly warned by top government watchdogs that its data security systems are inadequate against the growing threat of international hackers and data thieves.”
But the breach is also likely to prompt the Obama administration to redouble its efforts to increase the I.R.S.’s budget, which has been cut 18 percent since 2010, adjusting for inflation. Since 2010, the agency has shed more than 13,000 employees, or 14 percent of the work force, with nearly 10,000 lost jobs coming from the enforcement staff, which is down 20 percent since 2010.
Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan and the ranking member of the House Ways and Means Committee, said he had spoken with Mr. Koskinen, who assured him that the I.R.S. was getting to the bottom of the problem. “It is important that members of Congress work together to ensure that the I.R.S. has adequate resources to carry out the vital priority of protecting confidential taxpayer information,” he said.
The agency sent letters to the taxpayers whose accounts had been compromised, and it will offer them free credit monitoring. The I.R.S. said its main computer system, which handles tax filings, had not been breached. “During this filing season, taxpayers successfully and safely downloaded a total of approximately 23 million transcripts,” the agency said.
Jonathan Weisman contributed reporting.


0
0
0
0
A woman walks out of the Internal Revenue Service building in New York in this May 13, 2013, file photo. The agency revealed a hack had potentially exposed the tax information of more than 100,000 claims. Reuters
Hackers have hit the Internal Revenue Service hard the past few years, but a recent string of incidents affecting more than 100,000 tax returns could have exposed the private tax information of as many as 200,000 taxpayers. The culprit behind the leak was a poorly secured program run and operated by the IRS.
Computer thieves broke into the system “Get Transcript,” and according to the Associated Press , funneled duplicate copies of the previous year’s tax returns to file fraudulent ones. Compromised information includes Social Security numbers, dates of birth, income, tax filing status and street addresses. The system was attacked from February to mid-May and has been shut down until proper security protocols can be addressed.
"We're confident that these are not amateurs," IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said. He said these are the kinds of criminals “everybody in the financial industry” is struggling with. CNNMoney reported the information break-in means hackers can use legitimate looking personal answers to file a fraudulent tax return in a future year.
To thwart the thieves, the IRS has moved the potentially 200,000 claims affected by the information leak onto a closely monitored list and provided a paid credit-protection program free of charge.  The Washington Post said fraudulent IRS filings have skyrocketed 3,700 percent, costing the IRS $50 million this tax season. That amount came from a paltry 15,000 fraudulent returns, which means the more than 100,000 returns intercepted by hackers could mean serious damage if they were paid out by the IRS.
“Get Transcript” provided taxpayers with an estimated 23 million copies of their tax returns. Now if one needs a copy of a previous year’s tax return, one will have to resort to the good old fashioned paper route until the security breach is resolved. 
1
2
4
7
Like us
Follow us
Join us

