NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
By JADA F. SMITH
Photo
The I.R.S. building in Washington. The agency said that criminals had been able to view thousands of tax returns. Credit Drew Angerer for The New York Times
Advertisement
WASHINGTON —  Criminals used stolen data to gain access to past tax returns of more than 100,000 people through an application on the Internal Revenue Service ’s website, the agency said on Tuesday.
Using Social Security numbers, birth dates, street addresses and other personal information obtained elsewhere, the criminals completed a multistep authentication process and requested the tax returns and other filings, the I.R.S. said. Information from those returns was used to file fraudulent returns, the I.R.S. said, and the agency sent nearly $50 million in refunds before it detected the scheme.
“We’re confident that these are not amateurs,” John Koskinen, the I.R.S. commissioner, said. “These actually are organized crime syndicates that not only we but everybody in the financial industry are dealing with.”
The agency has opened an investigation into the breach and has temporarily shut down the Get Transcript application, which was used to gain access to the information. More than 200,000 attempts to view the past returns using stolen information were made from February to mid-May, and about half were successful. It is unclear whether the criminals were operating inside or outside the United States.
Dealing with fraudulent tax claims has been a challenge for the I.R.S. as cybercrime has grown more sophisticated in recent years. The agency paid $5.8 billion in falsely claimed refunds in 2013.
“Eighty percent of the identify theft we’re dealing with and refund fraud is related to organized crime here and around the world,” Mr. Koskinen said at a news conference on Tuesday. “These are extremely sophisticated criminals with access to a tremendous amount of data.”
This year, the I.R.S. stopped almost three million suspicious returns, Mr. Koskinen said, and officials say that new computer filters that look for anomalies have helped prevent identity theft .
Senate Finance Committee aides said Mr. Koskinen called the committee’s chairman, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, late last week to notify him of the breach. The committee kept it quiet while law enforcement officials opened the investigation.
Word of the breach prompted Republicans to increase their attacks on the tax collection agency, which have been made since revelations that the I.R.S. had intentionally targeted political organizations for extra scrutiny of their tax-exempt applications.
“That the I.R.S. — home to highly sensitive information on every single American and every single company doing business here at home — was vulnerable to this attack is simply unacceptable,” Mr. Hatch said. “What’s more, this agency has been repeatedly warned by top government watchdogs that its data security systems are inadequate against the growing threat of international hackers and data thieves.”
But the breach is also likely to prompt the Obama administration to redouble its efforts to increase the I.R.S.’s budget, which has been cut 18 percent since 2010, adjusting for inflation. Since 2010, the agency has shed more than 13,000 employees, or 14 percent of the work force, with nearly 10,000 lost jobs coming from the enforcement staff, which is down 20 percent since 2010.
Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan and the ranking member of the House Ways and Means Committee, said he had spoken with Mr. Koskinen, who assured him that the I.R.S. was getting to the bottom of the problem. “It is important that members of Congress work together to ensure that the I.R.S. has adequate resources to carry out the vital priority of protecting confidential taxpayer information,” he said.
The agency sent letters to the taxpayers whose accounts had been compromised, and it will offer them free credit monitoring. The I.R.S. said its main computer system, which handles tax filings, had not been breached. “During this filing season, taxpayers successfully and safely downloaded a total of approximately 23 million transcripts,” the agency said.
Jonathan Weisman contributed reporting.


May 26, 2015
Hackers successfully accessed—stole—personal information, including tax return data, from over 100,000 U.S. taxpayers. In a series of attacks that took place from February to mid-May, the hackers utilized the IRS's "Get Transcript" system to access all of the personal information that would be on a tax return, from birthdays and social security numbers to addresses. The motivation behind the attack is, apparently, an extensive plot to claim fraudulent tax returns using stolen identities. According to the IRS, over $5.8 billion USD in fraudulent refunds were sent out in the year 2013, alone.
According the IRS, the criminals create a fake tax return that is eligible for a sizeable refund. They make sure to do this early in the tax season, before the actual taxpayer's employers have had a chance to send the IRS legitimate wage documents, and before the genuine taxpayer has filed a return. These tax refunds are often automatically sent directly to prepaid debit cards, allowing the criminal organizations to walk away with the money.
If you haven't been able to apply for your tax records through the IRS website, it is because the IRS has shut down the online "Get Transcript" feature since they noticed the attacks. So, if you need copies of previous tax filings for something like a loan application, you will need to apply the old-fashioned way, by mail.
These aren't your run-of-the-mill independent hackers. According to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen,
"We're confident that these are not amateurs. These, actually, are organized crime syndicates that no only we, but everybody in the financial industry are dealing with."
It will be difficult for the IRS to try to sweep the security breach under the rug. U.S. Congress is needling the IRS for information, and the IRS has already launched a criminal investigation in the matter.
If you are concerned whether your information was accessed, the IRS says it will be contacting taxpayers whose data was accessed during the breach.
Source: AP
Story Timeline
Site Information

