NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
By JADA F. SMITH
Photo
The I.R.S. building in Washington. The agency said that criminals had been able to view thousands of tax returns. Credit Drew Angerer for The New York Times
Advertisement
WASHINGTON —  Criminals used stolen data to gain access to past tax returns of more than 100,000 people through an application on the Internal Revenue Service ’s website, the agency said on Tuesday.
Using Social Security numbers, birth dates, street addresses and other personal information obtained elsewhere, the criminals completed a multistep authentication process and requested the tax returns and other filings, the I.R.S. said. Information from those returns was used to file fraudulent returns, the I.R.S. said, and the agency sent nearly $50 million in refunds before it detected the scheme.
“We’re confident that these are not amateurs,” John Koskinen, the I.R.S. commissioner, said. “These actually are organized crime syndicates that not only we but everybody in the financial industry are dealing with.”
The agency has opened an investigation into the breach and has temporarily shut down the Get Transcript application, which was used to gain access to the information. More than 200,000 attempts to view the past returns using stolen information were made from February to mid-May, and about half were successful. It is unclear whether the criminals were operating inside or outside the United States.
Dealing with fraudulent tax claims has been a challenge for the I.R.S. as cybercrime has grown more sophisticated in recent years. The agency paid $5.8 billion in falsely claimed refunds in 2013.
“Eighty percent of the identify theft we’re dealing with and refund fraud is related to organized crime here and around the world,” Mr. Koskinen said at a news conference on Tuesday. “These are extremely sophisticated criminals with access to a tremendous amount of data.”
This year, the I.R.S. stopped almost three million suspicious returns, Mr. Koskinen said, and officials say that new computer filters that look for anomalies have helped prevent identity theft .
Senate Finance Committee aides said Mr. Koskinen called the committee’s chairman, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, late last week to notify him of the breach. The committee kept it quiet while law enforcement officials opened the investigation.
Word of the breach prompted Republicans to increase their attacks on the tax collection agency, which have been made since revelations that the I.R.S. had intentionally targeted political organizations for extra scrutiny of their tax-exempt applications.
“That the I.R.S. — home to highly sensitive information on every single American and every single company doing business here at home — was vulnerable to this attack is simply unacceptable,” Mr. Hatch said. “What’s more, this agency has been repeatedly warned by top government watchdogs that its data security systems are inadequate against the growing threat of international hackers and data thieves.”
But the breach is also likely to prompt the Obama administration to redouble its efforts to increase the I.R.S.’s budget, which has been cut 18 percent since 2010, adjusting for inflation. Since 2010, the agency has shed more than 13,000 employees, or 14 percent of the work force, with nearly 10,000 lost jobs coming from the enforcement staff, which is down 20 percent since 2010.
Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan and the ranking member of the House Ways and Means Committee, said he had spoken with Mr. Koskinen, who assured him that the I.R.S. was getting to the bottom of the problem. “It is important that members of Congress work together to ensure that the I.R.S. has adequate resources to carry out the vital priority of protecting confidential taxpayer information,” he said.
The agency sent letters to the taxpayers whose accounts had been compromised, and it will offer them free credit monitoring. The I.R.S. said its main computer system, which handles tax filings, had not been breached. “During this filing season, taxpayers successfully and safely downloaded a total of approximately 23 million transcripts,” the agency said.
Jonathan Weisman contributed reporting.


Posted 8:37 pm, May 26, 2015, by CNN Wire
×
Criminals use IRS website to steal data on 100,000 people
U.S. Internal Revenue Service building, Washington D.C. Courtesy: CNN
NEW YORK — A “sophisticated” organized crime syndicate used the IRS website to steal tax forms full of personal financial information on 104,000 taxpayers, the agency said Tuesday.
Until the IRS discovered this latest data leak, its website provided a service called “Get Transcript.” It’s an easy way to download several years of tax forms for tasks like applying for a mortgage, or college financial aid.
An unnamed cybermafia used this app to download forms full of personal information. They posed as legitimate taxpayers, and tried to download forms on 200,000 people between February and May. They got away with half of them, the IRS said.
The crooks used about 15,000 of them to claim tax refunds in other people’s names.
But the potential damage is worse. IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said he believes the criminals’ true mission was to gather vast amounts of personal information. Armed with that info, fraudsters can open bank accounts, credit lines and steal tax refunds in the future.
“This is just the latest manifestation of people getting enough data to masquerade as a taxpayer,” Koskinen said.
Last week, the IRS spotted an odd flood of computer traffic and initially thought its website was facing a cyberattack to block its services. But on further investigation, it discovered that the slew of requests were pulling data from its “Get Transcript” service and the agency immediately cut off communication.
This cyberattack wasn’t a hack in the traditional sense. The IRS said criminals were able to use the Get Transcript service, because they plugged in personal data they had already stolen: Social Security numbers, birthdays, physical addresses and more. They even answered correctly those personal identity verification questions — the ones we all know as being too specific, annoying and difficult to answer ourselves.
This shows their intent was to gain even more personal data: accurate salary information, and details on specific tax deductions people take.
It was an attack the agency wasn’t well suited to combat, Koskinen said. “We’re dealing with criminals with a lot of money and using expensive equipment and hiring a lot of smart people,” he said during a conference call Tuesday.
The IRS has temporarily disabled the “Get Transcript” service. It was too easy to game, Koskinen said. The agency had tried to make the service difficult for fraudsters — but not too burdensome for the average person trying to get a hold of previous years’ tax returns.
The agency is now trying to increase the security on the app — and figure out the right balance, Koskinen said.
This is a popular tool. In recent months, Americans used it to download 23 million transcripts, the agency said. Taxpayers can still request previous years’ documents, but they’ll have to do it via the older and slower process — by paper.
The IRS said it will notify by mail all 200,000 people who might be affected by this. They will all be placed on a list of Americans whose tax profiles are more closely monitored next year. To assist the victims, the IRS is also offering paid credit protection programs for them.
The agency is offering a secure PIN to the 104,000 whose tax forms the IRS is sure were exposed. It’s not offering that protection to the other 100,000 people — even though they arguably need it too (given that criminals already have their Social Security numbers and can already claim tax refunds in their names).
The PIN program is a permanent security feature that requires taxpayers to use a six-digit passcode when filing taxes. Currently, all that is required is a Social Security number.
PINs are currently only available to tax fraud victims and residents of Florida, Georgia and Washington. The agency wants to take this pilot program nationwide.
Koskinen said there is “no indication there is any connection” to the recent wave of fraud involving TurboTax preparation software.
But he said this is just more proof criminals are ramping up their theft of personal data for illicit gain.
“These guys are very good at data analytics. They have volumes of data available they can match up,” he said. “The criminals can answer questions better than you can.”
IRS law enforcement agents are now hunting for the fraudsters who did this, and the agency’s own internal investigator is looking into how this happened.
Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network , Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Popular
• Copyright © 2015, KDVR
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

