Originally published April 8, 2015 at 3:43 pm
Graphic shows number of state dinners held by president; 2c x 5 inches; 96.3 mm x 127 mm;
FILE – In this Feb. 11, 2014, file photo, President Barack Obama, center, offers a toast on stage to French President Francois Hollande at the State Dinner on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington. Obama has held the fewest number of state dinners since Harry S. Truman, who left office 62 years ago. In his first six years, Obama held just seven state dinners. He’ll hold at least two more this year, for the leaders of Japan, on April 28, 2015 and China, later in the year. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais, File)
0 of 0
By DARLENE SUPERVILLE
The Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — Guess who’s coming to dinner at the White House?
Not as many people as you might expect. President Barack Obama has held the fewest number of state dinners since Harry Truman occupied the Oval Office 70 years ago.
Obama held seven state dinners during his first six years in office. At least two more are planned for this year. Truman held office for nearly eight years and hosted six state dinners, according to the White House Historical Association.
A state visit is the highest diplomatic honor the U.S. reserves for a country, typically an ally. It includes a state dinner where the two countries publicly celebrate their relationship. Some things to know about White House state dinners:
Most Read Stories
WHAT DOES THE WHITE HOUSE SAY ABOUT OBAMA’S RECORD?
It says Obama’s overall level of engagement with foreign counterparts and the different ways he interacts with them are considered more important than the number of state dinners penciled on his calendar. White House spokesman Patrick Ventrell says a state dinner is one diplomatic tool at the president’s disposal, but it isn’t the only one.
Obama has met hundreds of times with his counterparts and other foreign officials in settings as formal as the Oval Office and as casual as a Hawaiian golf course.
___
WHICH PRESIDENTS HELD THE MOST STATE DINNERS?
Lyndon B. Johnson held 54 state dinners in the five years and two months that he held office in the 1960s, according to the White House association. Guests of honor at Johnson’s dinners included the shah and the prime minister of Iran, and the president of Upper Volta, since renamed Burkina Faso, among other guests.
Ronald Reagan had the second-highest number, a total of 52 state dinners during two full terms in office.
___
WHICH NATIONS WERE INVITED MOST OFTEN?
The United Kingdom. It has been honored with 20 state dinners, most recently in 2012.
Fifteen dinners have been held for Italy, most recently in 2008 under George W. Bush.
Israel has been the guest of honor at 14 state dinners, its last appearance coming in 1999.
___
AFRICA ANYONE?
African countries have been the guest of every president on the White House association’s list, except for Truman and Obama.
George W. Bush was the last president to hold a state dinner for an African country: Kenya and Ghana.
The countries of Ethiopia, Tunisia, Liberia and Egypt were frequent guests at one time.
___
Japan and China will be honored this year.
The White House has announced an April 28 visit and state dinner by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
The dinner for Chinese President Xi Jinping is expected later in the year.
___

