Just call him Mittstradamus. (Julio Cortez/Associated Press)
When Duke defeated Wisconsin, 68-63 , for the national championship , it wasn’t just a huge triumph for Coach Mike Krzyzewski and his team. The win also gave Mitt Romney one more reason to crow about his uncannily accurate NCAA tournament bracket.
On Sunday, Romney shared his bracket with the Huffington Post , and as The Washington Post’s Hunter Schwarz wrote on Monday, it not only put the former presidential candidate in the, ahem, one percent, but in the 0.1 percent. In other words, Romney’s slew of correct picks — including nailing the Elite Eight and Final Four matchups and results  — put him in the 99.9th percentile out of the 11.57 million brackets submitted to ESPN’s Web site.
Mitt Romney's ESPN bracket tied for 6,326th overall out of 11.57 million brackets (99.9 percentile)
Oh, and Romney’s picks also fared much better than President Obama’s much-publicized bracket, although the former would surely have preferred to best Obama in a different contest.
Mitt Romney's NCAA bracket is better than 997 out of every 1,000 brackets (h/t @ScottFConroy ) http://t.co/t0D3HfJuH1 pic.twitter.com/HARRsF34DL
And all this was before Monday’s title game, which, of course, Romney had accurately forecast. When the buzzer sounded on the Blue Devils’ win over the Badgers, Romney took the opportunity to both brag and make a joking reference to a gaffe he committed during a 2012 Republican primary debate.
Should have put $10,000 on my bracket. Congrats, Coach K and @DukeU .
This former editor and part-time writer at The Post is now happy to prove that if you combine 'blowhard' and 'blaggard,' you get 'blogger.' He previously had used 'Desmond Bieler' as his byline, but feels that shortening the first name to 'Des' nicely conveys his ever-decreasing gravitas. He also covers Fantasy Football.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

