Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
What role will Bill Clinton play in Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign?
Post to Facebook
Bill Clinton ready to be Hillary's 'backstage adviser' What role will Bill Clinton play in Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign? Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1yl6j5Z
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
31
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Bill Clinton ready to be Hillary's 'backstage adviser'
Catalina Camia , USA TODAY 10 a.m. EDT April 11, 2015
The Clintons attend the Clinton Global Initiative's 10th Annual Meeting at in New York on Sept. 24, 2014.
(Photo: Michael Loccisano, Getty Images)
WASHINGTON —  Don't expect Bill Clinton to be the campaigner in chief for Hillary Clinton as she launches her second presidential bid — at least not initially.
The former president, perhaps the most gregarious and naturally gifted politician of his generation, is viewed as a critical asset for Clinton, as she embarks on a campaign that is widely expected to be different from the race she ran against Barack Obama in the 2008 Democratic primary.
"I think it's important, and Hillary does too, that she go out there as if she's never run for anything before and establish her connection with the voters," Bill Clinton told Town and Country magazine in a story published Tuesday. "And that my role should primarily be as a backstage adviser to her until we get much, much closer to the election."
Chris Lehane, a Democratic consultant who worked in the Clinton White House, said Bill Clinton is a weapon that shouldn't go unfired for too long.
"If you're manager of a baseball team and you have Willie Mays on the bench, you put him in the game," Lehane said.
Hillary Clinton will announce her long-awaited candidacy Sunday, according to the Associated Press and numerous news reports.  Republicans are eager to make the former secretary of State an issue — whether it's for her use of a private email account while serving as the nation's top diplomat or her response to the deadly 2012 attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya.
Since he left office in January 2001, Bill Clinton has been the favorite surrogate of Democratic candidates across the country. He traveled to nearly half the states during the 2014 election season, headlined dozens of rallies and fundraisers, recorded robo-calls, cut videos and more in what turned out to be a disappointing year for Democrats at the polls.
The former president is still hugely popular: An NBC/Wall Street Journal poll taken in March showed 56% of adults have a somewhat positive or very positive view of him, while 26% say they have a somewhat negative or very negative view. Clinton's ratings are higher than those of Obama (44%-43%) and George W. Bush (35%-39%).
He is also more popular than Hillary Clinton, with 44% of Americans in the NBC/Wall Street Journal poll saying they had a positive view of her compared with 36% who have a negative one.
Al Gore, Hillary Clinton and Bill Clinton wave to the crowd in Vandalia, Ill., during their bus campaign across the Midwest in July 1992.
 (Photo: Greg Gibson, AP)
Bill Clinton's skill at translating big ideas and complicated issues, such as the Affordable Care Act, into concepts that resonate with voters prompted President Obama to dispatch him across the country with great effect during his 2012 re-election campaign.
Clinton "is probably the most important political surrogate in the country of any party," said Bill Burton, a Democratic strategist and former Obama aide in the 2008 campaign and White House. "He can draw a lot of attention and he can excite activists. He can frame arguments in a way that no one else can, which is why President Obama made him the Secretary of Explaining Stuff."
During Hillary Clinton's 2008 campaign, her husband frequently introduced her at rallies, dialed for dollars and whipped up enthusiastic crowds at his own events on her behalf. But there were missteps that she would like to avoid in 2016.
Hillary Clinton apologized to African Americans for comments her husband made during the 2008 South Carolina primary comparing Obama's victory there to Jesse Jackson's 1984 and 1988 victories in the state. Bill Clinton had also called Obama's opposition to the Iraq War "the biggest fairy tale I've ever seen."
"I want to put that in context. You know I am sorry if anyone was offended. It was certainly not meant in any way to be offensive," Hillary Clinton told the publishers of black community newspapers in March 2008. "We can be proud of both Jesse Jackson and Senator Obama."
Hillary Clinton addresses the crowd as Bill Clinton and Chelsea Clinton stand behind her at a primary night event in Indianapolis on May 6, 2008.
 (Photo: Joe Raedle, Getty Images)
Don Fowler, a former Democratic National Committee chairman close to both Clintons, said the news media treated the former president unfairly during the 2008 incident in South Carolina. But he concedes Bill Clinton has to be careful in the 2016 campaign.
"I don't think his role should be up front and out in public," Fowler said. "I don't think it would be appropriate for them to share the stage … He'll be close to planning and coaching but I don't think this will be a shared campaign."
Clinton, for his part, sounded humble in the Town and Country story focused on his family foundation's efforts in Haiti about whether he still has the fire in the belly to be an effective campaigner. The former president, now 68, suggested he's mellowed since daughter Chelsea gave birth to baby Charlotte last year.
"I've told Hillary that I don't think I'm good (at campaigning) anymore, because I'm not mad at anybody," he said. "I'm a grandfather, and I got to see my granddaughter last night, and I can't be mad."
Follow @ccamia on Twitter.
Hillary Rodham Clinton is shown in her 1965 senior class high school portrait. 
(Photo: AP)
(Photo: AP)
(Photo: Donald R. Broyles, AP)
(Photo: Greg Gibson, AP)
(Photo: J. David Ake, AFP/Getty Images)
(Photo: Stephan Savoia, AP)
(Photo: J. Scott Applewhite, AP)
(Photo: Danny Johnston, AP)
(Photo: USA TODAY)
(Photo: Richard Drew, AP)
(Photo: Marcy Nighswander, AP)
(Photo: John Duricka, AP)
(Photo: Reuters)
(Photo: Rick T. Wilking, Reuters)
(Photo: Christine Grunnet, Reuters)
(Photo: Wilfredo Lee, AP)
(Photo: Pool/AFP)
(Photo: Charles Tasnadi, AP)
(Photo: Charles Tasnadi, AP)
(Photo: Yuri Kadobnov, AFP)
(Photo: Luke Frazza, AFP)
(Photo: Doug Mills, AP)
(Photo: John Stillwell, AP)
(Photo: Matt Mendelsohn, USA TODAY)
(Photo: Doug Mills, AP)
(Photo: Ed Bailey, AP)
(Photo: Ed Reinke, AP)
(Photo: Greg Gibson, AP)
(Photo: H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY)
(Photo: State Department)
(Photo: George Burns, AP)
(Photo: Tim Dillon, USA TODAY)
(Photo: J. Scott Applewhite, AP)
(Photo: AP/Vogue, Annie Leibovitz)
(Photo: Susan Walsh, AP)
(Photo: Ed Andrieski, AP)
(Photo: Susan Walsh, AP)
(Photo: Kathy Willens, AP)
(Photo: Tim Dillon, USA TODAY)
(Photo: Lynsey Addario, AP)
(Photo: Ron Edmonds, AP)
(Photo: Tim Dillon, USA TODAY)
(Photo: Kathy Willens, AP)
(Photo: Mary Altaffer, AP)
(Photo: Roberto Schmidt, AFP)
(Photo: Tim Dillon, USA TODAY)
(Photo: Timothy A. Clary, AFP/Getty Images)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Darren McCollester, Getty Images)
(Photo: Win McNamee, Getty Images)
(Photo: Joe Raedle, Getty Images)
(Photo: Todd Plitt, USA TODAY)
(Photo: Dana Edelson, AP)
(Photo: Spencer Platt, Getty Images)
(Photo: Ron Edmonds, AP)
(Photo: Elise Amendola, AP)
(Photo: Pat Shannahan, for USA TODAY)
(Photo: Jack Gruber, USA TODAY)
(Photo: Park Ji-Hwan, AFP/Getty Images)
(Photo: Denis Farrell, AFP/Getty Images)
(Photo: Mark Wilson, AP)
(Photo: Barbara Kinney, AP)
(Photo: Kevin Lamarque, AP)
(Photo: Kevin Lamarque, AP)
(Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images)
(Photo: Kevin Wolf, AP)
(Photo: Jack Gruber, USA TODAY)
(Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images)
(Photo: Mark Lennihan, AP)
(Photo: Jack Gruber, USA TODAY)
(Photo: Andrew Burton, Getty Images)
(Photo: Steve Pope, Getty Images)
(Photo: AP)
(Photo: David Zalubowski, AP)
(Photo: Andrew Gombert, European Pressphoto Agency)
Replay
Autoplay
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1yl6j5Z

