Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
D.C. power outages reported at White House, Capitol
A widespread power outage in Washington, D.C., affected the White House, the Capitol, the University of Maryland and other buildings Tuesday afternoon.
Post to Facebook
D.C. power outages reported at White House, Capitol A widespread power outage in Washington, D.C., affected the White House, the Capitol, the University of Maryland and other buildings Tuesday afternoon. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1Fy6meb
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
26
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
D.C. power outages reported at White House, Capitol
WUSA-TV, Washington 2:40 p.m. EDT April 7, 2015
A U.S. Secret Service Uniform Division patrol vehicle blocks eastbound traffic at the intersection of 18th Street NW and Pennsylvania Avenue after an electrical blackout affected the White House and other government buildings in the area.
(Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images)
WASHINGTON — An explosion at a Maryland power plant is to blame for a region-wide power outage that affected the White House, the Capitol, the University of Maryland and other buildings in D.C. and Maryland on Tuesday afternoon, according to an official.
D.C. Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management spokeswoman Robyn Johnson told the Associated Press that the outage affected 8,000 customers in the District.
Southern Maryland Electric Company (SMECO) showed approximately 21,832 customers without power on its outage map in the early afternoon. Spokesman Tom Denison said the outage was due to a transmission line problem that they are trying to track down.
Breaking: The power just went out at the US State Department.
More than 2,000 Pepco customers were without power in the capital city. The Associated Press reported that the White House and the Capitol building were affected by the outage. People were also reporting power outages in parts of Maryland, including at the University of Maryland.
The university's president tweeted that the campus will close at 2 p.m. due to the outage and crews are helping people stuck in elevators and locked buildings.
The FBI reported that there was nothing immediately nefarious about the power outage.
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority officials tweeted that some train stations were on emergency lighting but that all trains had power and were moving.
Members of the Secret Service stand on Pennsylvania Avenue outside the White House during a power outage on April 7 in Washington.
 (Photo: Susan Walsh, AP)
@Metrorail tweeted: "All Metrorail stations remain open and trains have power. If you encounter a dark area (station on backup power) please use caution."
Union Station, the city's commuter and Amtrak station, lost power, according to VRE at 1:15 p.m. Trains were held until power was restored. Trains were delayed between 10 and 30 minutes.
The power also reportedly went out while Oprah Winfrey was talking at the dedication ceremony for the Maya Angelou postage stamp.
The Smithsonian tweeted that some of its museums were impacted and they were evacuated by the outage.
In case you wanted to see what a museum looks like when there's a power outage. pic.twitter.com/HuZxYNLjBT
Some of the outages have been brief as power was restored to the Capitol and the White House.
Oprah Winfrey gestures up as the lights go out during her speech at the unveiling of the Maya Angelou Forever Stamp on Tuesday, April 7, 2015, at the Warner Theater  in Washington. The White House, State Department, and Capitol were all affected by reports of widespread power outages across Washington and its suburbs Tuesday.
 (Photo: Jacquelyn Martin, AP)
Brief power outage at the White House. Off for about 5-10 seconds then back on. Photog says he's never seen that happen before.
Power just went out on @Oprah - she's now quoting "Phenomenal Woman" without a mic. #ForeverMaya @wusa9 pic.twitter.com/oc1Fa7aOMk
There is a campus-wide power outage. Crews are working on addressing the problem. Thank you for your patience.
Elevator telling me it's out of service... Um duh im stuck in here I know
There are widespread outages throughout the D.C. metro area. We are currently investigating the situation.
White House briefing room lit as usual, despite DC power outage. pic.twitter.com/d0iBD4xovT
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1Fy6meb
USA NOW
Apr 07, 2015

