In American politics, there are certain breeds of politicians who are unfit for public office. These are the people — conservative or progressive — who should be quickly shown the door by voters.
These are the politicians who commit such atrocious acts that they are untrustworthy to wield political power, people who abuse justice, trample the rule of law and assassinate standards of fair play.
U.S. Sen. Harry Reid is such a man, the worst that human nature has to offer. The respectable political figures of our country should now breathe sighs of relief that Reid has finally announced his sudden retirement from the Senate. This announcement comes after “a long string of corruption scandals” involving Reid, according to Judicial Watch.
Reid’s pugnacious schemes in the Senate included running roughshod over the Republican minority to such egregious lengths that he smothered the Senate’s history of collegiality. While unfortunate, that’s not what makes him such a disgrace. In an effort to block more Harry Reids from imposing such scorched-earth politics, it’s important to understand exactly what this man has done.
In 2006, Reid reportedly made a cool, secret $1.1 million profit on a land deal near Las Vegas for property he had not owned personally for many years, according to Judicial Watch. The transaction violated Senate disclosure rules and included allegations that Reid dealt with shadowy, mob-connected friends. Judicial Watch states this occurred during the time that Reid  allegedly took $30,000 in tainted money from disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff “in return for his ‘cooperation’ in matters related to Nevada Indian gaming,” and that Reid was enjoying expensive, exclusive ringside boxing tickets from a Nevada state athletic commission trying to influence him on regulatory matters.
Two years earlier, Reid “secured $21.5 million” in government money to build a questionable bridge over the Colorado River to link a gambling resort town with Bullhead City, where Reid owned 160 acres of undeveloped land, according to the Washington Post.
Then, in 2012, FoxNews reported that Reid secured $47 million in earmarked financial sponsorships that benefitted groups that his son, Key, lobbied for or had affiliations with. The same year, Reid helped another son, Rory, in a scandal involving a “green energy” Chinese client of Rory Reid’s law firm. The elder Reid was accused by Reuter’s of using “political muscle” to advocate on behalf of the client, which acquired property “well below appraised value” in a questionable transaction, according to Judicial Watch and Reuter’s.
The following year, Reid made Judicial Watch’s most corrupt politician list again for “taking more than $230,000 in illegal campaign funds from a shady donor.” The donor, who later went to jail for the crimes, “hired four of the senator’s sons at a law firm … and then worked with Reid on seven huge land deals that required federal legislation,” Judicial Watch reported.
Then, just this month, the inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security reported that two years ago, Reid brazenly intervened to pressure the agency to benefit Reid’s “political allies and family,” according to the Breitbart Newsletter. The abusive interference involved pressuring the agency to approve visa applications to allow 230 foreign investors to release money from escrow to fund “a $415 million financing plan” for properties in Las Vegas, for which Reid’s son was providing legal services. The “visas were approved in time to satisfy the banks, the owners… and Senator Reid,” the Breitbart report said, concluding that Reid’s “brute political force upon the executive branch of the federal government” was a threat to the “rule of law in the United States.”
Reid has also exposed himself as a man who will not hesitate to destroy a political opponent’s reputation with fabrications and outright lies. BizPac Review recently reported that Reid used “the floor of the United States Senate to slander presidential candidate Mitt Romney as a tax evader during the 2012 election.” Politifact later reported on the incident, saying that “Reid has made an extreme claim with nothing solid … no evidence … to back it up.”
The country does not need politicians who abuse their power to make untrue public statements about opponents and engage in outrageous, self-serving behavior that benefits themselves, their families and their cronies. Good riddance to Harry Reid, for whom politics is a family business.
Latest posts by John R. Smith ( see all )
From Around The Web
About John R. Smith
John R. Smith is chairman of BIZPAC, the Business Political Action Committee of Palm Beach County, and owner of a financial services company.
Kenneth Clark
All assets of Reid and Sons should be seized. He should be charged, arrested and convicted for the crimes he and his family have committed. Pelosi should experience the same along with the Clintons.
Subscribe to Our Newsletter
Most Commented
Trending Now
Featured Video
Archive
×
Email*

