Posted:   04/07/2015 02:48:44 PM PDT
Updated:   04/07/2015 02:57:13 PM PDT
The California Supreme Court on Wednesday will consider how far cities can go in trying to provide more affordable housing across the state as housing prices and rents continue to soar.
In a challenge to San Jose's five-year-old affordable housing ordinance, the state's high court will hold arguments in Los Angeles in a case that tests a policy tool now in place in cities stretching from Santa Monica to Napa.
The Supreme Court is specifically reviewing a legal challenge to a San Jose law that would require housing developers to include affordable, below-market priced units for low-income buyers on any new projects within the city. The so-called "inclusionary housing" law has been on hold since the building industry sued to block it several years ago.
The League of California Cities and California State Association of Counties, which back San Jose in the case, estimate about 170 local governments have put versions of the law in place to deal with the state's shortage of affordable housing, considered an acute problem in Silicon Valley and around the Bay Area.
"It was always assumed these were legal until this case," said San Jose City Attorney Richard Doyle. "There is a need for affordable housing, yet tools we've been given (such as redevelopment money) have been taken away. These ordinances are seen as the last, best hope."
Advertisement
The state building industry, backed by groups such as the California Association of Realtors, considers such legislation a strong-arm tactic that in the long run will drive up already exorbitant housing prices. They maintain such laws will force developers to simply pass along the cost of subsidizing below-market units to new home buyers.
In particular, the industry argues the law is an unconstitutional "taking" of property and that San Jose has not established a connection between the building of new housing and the affordable housing problem. Cities, they argue, make that case in forcing developers to pay fees to cover the impact of new housing developments on things such as local schools and parks, but haven't done so for affordable housing.
"This is not at all about whether affordable housing is something important for the city to provide," said Anthony Francois, a Pacific Legal Foundation lawyer challenging the law. "This is really about what the city has to do legally."
San Jose's law would require developers to offer 15 percent of units in new projects of 20 or more units at below-market rates. Developers could opt out of building affordable units by paying a fee, which the housing industry estimates could run about $122,000 per house.
The courts have so far given such laws a mixed review. A Santa Clara County judge invalidated San Jose's ordinance in 2012, but it was upheld a year later by an appeals court, prompting the state Supreme Court's intervention.
Courts in the past have upheld Napa's law, although the state Supreme Court recently placed restrictions on how they are enforced in a challenge to Palo Alto's.
Housing advocates warn of dire consequences if the Supreme Court strikes down San Jose's affordable housing regulation. California has been considered a model for such laws, designed to not only provide more low-income housing but to get it built in a larger cross-section of neighborhoods.
"It's huge," said Tim Iglesias, a University of San Francisco law school expert on housing issues. "If the court were to go against San Jose here, it would be a national statement. This is part of a much bigger, broader battle."
Howard Mintz covers legal affairs. Contact him at 408-286-0236 or follow him at Twitter.com/hmintz

