Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Don't Miss Out —
Follow us on:
Malaysia barred a student leader of pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong from entry because his name was on a watch list, the nation’s immigration chief said.
Joshua Wong -- co-founder of the student activist group Scholarism -- was among people barred from entering Malaysia, Immigration Director-General Mustafa Ibrahim said in a statement Tuesday. The country’s police chief, Abu Bakar Khalid, additionally told Agence France-Presse that Malaysia was concerned Wong’s plan to speak about civil rights in China could jeopardize ties with the country.
“The official on duty found that Wong has been listed among people who are barred from entering this country,” Mustafa said, without saying why Wong’s name was on the list. “The immigration official carried out the process of denying the entry of a foreign citizen to this country following the standard operating procedures that have been set.”
Wong helped lead demonstrations that blocked key Hong Kong business districts for more than two months last autumn to protest China’s proposal to vet candidates for the city’s first leadership election. The Occupy Central movement, which ended in December, represented the biggest challenge to China’s rule since the British returned control of the former colony in 1997.
Malaysia has blocked foreign politicians from entering its borders before. In February 2013, Australian lawmaker Nick Xenophon was expelled from Malaysia where he had planned to meet local politicians including then-opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim before Malaysia’s general election that year.
Airport Checkpoint
Wong announced the immigration dispute on Facebook Tuesday afternoon after he was prevented from passing through an airport checkpoint in the northwestern state of Penang. Wong returned to Hong Kong and canceled plans to participate in a local forum where he was expected to speak about the China’s Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989.
“The Malaysian government says I threaten its national security,” Wong wrote in a separate post on Twitter. With reference to demonstrations in Hong Kong and Beijing, he said: “I don’t understand how the Umbrella Movement and Tiananmen Square demonstrations have anything to do with Malaysia’s political situation.”
Khalid, Malaysia’s inspector general of police, told Agence France-Presse that authorities were concerned Wong’s speech would harm national security and that allowing someone with a history of making what he called anti-Chinese remarks could damage ties with the government in Beijing. The police chief didn’t immediately respond to a text message seeking comment.
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:


27 May 2015
Joshua Wong returns to Hong Kong after he was barred from Malaysia. He said no reason was given for the decision except that it was a "government order". Photo: RTHK
Is China forcing friendly nations to suppress free speech in HK?
China this week showed its political influence in the region, albeit indirectly, with profound implications for Hong Kong.
Malaysia, a former British colony, was at the center of the tour de force.
On Tuesday, Malaysian authorities barred student activist Joshua Wong from entering the country where he was to discuss Beijing’s June 4 crackdown and last year’s democracy protests in Hong Kong at a student forum.
Wong said no reason was given for the decision except that it was a “government order” but he suspected the move was politically motivated.
When he asked Hong Kong authorities to make inquiries with their Malaysian counterparts, he was told to “respect the decision”.
The decision caught many people in Hong Kong by surprise and some critics speculated that Wong might be on a Malaysian blacklist.
Granted it’s all speculation, it has not stopped people from thinking China might have had a hand in the incident and that it might have talked to other countries about people like Wong.    
But why Malaysia?
The country is not a close Beijing ally, although it has its own issues about political dissent and youth disaffection.
Still, Wong could not have upended the status quo with his presence at the forum. It’s likely Chinese officials in the country told their Malaysian counterparts how they would prefer to deal with Wong.
Some Malaysian observers said the government was trying to preempt whatever influence Wong might have on the country’s disaffected youths who have been demonstrating against corruption and social inequality since the beginning of the year.
China insists it does not meddle in the domestic affairs of other countries but the Malaysia incident looks like a template for dealing with visiting Chinese activists.
Whether or not there’s direct intervention from Beijing, governments are mindful of what China might say.
It is Beijing’s invisible hand that is moving the needle in this kind of diplomacy.     
On Wednesday, several news reports said some pro-Beijing Malaysian businessmen pressed Kuala Lumpur about Wong.
Beijing, of course, won’t admit any meddling, but it can exert political influence simply by leveraging its economic clout.
Being friendly to China does Malaysia no harm. The question is whether other countries friendly to China feels the same way. 
This is important because the issue goes to the heart of Hong Kong’s right of free speech.
The Basic Law guarantees that right and other freedoms for 50 years after the 1997 change of sovereignty to China.
“One country, two systems”, under which Hong Kong functions as a free society in a communist country, is the basis of international recognition of its existence and way of life.
It would be the end of Hong Kong as we know if foreign nations make exceptions to that principle just because they value good relations with China above all else.
– Contact us at english@hkej.com
Most Popular 24 Hrs
{"timed-popup-delay":8,"enable-exit-intent-popup":"true","cookie-duration":14,"popup-selector":"#popup-box-sxzw-1","popup-class":"popupally-opened-sxzw-1","cookie-name":"popupally-cookie-1","close-trigger":".popup-click-close-trigger-1"}
Don't Miss Anything

