Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Don't Miss Out —
Follow us on:
Malaysia barred a student leader of pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong from entry because his name was on a watch list, the nation’s immigration chief said.
Joshua Wong -- co-founder of the student activist group Scholarism -- was among people barred from entering Malaysia, Immigration Director-General Mustafa Ibrahim said in a statement Tuesday. The country’s police chief, Abu Bakar Khalid, additionally told Agence France-Presse that Malaysia was concerned Wong’s plan to speak about civil rights in China could jeopardize ties with the country.
“The official on duty found that Wong has been listed among people who are barred from entering this country,” Mustafa said, without saying why Wong’s name was on the list. “The immigration official carried out the process of denying the entry of a foreign citizen to this country following the standard operating procedures that have been set.”
Wong helped lead demonstrations that blocked key Hong Kong business districts for more than two months last autumn to protest China’s proposal to vet candidates for the city’s first leadership election. The Occupy Central movement, which ended in December, represented the biggest challenge to China’s rule since the British returned control of the former colony in 1997.
Malaysia has blocked foreign politicians from entering its borders before. In February 2013, Australian lawmaker Nick Xenophon was expelled from Malaysia where he had planned to meet local politicians including then-opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim before Malaysia’s general election that year.
Airport Checkpoint
Wong announced the immigration dispute on Facebook Tuesday afternoon after he was prevented from passing through an airport checkpoint in the northwestern state of Penang. Wong returned to Hong Kong and canceled plans to participate in a local forum where he was expected to speak about the China’s Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989.
“The Malaysian government says I threaten its national security,” Wong wrote in a separate post on Twitter. With reference to demonstrations in Hong Kong and Beijing, he said: “I don’t understand how the Umbrella Movement and Tiananmen Square demonstrations have anything to do with Malaysia’s political situation.”
Khalid, Malaysia’s inspector general of police, told Agence France-Presse that authorities were concerned Wong’s speech would harm national security and that allowing someone with a history of making what he called anti-Chinese remarks could damage ties with the government in Beijing. The police chief didn’t immediately respond to a text message seeking comment.
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:


Malaysiakini’s editorial position is built on fast, accurate and independent news, and well informed and diverse views.
Absurd that Joshua Wong can be a security threat
The Progressive University of Malaya is disappointed with the deportation of Hong Kong Occupy Movement Activist Joshua Wong from Malaysia at Penang International Airport yesterday. Members of the Progressive University of Malaya were looking forward to meet him in person on Friday where he was scheduled to speak at the Council of Churches in Petaling Jaya, but are now unable to do so due to the deportation.
We find it incomprehensible as his presence in Malaysia can be perceived as a threat to national security and was deported by the Immigration Department. We find it absurd that a pro-democracy activist can be seen as a threat to the nation and is now compared to an actual terrorist.
It is a golden opportunity for fellow Malaysians to be hearing from him in person on his experience during the Hong Kong Occupy Movement which serves as an inspiration to many who aspire for better democracy in this nation.
We would like to remind the government of Malaysia that it was Prime Minister Najib Abdul Razak’s promise back in 2011 to make Malaysia the best democracy in the world. The Immigration Department Malaysia and the Home Ministry must answer with reason why an unarmed 18-year-old boy can be seen as a threat to national security.
Efforts can be made to curb real terrorist instead deporting visitors who pose no potential harm to the public safety of this country.
We hope that the deportation issue is not what it is perceived as an attempt by the Malaysian authorities to curry favour with the mainland Chinese government which is of Communism ideology and contradict with our principles of a democratic state.
Being a country with a history of hostility towards leftist movement and leftist ideas, we would find it hypocritical if such perception is found to be true and the motive behind it is to safeguard our trade and commerce interest with China.
As university students we look forward to exchange views with fellow students particularly those who are abroad. We cannot see the nexus between how an 18-year-old student can be a threat to national security just because of different ideas. Malaysian authorities should not be selective in welcoming foreign visitors and all visitors should be treated equally.
The Progressive University of Malaya urges the Malaysian authorities to allow Joshua Wong to return to Malaysia for future events and not arbitrarily deport him or any other foreign visitors without any solid and just reasons. This would not shape well on our image at international level.
Should Joshua Wong or any other foreign visitor to our country commits any offence which is against the law, it is only then that the authorities should act on the matter as a person is innocent until proven guilty.
 
 

