Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Don't Miss Out —
Follow us on:
Malaysia barred a student leader of pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong from entry because his name was on a watch list, the nation’s immigration chief said.
Joshua Wong -- co-founder of the student activist group Scholarism -- was among people barred from entering Malaysia, Immigration Director-General Mustafa Ibrahim said in a statement Tuesday. The country’s police chief, Abu Bakar Khalid, additionally told Agence France-Presse that Malaysia was concerned Wong’s plan to speak about civil rights in China could jeopardize ties with the country.
“The official on duty found that Wong has been listed among people who are barred from entering this country,” Mustafa said, without saying why Wong’s name was on the list. “The immigration official carried out the process of denying the entry of a foreign citizen to this country following the standard operating procedures that have been set.”
Wong helped lead demonstrations that blocked key Hong Kong business districts for more than two months last autumn to protest China’s proposal to vet candidates for the city’s first leadership election. The Occupy Central movement, which ended in December, represented the biggest challenge to China’s rule since the British returned control of the former colony in 1997.
Malaysia has blocked foreign politicians from entering its borders before. In February 2013, Australian lawmaker Nick Xenophon was expelled from Malaysia where he had planned to meet local politicians including then-opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim before Malaysia’s general election that year.
Airport Checkpoint
Wong announced the immigration dispute on Facebook Tuesday afternoon after he was prevented from passing through an airport checkpoint in the northwestern state of Penang. Wong returned to Hong Kong and canceled plans to participate in a local forum where he was expected to speak about the China’s Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989.
“The Malaysian government says I threaten its national security,” Wong wrote in a separate post on Twitter. With reference to demonstrations in Hong Kong and Beijing, he said: “I don’t understand how the Umbrella Movement and Tiananmen Square demonstrations have anything to do with Malaysia’s political situation.”
Khalid, Malaysia’s inspector general of police, told Agence France-Presse that authorities were concerned Wong’s speech would harm national security and that allowing someone with a history of making what he called anti-Chinese remarks could damage ties with the government in Beijing. The police chief didn’t immediately respond to a text message seeking comment.
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:


Established since 1963
Published on: Wednesday, May 27, 2015
Selangor: Hong Kong student activist Joshua Wong was barred from entering Malaysia at Penang Airport on Tuesday.
He was refused entry at the Penang International Airport in Bayan Lepas after touching down at 11.55am on Tuesday.
He was scheduled to attend a forum titled 'The Uprising of Youth and New Social Activism in Singapore and Hong Kong' at Auditorium A in Komtar Tuesday night.
Forum organising committee member Chin Kae Min said Wong, who was one of the three speakers at the forum, was deported immediately on the next flight at 12.55am.
He said the Immigration personnel had withheld his passport upon his arrival here, without citing any reason.   He said the forum would continue despite the absence of Wong.
The 18-year-old student leader is said to have been scheduled to speak at forums in Penang, Ipoh, Johor and Petaling Jaya on June 3, the eve of the 26th anniversary of Tiananmen Square Massacre.
After hearing of that Wong was denied entry to Malaysia, NGO leaders took to Twitter to express thier views.   "Malaysia... explain why he is sent back to Hong Kong? Afraid of more street protests," tweeted Bersih 2.0 chairman Maria Chin Abdullah.
"Our government must grow up, don't be small minded - Joshua Wong is a pro democracy activist. Is that a crime to bar him from entering Malaysia," questioned civil liberties lawyer Eric Paulsen on Twitter.
"Joshua Wong, 18, too dangerous to step foot in Malaysia? Strange and embarrassing," tweeted human rights lawyer Michelle Yesudas.
Wong has become the face of Hong Kong's pro-democracy student protest movement, leading students in a massive protest in 2014.
He was later charged on November last year with obstructing a bailiff clearing one of Hong Kong's three protest areas.
He was banned from a large part of Mong Kok, an area in the Yau Tsim Mong District in Hong Kong.
In December 2014, he and two other students began a hunger strike and demanded the Hong Kong government to restarts dialogues on electoral reform.
Four days into the strike, he decided to end it due to 'strong urging from the doctor'.
Wong was arrested once again in January for questioning over his involvement in civil-disobedience offences over the pro-democracy demonstrations.
Site Search

