Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Don't Miss Out —
Follow us on:
Malaysia barred a student leader of pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong from entry because his name was on a watch list, the nation’s immigration chief said.
Joshua Wong -- co-founder of the student activist group Scholarism -- was among people barred from entering Malaysia, Immigration Director-General Mustafa Ibrahim said in a statement Tuesday. The country’s police chief, Abu Bakar Khalid, additionally told Agence France-Presse that Malaysia was concerned Wong’s plan to speak about civil rights in China could jeopardize ties with the country.
“The official on duty found that Wong has been listed among people who are barred from entering this country,” Mustafa said, without saying why Wong’s name was on the list. “The immigration official carried out the process of denying the entry of a foreign citizen to this country following the standard operating procedures that have been set.”
Wong helped lead demonstrations that blocked key Hong Kong business districts for more than two months last autumn to protest China’s proposal to vet candidates for the city’s first leadership election. The Occupy Central movement, which ended in December, represented the biggest challenge to China’s rule since the British returned control of the former colony in 1997.
Malaysia has blocked foreign politicians from entering its borders before. In February 2013, Australian lawmaker Nick Xenophon was expelled from Malaysia where he had planned to meet local politicians including then-opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim before Malaysia’s general election that year.
Airport Checkpoint
Wong announced the immigration dispute on Facebook Tuesday afternoon after he was prevented from passing through an airport checkpoint in the northwestern state of Penang. Wong returned to Hong Kong and canceled plans to participate in a local forum where he was expected to speak about the China’s Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989.
“The Malaysian government says I threaten its national security,” Wong wrote in a separate post on Twitter. With reference to demonstrations in Hong Kong and Beijing, he said: “I don’t understand how the Umbrella Movement and Tiananmen Square demonstrations have anything to do with Malaysia’s political situation.”
Khalid, Malaysia’s inspector general of police, told Agence France-Presse that authorities were concerned Wong’s speech would harm national security and that allowing someone with a history of making what he called anti-Chinese remarks could damage ties with the government in Beijing. The police chief didn’t immediately respond to a text message seeking comment.
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:

