Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Don't Miss Out —
Follow us on:
Malaysia barred a student leader of pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong from entry because his name was on a watch list, the nation’s immigration chief said.
Joshua Wong -- co-founder of the student activist group Scholarism -- was among people barred from entering Malaysia, Immigration Director-General Mustafa Ibrahim said in a statement Tuesday. The country’s police chief, Abu Bakar Khalid, additionally told Agence France-Presse that Malaysia was concerned Wong’s plan to speak about civil rights in China could jeopardize ties with the country.
“The official on duty found that Wong has been listed among people who are barred from entering this country,” Mustafa said, without saying why Wong’s name was on the list. “The immigration official carried out the process of denying the entry of a foreign citizen to this country following the standard operating procedures that have been set.”
Wong helped lead demonstrations that blocked key Hong Kong business districts for more than two months last autumn to protest China’s proposal to vet candidates for the city’s first leadership election. The Occupy Central movement, which ended in December, represented the biggest challenge to China’s rule since the British returned control of the former colony in 1997.
Malaysia has blocked foreign politicians from entering its borders before. In February 2013, Australian lawmaker Nick Xenophon was expelled from Malaysia where he had planned to meet local politicians including then-opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim before Malaysia’s general election that year.
Airport Checkpoint
Wong announced the immigration dispute on Facebook Tuesday afternoon after he was prevented from passing through an airport checkpoint in the northwestern state of Penang. Wong returned to Hong Kong and canceled plans to participate in a local forum where he was expected to speak about the China’s Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989.
“The Malaysian government says I threaten its national security,” Wong wrote in a separate post on Twitter. With reference to demonstrations in Hong Kong and Beijing, he said: “I don’t understand how the Umbrella Movement and Tiananmen Square demonstrations have anything to do with Malaysia’s political situation.”
Khalid, Malaysia’s inspector general of police, told Agence France-Presse that authorities were concerned Wong’s speech would harm national security and that allowing someone with a history of making what he called anti-Chinese remarks could damage ties with the government in Beijing. The police chief didn’t immediately respond to a text message seeking comment.
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:


Milan Station shares stumble in Hong Kong market, but Zijin Mining jumps | South China Morning Post
MARKETS
Milan Station shares stumble in Hong Kong market, but Zijin Mining jumps
PUBLISHED : Wednesday, 27 May, 2015, 1:40pm
UPDATED : Wednesday, 27 May, 2015, 2:00pm
Benjamin Robertson
The copper mine of Zijin Mining, whose shares jumped in Hong Kong on Wednesday after reports it was raising capital to fund purchase of mining assets. Photo: AFP
Second hand accessories retailer Milan Station posted the biggest fall in percentage terms in Hong Kong’s equity market on Wednesday after news that the firm’s controlling shareholder dumped 16.61 per cent of issued shares to undisclosed third parties.
Milan Station shares fell 17.7 per cent to HK$1.86 per share on Wednesday morning. The stock has risen 190.63 per cent year to date and hit a high of HK$2.6 a share on May 21.
On the other hand, Zijin Mining jumped 15.72 per cent to HK$3.46 a share on news the firm was raising up to 10 billion yuan in new capital to help purchase US$ 710m worth of overseas mining assets.
Zijin had the second highest turnover among Wednesday’s gainers.
On Tuesday, Zijin Mining Group said it will buy US$710 million worth of gold and copper mining assets from two Canadian companies in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Papua New Guinea with funds raised through a private placement in the Shanghai stock market.
Zijin told the Shanghai and Hong Kong stock exchanges it would buy a 49.5 per cent stake in the Kamoa copper project in the Democratic Republic of Congo from Ivanhoe Mines for US$412 million. 
Another metal related firm, China Silver Group, leapt 11.3 per cent to HK$ 5.91 a share after the company raised net proceeds of HK$ 76.3 million from a group of investors including Chinese state-owned insurers PICC Group and China Export and Import Insurance. The firm’s share price went up fivefold in the past year.
Market reaction to capital raising announcements has reversed, said Ivan Lee, equity analyst at Tung Shing Securities. Normally stocks fall when companies raise new capital because it dilutes shares.
“Investors now think the share price is performing well and the company will make more acquisitions,” he said.
 
Among the blue chips, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing slid 1.03 per cent to HK$ 306.2, reversing some of Tuesday’s surge that pushed the stock to a record close.
 
Send to a friend
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here .
Article to be sent:
To: *
From: *
SCMP.com SCMP Tablet Edition SCMP Mobile Edition 10-year news archive

