Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Don't Miss Out —
Follow us on:
Malaysia barred a student leader of pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong from entry because his name was on a watch list, the nation’s immigration chief said.
Joshua Wong -- co-founder of the student activist group Scholarism -- was among people barred from entering Malaysia, Immigration Director-General Mustafa Ibrahim said in a statement Tuesday. The country’s police chief, Abu Bakar Khalid, additionally told Agence France-Presse that Malaysia was concerned Wong’s plan to speak about civil rights in China could jeopardize ties with the country.
“The official on duty found that Wong has been listed among people who are barred from entering this country,” Mustafa said, without saying why Wong’s name was on the list. “The immigration official carried out the process of denying the entry of a foreign citizen to this country following the standard operating procedures that have been set.”
Wong helped lead demonstrations that blocked key Hong Kong business districts for more than two months last autumn to protest China’s proposal to vet candidates for the city’s first leadership election. The Occupy Central movement, which ended in December, represented the biggest challenge to China’s rule since the British returned control of the former colony in 1997.
Malaysia has blocked foreign politicians from entering its borders before. In February 2013, Australian lawmaker Nick Xenophon was expelled from Malaysia where he had planned to meet local politicians including then-opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim before Malaysia’s general election that year.
Airport Checkpoint
Wong announced the immigration dispute on Facebook Tuesday afternoon after he was prevented from passing through an airport checkpoint in the northwestern state of Penang. Wong returned to Hong Kong and canceled plans to participate in a local forum where he was expected to speak about the China’s Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989.
“The Malaysian government says I threaten its national security,” Wong wrote in a separate post on Twitter. With reference to demonstrations in Hong Kong and Beijing, he said: “I don’t understand how the Umbrella Movement and Tiananmen Square demonstrations have anything to do with Malaysia’s political situation.”
Khalid, Malaysia’s inspector general of police, told Agence France-Presse that authorities were concerned Wong’s speech would harm national security and that allowing someone with a history of making what he called anti-Chinese remarks could damage ties with the government in Beijing. The police chief didn’t immediately respond to a text message seeking comment.
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:


 2015-05-27 10:37
PUTRAJAYA, May 26 (Bernama) -- Hong Kong student activist, Joshua Wong Chi Fung who was prevented from entering Malaysia upon arrival at the Penang International Airport today, is on the list of individuals banned from entering this country.
Immigration director-general, Datuk Mustafa Ibrahim said Wong who was on Dragon Air flight KA633 from Hong Kong, had arrived at the airport at 11.50am but was put on a flight back to Hong Kong at 12.50pm.
"An Immigration officer handled the foreigner's entry rejection process based on the stipulated standard operating procedure.
"According to the international procedure, individuals whose entry into a country has been rejected, should be sent back to the airport from which he had departed to enter that country, and not to any other destination.
"He (Wong) was sent back to Hong Kong via flight KA634 at 12.50pm today," Mustafa said in a statement.
The 18-year-old student activist was scheduled to attend a forum titled, "The Uprising of Youth and New Social Activism in Singapore and Hong Kong," at Auditorium A in Komtar, Penang, tonight.
He was also scheduled to attend more forums in Ipoh, Johor Bahru and Kuala Lumpur.
 

