Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Chronic wasting found in wild deer, Michigan confirms
If more deer become infected, it could have far-reaching financial and social implications
Post to Facebook
Chronic wasting found in wild deer, Michigan confirms If more deer become infected, it could have far-reaching financial and social implications Check out this story on Freep.com: http://on.freep.com/1HJzClU
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Chronic wasting found in wild deer, Michigan confirms
Lydia Lohrer, Special to the Free Press 8:03 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
If more deer become infected, it could have far-reaching financial and social implications
Buy Photo
(Photo: Eric Sharp, DFP)Buy Photo
CONNECT 1 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
The state of Michigan managed to avoid the scourge of chronic wasting disease (CWD) that has plagued deer and elk in 23 other states – until now.
Today, the Michigan departments of Natural Resources (DNR) and Agriculture and Rural Development (MDARD) confirmed a free-ranging deer in Meridian Township of Ingham County has tested positive for CWD.
If more deer turn out to be infected, it could have far-reaching financial and social implications. The disease is caused by prions, similar to Bovine Spongiform Encephalitis (mad cow disease), but it affects white-tailed deer, mule deer, elk and moose.
Chronic wasting disease hasn't appeared in Michigan since an infected white-tailed deer was detected in 2008 at a breeding farm in Kent County. This is the first time it has been found in Michigan's free-ranging deer population.
A sick animal was observed last month wandering around a Haslett residence and showing signs of illness, according to Michigan's DNR in a press release . The homeowner reported it and the deer was collected by a DNR wildlife biologist and delivered for initial testing to the DNR Wildlife Disease Laboratory at the Michigan State University Diagnostic Center for Population and Animal Health in Lansing.
The positive samples were then sent to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's National Veterinary Services Laboratory in Ames, Iowa, for final confirmation.
"To date, there is no evidence that chronic wasting disease presents any risk to non-cervids, including humans, either through contact with an infected animal or from handling contaminated venison," the Michigan DNR said in the release. "However, as a precaution, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and the World Health Organization recommend that infected animals not be consumed as food by either humans or domestic animals."
DNR director Keith Creagh said in the release: "The good news is that we are armed with a thoughtfully crafted response plan. We are using every available resource, to determine the extent of this disease, respond appropriately to limit further transmission, and ultimately eradicate the disease in Michigan if possible."
Officials said the state has tested about 34,000 wild deer since 1998 and found no evidence of the disease. About 21,000 samples from privately owned deer populations have been tested for the disease and all were negative in the state except for the western Michigan case.
Unlimited antlerless deer hunting licenses will be available this fall in a core CWD Area consisting of Alaiedon, Delhi, Lansing, Meridian, Wheatfield and Williamstown townships in Ingham County; Bath and DeWitt townships in Clinton County; and Woodhull Township in Shiawassee County.
Mandatory checking of deer will be required in this area during hunting seasons and restrictions of carcasses and parts of deer taken in the area will apply. A feeding and baiting ban is in immediate effect.
The DNR asks help from the public and hunters in reporting deer that are unusually thin or demonstrating unusual behavior such as a lack of fear of humans.
To report road-kills found in the Core CWD Area call the Wildlife Disease Hotline at 517-614-9602 during office hours. Leave a voicemail with location information.
The Associated Press contributed.
TOP VIDEOS


Michigan confirms 1st case of chronic wasting in wild deer
By JEFF KAROUB Associated Press
Wildlife officials on Tuesday confirmed Michigan's first case of chronic wasting disease in a wild deer.
The Michigan Department of Natural Resources announced a white-tailed female deer in Ingham County's Meridian Township tested positive for the contagious and fatal disease that attacks the brains of infected deer and elk.
Officials say they will require mandatory testing of deer killed in the surrounding area during hunting season and implement a deer and elk feeding and baiting ban in Ingham, Shiawassee and Clinton counties. Unlimited antlerless deer hunting licenses also will be available in the surrounding area, and officials say they will work with trained professionals before hunting season to kill deer and take samples for testing.
Chronic wasting disease hasn't appeared in Michigan since an infected white-tailed deer was detected in 2008 at a breeding farm in Kent County.
The head of the state's leading hunting and outdoor recreation group expressed disappointment and concern.
Michigan United Conservation Clubs executive director Dan Eichinger called the news "nothing short of tragic, saying it was "a day many of us hoped would never come, though it is not wholly unexpected."
The disease is caused by the transmission of infectious proteins known as "prions" in saliva and other bodily fluids of infected animals, but authorities say it's not known how the ill deer — which was found last month wandering around a residential neighborhood — had contracted it.
The DNR said the disease has been detected in deer, elk or moose in 23 states, some cases going back decades.
Wildlife officials stressed there is neither a food safety nor a public health issue and lack evidence of transmission to humans, but global health experts generally recommend that infected animals not be eaten by humans or domestic animals.
Officials said the state has tested about 34,000 wild deer since 1998 and found no evidence of the disease. About 21,000 samples from privately owned deer populations have been tested for the disease and all were negative in the state except for the western Michigan case.
Wildlife officers noted that it's likely the infected deer lived its entire life in Ingham County, since does in suburban areas tend to have a limited home range. Still, they can't be sure this is the only case.
---

