Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Chronic wasting found in wild deer, Michigan confirms
If more deer become infected, it could have far-reaching financial and social implications
Post to Facebook
Chronic wasting found in wild deer, Michigan confirms If more deer become infected, it could have far-reaching financial and social implications Check out this story on Freep.com: http://on.freep.com/1HJzClU
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Chronic wasting found in wild deer, Michigan confirms
Lydia Lohrer, Special to the Free Press 8:03 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
If more deer become infected, it could have far-reaching financial and social implications
Buy Photo
(Photo: Eric Sharp, DFP)Buy Photo
CONNECT 1 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
The state of Michigan managed to avoid the scourge of chronic wasting disease (CWD) that has plagued deer and elk in 23 other states – until now.
Today, the Michigan departments of Natural Resources (DNR) and Agriculture and Rural Development (MDARD) confirmed a free-ranging deer in Meridian Township of Ingham County has tested positive for CWD.
If more deer turn out to be infected, it could have far-reaching financial and social implications. The disease is caused by prions, similar to Bovine Spongiform Encephalitis (mad cow disease), but it affects white-tailed deer, mule deer, elk and moose.
Chronic wasting disease hasn't appeared in Michigan since an infected white-tailed deer was detected in 2008 at a breeding farm in Kent County. This is the first time it has been found in Michigan's free-ranging deer population.
A sick animal was observed last month wandering around a Haslett residence and showing signs of illness, according to Michigan's DNR in a press release . The homeowner reported it and the deer was collected by a DNR wildlife biologist and delivered for initial testing to the DNR Wildlife Disease Laboratory at the Michigan State University Diagnostic Center for Population and Animal Health in Lansing.
The positive samples were then sent to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's National Veterinary Services Laboratory in Ames, Iowa, for final confirmation.
"To date, there is no evidence that chronic wasting disease presents any risk to non-cervids, including humans, either through contact with an infected animal or from handling contaminated venison," the Michigan DNR said in the release. "However, as a precaution, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and the World Health Organization recommend that infected animals not be consumed as food by either humans or domestic animals."
DNR director Keith Creagh said in the release: "The good news is that we are armed with a thoughtfully crafted response plan. We are using every available resource, to determine the extent of this disease, respond appropriately to limit further transmission, and ultimately eradicate the disease in Michigan if possible."
Officials said the state has tested about 34,000 wild deer since 1998 and found no evidence of the disease. About 21,000 samples from privately owned deer populations have been tested for the disease and all were negative in the state except for the western Michigan case.
Unlimited antlerless deer hunting licenses will be available this fall in a core CWD Area consisting of Alaiedon, Delhi, Lansing, Meridian, Wheatfield and Williamstown townships in Ingham County; Bath and DeWitt townships in Clinton County; and Woodhull Township in Shiawassee County.
Mandatory checking of deer will be required in this area during hunting seasons and restrictions of carcasses and parts of deer taken in the area will apply. A feeding and baiting ban is in immediate effect.
The DNR asks help from the public and hunters in reporting deer that are unusually thin or demonstrating unusual behavior such as a lack of fear of humans.
To report road-kills found in the Core CWD Area call the Wildlife Disease Hotline at 517-614-9602 during office hours. Leave a voicemail with location information.
The Associated Press contributed.
TOP VIDEOS


Fatal deer disease hits Michigan
Deer hunters and wildlife enthusiasts should pay close attention to deer in Ionia County after a Ingham County white-tailed deer tested positive for chronic wasting disease last week.
Comment
By Nicholas Grenke
INGHAM COUNTY, Mich.
Deer hunters and wildlife enthusiasts should pay close attention to deer in Ionia County after a Ingham County white-tailed deer tested positive for chronic wasting disease last week.
The deer was found in Meridian Township with the fatal neurological disease that affects white-tailed deer. The disease had not been found to be dangerous to humans through contact or by handling contaminated venison.
However, as a precaution, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and the World Health Organization recommend that infected animals not be consumed as food, according to a press release issued Tuesday by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources.
This is the first case of a free-ranging deer testing positive for the disease in Michigan, but in 2008 a deer from a privately owned facility in Kent County tested positive for CWD. In October 2014, a deer in Ohio tested positive for the disease for the first time.
“This is the first case of chronic wasting disease to be confirmed in a free-ranging Michigan white-tailed deer,” Michigan Department of Natural Resource Director Keith Creagh in a press release.
The Michigan DNR developed a plan to contain the disease in 2002 and the plan was updated in 2012.
The DNR has created a CWD Management Zone, which will include Clinton, Ingham and Shiawassee counties to try to stop the spread of the disease.
Stoney Creek Outdoor Properties, LLC owner, Chad Thelen said he thinks the DNR may create restrictions to Ionia County to stop the spread of the disease because of the two county's close distance.
“You will probably see restrictions on baiting does,” Thelen said. “They'll have a plan in place and we'll learn more as it gets closer to hunting season.”
In increased monitoring, part of the plan includes prohibiting road kill deers to be salvaged in Clinton, Ingham and Shiawassee counties.
The disease can take its toll on a deer population over time. According to the Michigan DNR CWD Contingency Plan, since the disease was first discovered near Boulder, Colorado, in the late 1980s, the local deer population has declined 45 percent.
However, when the disease was discovered in New York in 2005, the disease was contained, according to the Michigan DNR CWD Contingency Plan.
“I'm concerned, but there's not a whole lot you can do about it other than follow the DNR guidelines,” Thelen said. “I don't think the sky is falling.”
The DNR press release recommends that if anyone notices a deer looking sickly thin or behaving strangely to call the DNR Wildlife Disease Lab at 517-336-5030 or fill out and submit the online observation report at www.michigan.gov/dnr. To report road-kills found in the Core CWD Area, call the Wildlife Disease Hotline at 517-614-9602 during office hours.
By Nicholas Grenke
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.

