Indiana, Arkansas pass revised religious objection proposals
Indiana Senate President Pro Tem David Long announces changes to the state's new religious objections law during a press conference in the House chamber at the Statehouse in Indianapolis, Thursday, April 2, 2015. The measure has faced criticism it could allow discrimination against lesbians and gays. (AP Photo/Michael Conroy)
Posted: Thursday, April 2, 2015 5:29 pm | Updated: 8:00 pm, Thu Apr 2, 2015.
NEW YORK (AP) — Indiana's religious objections law angered many on Broadway, and some were calling on union members to avoid working in that state before the law was revised Thursday.
A Care2 petition started by playwright and actor Eric Ulloa urged the Actors' Equity Association — the labor union that represents more than 50,000 actors and stage managers — to avoid performances or work in Indiana following passage of the state's Religious Freedom Restoration Act.
It had over 1,100 signatures by 6 p.m. Eastern time. Late Thursday, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence approved changes to the law so that it now prohibits providers from using the law as a legal defense for refusing to provide services, goods, facilities or accommodations.
Ulloa in an interview earlier Thursday said he was sparked into action because the law might make it possible for touring actors to be thrown out of Indiana restaurants and hotels simply because the owners object to their conversations or they're sleeping with members of the same sex.
"We are being placed as actors in a very dangerous predicament," he said. "Why are we not protecting our own from having to be in a hotel where the Christian owner can say, 'I'm sorry, you and your boyfriend can't lie in the same bed because the Bible tells me that's wrong.'"
The original Indiana law, which takes effect July 1, did not specifically mention gays, but opponents say it is designed to protect businesses and individuals who do not want to serve gays, such as florists or caterers who might be hired for a same-sex wedding.
In a statement, Actors' Equity Association said the group "firmly opposes any legislation that discriminates against people based on sexual orientation" and that all "who live or work in Indiana should not be victims of legally-sanctioned discrimination."
Several Broadway stars, including Audra McDonald and Harvey Fierstein, have attacked the law. Touring versions of Broadway shows are very lucrative and generate tax revenue for the hosting city and state.
___
Mark Kennedy is at http://twitter.com/KennedyTwits
Posted in Other , Entertainment on Thursday, April 2, 2015 5:29 pm. Updated: 8:00 pm.
Custom Search
Having a pet is a lot of responsibility, and we’ll help by giving you lots of tips and tricks! More >>
Copyright © 2015
The contents of this website may not be reproduced without written permission from The Brownsville Herald. All rights reserved. 1135 E. Van Buren St, Brownsville, TX 78520 | (956) 542-4301

