Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I’ve worked as a journalist in new media, print, television news and documentary film, and have written and reported extensively about travel and road safety, as well as job trends, small business, personal spending, education, human interest topics, environmental and social issues, and the arts. I’ve contributed to many publications and news organizations, including The New York Times, the International Herald Tribune, NBCNews.com, BBC.com, AOL, ABC News, PBS, HBO and CNBC. For Forbes.com I write about transportation and consumer travel issues. I live in the Metro New York area. Join me on Twitter @tanya_mohn.
Remembering Lincoln: Special Events Mark the 150th Anniversary of Assassination
On April 14, it will be 150 years since President Abraham Lincoln was shot, and a number of special events and activities are planned to commemorate the 16th president, from a museum display featuring the handwritten autopsy notes to walking tours to the National Park Service’s funeral train programs in fourteen cities that held services for Lincoln in 1865 on its route from Washington , D.C. to Springfield, Illinois. Here is a round-up of a few:
NYC Discovery Walking Tours is sponsoring “Abraham Lincoln and Civil War New York” to mark the 150th anniversary of the assassination and the End of the War. The walking tour will explore sites connected to Lincoln and Civil War in New York. Stops include the location where Walt Whitman saw Lincoln for the first time, where Lincoln stayed and where his body lay in state following his assassination; the site of his 1861 speech as President-elect; the site of the attempted burning of New York in 1864; the bloody Draft Riots of 1863; a stop on the Underground Railroad; and a Confederate prison camp. Tours cost $22 per person and will take place Saturday April 11 and Sunday, April 12 at 2:30 pm, on subsequent Saturdays and Sundays at 9 am, and by private arrangement. Call 212-465-3331 for reservations and the meeting place.
Portrait of Abraham Lincoln (1809-1865) by the photographer Alexander Gardner, 1865, United States, Washington. Library of Congress, . (Photo by: Photo12/UIG via Getty Images)
The Fenimore Art Museum in Cooperstown, New York is hosting “Autopsy for a Nation: The Death of Abraham Lincoln,” a new exhibition on display through December 31, 2015. The installation includes handwritten notes by Dr. Joseph Janvier Woodward Woodward and Dr. Robert King Stone, two Army surgeons who performed Lincoln’s autopsy after the 16th president was shot in the head by John Wilkes Booth at Ford’s Theater in Washington.
( Notes taken at Lincoln’s autopsy by Dr. J. J. Woodward, April 15, 1865. Courtesy of  New York State Historical Association / Fenimore Art Museum)
Additional Lincoln-related items from the period from the museum’s collection are also on view. On Tuesday, April 14 at 6:30 pm, the museum will host a reading of “Our American Cousin,” the play Lincoln was watching the night he was assassinated. Act II will follow the actual events that occurred immediately after the assassination. Admission is free. Click here for more information.
The Crime Museum in Washington, D.C is offering a new 90 minute, two-mile walking tour. “It seems appropriate to launch “Assassinations in the Capital” during anniversary of Lincoln’s death and guests will experience not only Lincoln’s story, but other presidential assassinations in a unique Crime Museum fashion,” Janine Vaccarello, chief operating officer of the Crime Museum, said in a statement. Locations on the tour include the site of President Garfield’s assassination, sites related to the conspiracy to kill President Lincoln, the site of an attempt on the life of President Truman, the Navy Memorial, FBI Headquarters, the White House, and Lafayette Square. For more information, click here .
New York will host numerous events that highlight Lincoln’s ties to the state, including a special exhibit that features funeral-related artifacts on view through the summer at the State Capitol. A free day of activities, tours, re-enactments and period music will be hosted at the Capitol on Saturday, April 25, the date the funeral train arrived in Albany in 1865 carrying the slain President’s body. The funeral train stopped in three cities in New York along the route from Washington, D.C. to Lincoln’s home state of Illinois. All events are free and open to the public, but due to limited seating, reservations are required for the presentation by Lincoln impersonator Fritz Klein.
“President Lincoln guided our nation through one of its darkest times, and his commitment to unity and equality continues to inspire,” Governor Andrew M. Cuomo said in a statement. “As we recognize the 150th anniversary of his death, I encourage all New Yorkers to learn more about his life, his enduring legacy and his profound impact on our nation.” Click here for reservations for events taking place on April 25, here for information about activities statewide, and here for information on “Abraham Lincoln’s Journey Home,” the National Park Service’s funeral train programs from April 18 to May 3, 2015 in fourteen cities that held memorial services for Lincoln in 1865.
Enter Your Comment
Share

