Android M, new update policy, new Nexus devices, more
Google I/O kicks off tomorrow and Android fans are probably thrilled about the new announcements the search giant is expected to make during the conference.
Most of you probably know by now that Google is launching a new version of Android each year and 2015 is no exception.
Android M and developer preview
We expect Google to announce Android M tomorrow, though we're not sure if the company will also unveil its marketing name because it surely won't be “Android M.”
Along with Android M, Google is expected to discuss all the new features and improvements that the OS will include. We also expect the search giant to inform developers when they will be able to download the Android M Developers Preview.
Just like last year, Google is likely to launch its new version of Android as developer preview, so that it can be tested and improved until it gets released.
Only some Nexus devices will be compatible with Android M developer preview, but we will certainly learn more about that tomorrow.
Two Nexus smartphones coming this year
If you've been anxious to purchase another Nexus smartphone because your current one doesn't satisfy you anymore, then you will be pleased to know that Google might unveil not one, but two new Nexus handsets.
They won't be available for purchase until fall, but we already know they are codenamed LG Bullhead and Huawei Angler. The former will pack a 5.2-inch display, whereas the latter will boast a much larger 5.7-inch display.
Rumor has it that the LG smartphone will be equipped with hexa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 808 processor, while the Huawei phablet should pack a more powerful octa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 CPU.
There's a chance that these devices might be unveiled after Google I/O, but they will surely be available this fall, not earlier.
New Android update policy
Google is also expected to announce a new Android update policy. The new guideline will apply only to Nexus devices, so other brands are still in the wild.
According to this new policy, all Nexus devices are guaranteed to receive OS updates for two years and security patches for three years. After that Google won't guarantee that you will receive any more updates on your Nexus device.
As mentioned earlier, this doesn't apply to other brands, but if Google can enforce other OEMs to follow the same guidelines. We'll see what happens in the future.
Google I/O 2015
Photo app, voice access service, native fingerprint authentication
Next in line, there are a couple of services and apps that Google plans to make official during I/O, such as a new photo app for Android and a voice access service .
Both have been rumored in the last couple of weeks, so there's a high chance that we will see them being presented at Google I/O.
We've also reported about a week ago about a new feature that might be implemented in Android M, which is called native fingerprint authentication.
This new functionality will allow Android users to log in to supported applications and services through fingerprint authentication, thus without having to fill in their passwords. More on that will probably be revealed at Google I/O.
Android M highlights and release date
The main Android M highlights will probably be demoed and explained during special keynotes. One of the things that Google will probably want to talk about is how they will be able to improve battery life and trim down RAM usage in Android.
Word is that Google has a dedicated team that is working to optimize Android and Google Play Services for low battery consumption. I'm sure many of you heard that before, but let's hope this time it's for real.
One last piece of information that has been confirmed by the “rumor mill” is that the final version of Android M will be released in August. We'll be reporting about everything Google brings to I/O, so stay tuned for more on the subject.
  CHECK OUT THE GALLERY  (2 Images)
submit
2 photos
new android apps
Follow
13K
© 2001-2015 Softpedia. All rights reserved. Softpedia® and the Softpedia® logo are registered trademarks of SoftNews NET SRL.      We use cookies to offer you a complete experience. Learn more: Privacy policy .
news tip

