Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Gay marriage opponents push deadline for court filings
Friday is last day for those looking to have state ban upheld to file their arguments
Post to Facebook
Gay marriage opponents push deadline for court filings Friday is last day for those looking to have state ban upheld to file their arguments Check out this story on detroitnews.com: http://detne.ws/1D15kYf
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Gay marriage opponents push deadline for court filings
Oralandar Brand-Williams, The Detroit News 2:30 p.m. EDT April 3, 2015
Detroit — A coalition of African-American pastors representing churches across the country says in its legal briefs filed with the U.S. Supreme Court  that comparing the fight to legalize gay marriage to the modern civil rights movement is wrong.
The brief was one of a number filed  as the deadline for friend of the court briefs looms Friday. The Thomas More Law Center in Ann Arbor filed the brief on behalf of the National Coalition of Black Pastors and Christian Leaders who support a November ruling by the U.S. 6th Circuit Court of Appeals that  upheld gay marriage bans in Michigan, Ohio, Tennessee, and Kentucky.
The Michigan case is based on a federal lawsuit filed by two Hazel Park nurses, April DeBoer and Jayne Rowse, who filed a lawsuit in 2012 challenging Michigan’s ban on gay adoption because they could not adopt each other’s children because they are a lesbian couple. The two women later amended their lawsuit seeking to overturn the state’s ban on gay marriage. The ban was approved by voters in 2004.
One of the purposes of the pastor’s brief “is to negate the homosexual community’s fallacious argument that discrimination because of one’s sexual preference is the same as racial discrimination,” according to a press release from the Thomas More Law Center. The center has filed six other amicus briefs backing the same-sex marriage ban in Michigan and the other three Midwest states that will be part of oral arguments April 28 before the nation’s high court.
“Comparing the dilemmas of same-sex couples to the centuries of discrimination faced by black Americans is a deceptive distortion of our country’s culture and history,” reads the brief on behalf of the 100 African-American pastors and their 1 million members across the country. “The disgraces in our nation’s history pertaining to the civil rights of black Americans are unmatched. No other class of individuals, including individuals who are same-sex attracted, have ever been enslaved, or lawfully viewed not as human, but as property.”
In their briefs the pastors added “we protest petitioners’ attempt to equate this case to Loving (the landmark case legalizing interracial marriage) under the banner of ‘marriage equality.’ Petitioners essentially claim that their proposed redefinition improves marriage by adding a necessary element of ‘equality’ to it. This is certainly a clever ploy, for who can oppose equality? But that is all that it is, a ploy. It is not a valid point.”
The national group Parents and Friends of Ex-Gays & Gays said in its lengthy filing that “sexual orientation is not an immutable characteristic “determined solely by the accident of birth and, thus, cannot be a suspect class.”
The group added, “The issue is important because a finding that sexual orientation is immutable could lead this court to declare it a new ‘suspect class’ for purposes of the Equal Protection Clause, which is unwarranted.”
In its brief the group identified several high profile Americans as being “ex-gay” and “no longer (identifying) as being homosexual, such as the wife of New York City’s mayor.
“Chirlane McCray no longer identifies as a lesbian after marrying and having family with New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio,” the brief read. The legal filing also read “Ex-gays are reviled, ridiculed and marginalized.”
The nation’s high court has seen a huge number of filings of amicus briefs on both sides of the issue.
Gay marriage is legal in 37 states.
bwilliams@detroitnews.com

