Baton Rouge
Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
New Orleans welcomes Uber, Lyft, ride-sharing services as deal struck
uber rally.jpg
Supporters of the ride-sharing app Uber begin to gather outside City Hall Wednesday (April 1) as the City Council enters final discussions with 'transportation network companies' over new regulations. (Richard Rainey, NOLA.com | The Times-Picayune)
New Orleans has opened its doors to lower-cost ride-sharing companies , including Uber and Lyft.
The City Council voted 4-2 -- Councilwoman Stacy Head was absent -- Thursday (April 9) to give the green light to online companies to begin picking up fares.
The vote culminates months of backroom negotiations between Mayor Mitch Landrieu's administration, the council and the ride-sharing companies, also known as transportation network companies after a higher end service, Uber Black, began operating in the city since September .
"I believe it's time to bring ride-sharing services to New Orleans," Councilman Jared Brossett said. "We should not always be the last to come forward and lead."
Supporters of the service praised the council and said the vote couldn't come soon enough.
But suffice to say, taxi drivers were not happy. Several railed against the regulations during the public comment period before the vote. The gist of most opinions was that regulations on taxis are far more stringent than those proposed for ride-sharing services.
"It's unequal, it's unfair and we will see you in court!" shouted Jason Coleman of Coleman Cab Co.
Ride-sharing companies weren't satisfied, either.
Mike Masserman, an executive director with Lyft, indicated that his company's future in New Orleans remains murky despite bargaining with city officials. He said, among other things, that the new insurance requirements could prevent it from competing in the market.
"What I can tell you today is that I'm not sure whether we'll be able to operate in the market, but we will continue to work with you," he said.
Trevor Theunissen, a public policy manager with Uber, thanked the council for its efforts, but added that a new amendment that renders moot any clause in a company contract with a driver or customer that requires arbitration before going to court would kill Uber's ability to operate in New Orleans.
"The ride-sharing industry should not be singled out from the vast majority of U.S. industries that use these terms," he said.
Council members Nadine Ramsey and James Gray, who voted against the legislation, expressed strong reservations. Gray asked that his colleagues wait on a vote until more questions could be answered. Specifically, he wasn't sure ride-sharing drivers could operate on state roads without a chauffeur's license.
He was also concerned that the drug-testing requirements for ride-sharing drivers would be different than those for taxi drivers. Taxi drivers presently must be pre-screened before operating.
The Landrieu administration has indicated that it would revisit the drug-testing rules for taxis down the road.
"I don't trust that we're going to come back and get it right later," Gray said.
Ramsey said she thought there weren't enough safety measures in place for passengers and equity for the taxi cab industry.
"What's new has to be looked at very closely," she said. "We have to be concerned about the safety of our citizens."
"This ordinance will not be 100 percent of what either side prefers," Brossett said. "And perhaps that is a sign that we have struck the right balance."
"We do not have a crystal ball, and we cannot say what is perfect in terms of legislation nor can we wait for perfect," Susan Guidry said. "We have to act.
"This is an evolving industry. It will continue to evolve."
Here are some of the highlights to come from the regulations and amendments Thursday:
Drug testing - The Department of Safety & Permits can send each ride-sharing company a list of 25 drivers every three months that must submit to drug testing. The company then has five days to notify each driver and each driver has 10 days to take the test. After an accident, however, a driver must submit to a drug test within 24 hours.
There are exceptions for drivers who test positive if they can show they have a prescription dated prior to the test and a certified note from a physician saying so.
Insurance - The company or the driver must have primary liability insurance up to $25,000 for property damage, $50,000 for death or personal injury for one person and $100,000 for death or personal injury to more than one person while a driver is waiting for a fare. That policy jumps to $1 million and also must provide $1 million in uninsured and under-insured motorist coverage while a passenger is in the vehicle.
Either the driver or the company can hold these policies, but it is the company's responsibility to make sure that the policies are up to snuff.
Surge pricing - The company has to let passengers know what they're estimated charges are if there is an increase before the passenger accepts the fare.
Receipts - Ride-sharing companies have to keep records of all receipts up to two years. There can be no surge pricing or gouging during emergencies.
City Limits - Ride-sharing companies can't refuse to take anyone anywhere within 10 miles outside the city limits. 
Pickups - ride-sharing drivers can't pick up street hails.
Complaints - The companies have to tell the Department of Safety & Permits within 24 hours of any credible passenger complaints that accuse the driver of violating the companies conduct policy. Such a complaint can lead to a one-year ban for that driver.
Lawsuits - Any clauses in a contract that limits a driver or a passenger from suing a ride-sharing company cannot be enforced in New Orleans.
Fees - The fees for each vehicle stay the same: $15,000 per year and 50-cents per trip.
Drivers Registry - phone numbers and addresses will be eliminated from the drivers registry that will be kept with the city.
Breaking News/Live events
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for signing up!
Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you dont' see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Video          of the Day
© 2015 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

