Hooper: Corcoran's 'war' attitude on health care debate is misguided
Someone requirements to tell the state Home Appropriations chairman his name is Richard Corcoran, not Rick Flair.A lot more than a Year ago9 Months Agofour Weeks AgoCorcoran, R-Land O'Lakes, spouted off like a WWE wrestler about the $four billion budget...
A lot more than a Year ago
9 Months Ago
four Weeks Ago
Corcoran, R-Land O'Lakes, spouted off like a WWE wrestler about the $four billion budget divide between the state Home and Senate final week by inviting fellow House members to, &quotCome to war with overall health care on us."
War? Ask a veteran if haggling more than the state price range in air-conditioned chambers is war.
We have 800,000 Floridians without overall health insurance and a possible loss of $2.2 billion in federal funds for low-earnings sufferers. We don't require overzealous appeals to a constituency that believes anger and vitriol are the only tools of diplomacy.
We require Corcoran to negotiate with a mission-driven mindset to come up with a answer. We will need a statesman. . . .
Observed on a bumper sticker: Life Is A Dance If You Take The Actions. . . .
Particular St. Petersburg City Council members say they do not want the Rays to leave devoid of fair compensation, but why not seize the moment and quell the team's desire to appear elsewhere with a viable plan to remain in Pinellas? Give the Rays a vision they can believe in, mainly because Tampa's wish to bring the team across the bay might be waning. . . .
WEDU will screen Homestretch, a film about homeless teens, at six:30 p.m. Thursday at its Berkman Family members Broadcast Center, 1300 N Boulevard. A panel discussion on this pressing challenge will follow, but seating is limited. Learn much more and reserve at wedu.org/cinema. . . .
I keep seeing Oberto Beef Jerky advertisements through the NCAA Tournament that say, &quotYou get out what you place in." I maintain pondering that applies to life, as well.
That is all I am saying.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
05 April 2015 Sunday 20:34
8 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.
Breaking News in this Category

