Top Stories in Local
Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
Top Stories in Lifestyle
Jobs
Lone Star College can put you on fast track to new career
Top Stories in Jobs
New Camry XSE aimed at drivers seeking sporty flair, luxury
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
'Lincoln never dies' - finding his resonance 150 years later
By ADAM GELLER, AP National Writer | April 11, 2015 | Updated: April 11, 2015 2:08pm
Page 1 of 1
Photo By Andrew Harnik/AP 
In this Tuesday, April 7, 2015 photo, Asal Amrieva of New York, N.Y., center, takes a photograph while visiting the Lincoln Memorial in Washington. A century and a half after Lincoln was killed, people continue to connect with him in almost personal terms, while searching anew for his relevance to the Republic he left behind.
Photo By Molly Riley/AP 
In this Monday, April 6, 2015 photo, Karen Needles holds up a photograph of President Abraham Lincoln at the National Archives in College Park, Md. Three blocks away, 150 years earlier, Lincoln was felled by an assassin's bullet.
Photo By Molly Riley/AP 
In this Monday, April 6, 2015 photo, Karen Needles looks through pardon case files from the Lincoln administration at the National Archives in College Park, Md. "They call me Lady Lincoln," chuckles the former middle school history teacher who digitally scans every original record she can from Lincoln's administration — from letters he signed to his final paycheck for $1,981.67 — posting them online for anyone to see without charge.
Photo By Molly Riley/AP 
In this Monday, April 6, 2015 photo, Karen Needles holds a letter signed by President Abraham Lincoln in the pardon case files from the Lincoln administration at the National Archives in College Park, Md.
Photo By Molly Riley/AP 
In this Monday, April 6, 2015 photo, Karen Needles works on a scan of a photograph of President Abraham Lincoln at the National Archives in College Park, Md. To Needles, raised in small town Kansas and first in her family to go to college, Lincoln has long been a role model.
Photo By Randy Squires/AP 
In this Wednesday, April 8, 2015 photo, Robert Davis, a Civil War re-enactor, poses for a portrait outside the tomb of Abraham Lincoln with a bust of Lincoln in the background in Springfield, Ill. As a boy in Detroit, he heard his elders talk of his great grandparents' life after slavery and the family's migration. In his spare time, he dons the Union uniform to join Civil War re-enactments, playing a runaway slave who joined the United States Colored Troops.
Photo By Randy Squires/AP 
In this Wednesday, April 8, 2015 photo, Robert Davis, right, talks to Rinodda Webb, 13, during a rehearsal for a youth drama about the Emancipation Proclamation which he is directing at the Union Baptist Church in Springfield, Ill. Davis, 72, retired to Springfield after a career in business, and became a student of Lincoln.
Photo By Randy Squires/AP 
In this Wednesday, April 8, 2015 photo, Robert Davis, center, gives suggestions to Amir Upshaw, 12, during a rehearsal for a youth drama about the Emancipation Proclamation he is directing at the Union Baptist Church, in Springfield, Ill. "I think Lincoln was one of those men who could see through the fog of time, the fog of history, and he had a vision of a road for this country," Davis says. "We're not there yet. Ferguson showed us that. We're not there yet, but we're still on that road."
Photo By Library of Congress/AP 
This image from half of a stereoscopic photo provided by The Library of Congress shows the crowd surrounding the funeral procession for President Abraham Lincoln in Philadelphia in April 1865.
Photo By Charles Rex Arbogast/AP 
In this Thursday, April 2, 2015 photo, Dave Kloke poses for a portrait next to gold leaf work on his exact replica of the train car that carried President Abraham Lincoln's coffin along the 1600-mile route from Washington, D.C. to Springfield, Ill., in Elgin, Ill. Kloke, owner of a home construction business, became an admirer of Lincoln 20 years ago after watching a documentary about his push to build the transcontinental railroad, even as the Civil War raged.
Photo By Charles Rex Arbogast/AP 
This Thursday, April 2, 2015 photo shows a lamp, believed to be one of two that were on the original train car that carried President Abraham Lincoln's coffin along the 1600-mile route from Washington, D.C. to Springfield, Ill., in Elgin, Ill. Dave Kloke is building a replica of the train car, from the truck assembly to the car itself.
Photo By Charles Rex Arbogast/AP 
This Thursday, April 2, 2015 photo shows the ornamentation on a replica of the train car that carried President Abraham Lincoln's coffin along the 1600-mile route from Washington, D.C. to Springfield, Ill., in Elgin, Ill. Over the past five years, Dave Kloke has built the copy of the car and had hoped to hook it to the locomotive and re-travel the funeral train's exact route, but couldn't find financial sponsors. In recent weeks, though, he and other volunteers have scrambled to finish painting and upholstering, to get the car to Springfield by early May, before going on tour.
Photo By Charles Rex Arbogast/AP 
This Thursday, April 2, 2015 photo shows a replica of the train car that carried President Abraham Lincoln's coffin along the 1600-mile route from Washington, D.C. to Springfield, Ill., in Elgin, Ill., built by Dave Kloke. The original car was destroyed in a 1911 fire.
Photo By Library of Congress/AP 
This April 19, 1865 photo made available by the Library of Congress shows a procession for President Abraham Lincoln's funeral on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington.
Photo By Jim Cole/AP 
In this Thursday, April 2, 2015 photo, students prepare to cut patterns to make a replica of the frock coat President Abraham Lincoln's eldest son wore during his father's funeral, at Fairgrounds Middle School in Nashua, N.H. When teacher Mary Coe Foran heard that Springfield, Ill. would re-enact Lincoln's funeral, she signed up along with her mother, father, brother and son — who will play the part of Lincoln's eldest son. And she recruited 10 Fairgrounds Middle School students, who started their own Lincoln Association, meeting after school to research the period so they could make an exact replica of the coat.
Photo By Jim Cole/AP 
In this Thursday, April 2, 2015 photo, Mary Coe Foran works with Ellie Kopicko and other students cutting patterns to make a replica of the frock coat President Abraham Lincoln's eldest son wore during his father's funeral, at Fairgrounds Middle School in Nashua, N.H. The coat is being prepared for a May 2015 reenactment of the funeral in Springfield, Ill. Foran's fascination with Lincoln dates to childhood, when her family treasured a swatch of cloth, stained with blood, reputedly cut from the dress of the actress who cradled the dying Lincoln's head. She recalls the many questions it prompted.
Photo By Jim Cole/AP 
In this Thursday, April 2, 2015 photo, students making a replica of the frock coat worn by Abraham Lincoln's son at his funeral pose for a photo at Fairgrounds Middle School in Nashua, N.H. From left are Kenny Liu; Corwin Stauff; Andrew Tall; Joanne Lee; Meghan Russell, wearing the close to finished mock version of a frock coat; Ellie Kopicko; Lia Whitesel; Tanisha Asarpota and Njeri Kiritu.
Photo By Randy Squires/AP 
In this Wednesday, April 8, 2015 photo, a group of students from Sheridan Elementary School in Bloomington, Ill., pose for a photo with a life-size figure of President Abraham Lincoln at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Museum in Springfield, Ill. April 14, 2015 marks the 150th anniversary of the Lincoln's assassination.
Photo By Randy Squires/AP 
 
WASHINGTON (AP) — In the reading room overlooking Pennsylvania Avenue, Karen Needles mostly works alone — but always in good company.
Five mornings a week, she arrives at the National Archives , often wearing an Abraham Lincoln T-shirt. Beside her laptop with its Lincoln mouse pad, she sometimes stations an Honest Abe bobblehead, seemingly nodding approval.
Here, three blocks from where, 150 years ago this week, Lincoln was killed, Needles works to bring him to life, scanning every original record she can from Lincoln's administration and posting them online.
To Needles, raised in small town Kansas and first in her family to go to college, Lincoln has long been a role model. But we could all use some Lincoln, the former history teacher says, relishing the notion of his statue at the Lincoln Memorial taking today's politicians over his knee.
"Lincoln never dies," she says.
Soon after John Wilkes Booth shot Lincoln on April 14, 1865, the country embarked on a 1,700-mile funeral from Washington to Springfield, Illinois. Day and night, crowds lined the rails in a cathartic outpouring that has never been rivaled.
__
When tourists queue in front of Ford's Theatre on a recent blustery morning, 9-year-old Luke Ring is near the front, wearing the blue cap of a Union soldier.
"I like that he was president during the Civil War and he wanted freedom for the slaves," says the boy, here with his family from Franklin, Tennessee, to see the theater box, draped in bunting, where Booth drew his pistol.
Lincoln's death elevated him to martyrdom, says Richard Wightman Fox , author of "Lincoln's Body: A Cultural History." Today, he still embodies the American ideal that anyone can reach the pinnacle. But with Lincoln now used to market auto insurance and barbecue sauce, the aura of sainthood has faded.
Instead, for many, he is the approachable president, a "model for what it means to be a leader," Fox says.
___
From Washington, the funeral train traveled to Baltimore, then Philadelphia, where lines to view Lincoln's body stretched three miles from Independence Hall. Then the 9-car procession continued north, retracing much of Lincoln's 1861 route to the White House.
On that first journey, the train made a stop in Peekskill, New York, celebrated by the local Lincoln Society for decades. But the depot, now a museum, also is the spot where, four years later, mourners gathered.
In late April, a replica of Lincoln's walnut coffin will lie in state in Peekskill's depot, with Civil War re-enactors standing sentry. Visitors will sign a condolence book to be sent to Springfield.
___
The Rev. Duncan Newcomer wrote his divinity school thesis on Lincoln. Leading congregations in Kentucky and Connecticut, he sermonized about him. Later, as a psychotherapist, Newcomer says he found Lincoln a prism for understand people's struggles.
Today, 71 and living in Belfast, Maine, Newcomer remains fascinated by Lincoln as a template for Americans still struggling with race relations and societal conflict.
"I do feel like he's been some kind of soul mate for me," Newcomer says.
Don Johnson , a trumpeter who played period tunes for the 2012 film "Lincoln," reflects on the long-dead president, watching modern audiences. One listener wept hearing the mournful "Home Sweet Home," long ago played in unison by Union and Confederate troops. Another piece, from a favorite Lincoln opera about war and sacrifice, made Johnson consider the mindset of a president who knew many he sent to battle would not return.
___
Twenty years ago, Dave Kloke watched a documentary about Lincoln's push to build the transcontinental railroad and became intrigued.
So Kloke , owner of a home construction business, built a working replica of a 1860s steam engine. Afterward, he began researching the custom-made train car that carried Lincoln's coffin. The original was destroyed in a 1911 fire.
Over the past five years, Kloke has built an exact copy of the maroon car, with gold leaf and brass fittings. He had hoped to hook it to the locomotive and re-travel the funeral route, but couldn't find financial sponsors. Still, in a workshop in Elgin, Illinois, he is scrambling to finish painting and upholstering, intent on getting the car to Springfield by early May.
___
The first school bus arrives just after 9, and soon the rotunda of Springfield's Abraham Lincoln Presidential Museum echoes with fifth graders.
Students from nearby Pleasant Plains Elementary study the photo of a 10-year-old soldier. "Holy smoke!" one boy says. A doorway leads to a darkened chamber cradling a replica of Lincoln's coffin.
"It's hard to imagine that it actually happened," fifth grader Nevaeh Ezzo says.
Daniel Stowell , director of the Papers of Abraham Lincoln at the neighboring presidential library, says we're still wrestling with race, state's rights, and self-government. Lincoln still draws people looking for answers.
Robert Davis recalls childhood in Detroit, hearing elders talk of his great grandparents' life after slavery and the family's road north.
Today, Davis, 72 and retired to Springfield, dons a Union uniform to re-enact the role of a runaway slave in the U.S. Colored Troops. This month, he directs a play about abolition.
"I think Lincoln was one of those men who could see through the fog of time, the fog of history, and he had a vision of a road for this country," Davis says. "We're not there yet. Ferguson showed us that ... but we're still on that road."
On an overcast afternoon, travelers circle into Oak Ridge Cemetery.
Ryan Harvey, with his parents from Gurnee, Illinois, rubs the nose on a bronze bust of Lincoln.
___
Adam Geller can be reached at features@ap.org. Follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/AdGeller
Featured Galleries
Top Stories and In-Depth Investigative Journalism
exclusively on
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

