2015-04-06 14:22:36
2015-04-06 18:29:19
2015-04-06 12:17:21
2015-04-05 16:07:06
2015-04-06 11:59:49
 |  By                                                                      KIMBERLY HEFLING
10 minutes ago
Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., sitting next to ranking member Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., sit down at the start of a hearing looking at ways to fix the No Child Left Behind law during a hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2015.  (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) | ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Two key senators have announced a bipartisan agreement on rewriting the No Child Left Behind education law.
Students would still take annual tests. But states would have more control over how the results are used to scrutinize schools.
Republican Tennessee Sen. Lamar Alexander is the chairman of the Senate education committee. He announced the agreement with Democrat Sen. Patty Murray. They say it will be debated next week.
The Senate agreement comes in contrast to a partisan stalemate in the House, where a vote scheduled in February on a GOP-bill was abruptly cancelled after it wasn't clear it would pass amid opposition from conservatives. Democrats also widely opposed the bill.
The Bush-era law is credited with shining a light on student performance, but led to complaints that requirements were unworkable.
Also on HuffPost:
of


U.S. House Minority Leader Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) speaks during her weekly news conference January 29, 2014 on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C.  (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi answers questions during the 'SiriusXM Leading Ladies' series hosted by SiriusXM host/veteran White House correspondent Julie Mason at The Newseum on March 4, 2014 in Washington, D.C.  (Photo by Paul Morigi/Getty Images for SiriusXM)
Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi answers questions during the 'SiriusXM Leading Ladies' series hosted by SiriusXM host/veteran White House correspondent Julie Mason at The Newseum on March 4, 2014 in Washington, D.C.  (Photo by Paul Morigi/Getty Images for SiriusXM)
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) answers questions during her weekly  press conference January 9, 2014 in Washington, D.C.  (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
House Democratic leaders (L-R) House Budget Committee ranking member Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, Rep. Steve Israel (D-NY), Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Rep. James Clyburn (D-SC) and Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-CA) talk to reporters after meeting with U.S. President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden in the Oval Office at the White House October 15, 2013 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) speaks during a press conference October 3, 2013 in Washington, D.C. Congressional Democrats and Republicans remain gridlocked on funding appropriations for the federal government as the shutdown enters its third day. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
U.S. House Minority Leader Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) (L) and U.S. Senate Majority Leader Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) (R) speak to the media with after a meeting at the White House with U.S. President Barack Obama, Speaker of the House John Boehner and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell about the government shutdown on October 2, 2013 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
U.S. House Minority Leader Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) speaks to members of the press during a news conference September 12, 2013 on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C.  (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
U.S. House Minority Leader Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) speaks during her weekly news conference September 27, 2013 on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) (R) speaks to the media with Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-CA) after a meeting with President Barack Obama on Capitol Hill, July 31, 2013 in Washington, D.C.  (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) speaks to the media at her weekly news conference on Capitol Hill, July 11, 2013 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) speaks to the media during her weekly news conference, on January 4, 2013 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)
Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi visits 'Late Night With Jimmy Fallon' at Rockefeller Center on August 17, 2012 in New York City.  (Photo by Jason Kempin/Getty Images)
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) holds her weekly news conference in the Visitors Center at the U.S. Capitol July 26, 2012 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
House Minority Leader Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) answers questions during her weekly news conference July 19, 2012 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
 Share
 Tweet
More:
Conversations
Options
Politics
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Politics
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Politics
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

