Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT).
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
Senior staff from the House committee that oversees the Secret Service have asked the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General to look into allegations that U.S. Secret Service employees circulated private personnel information about committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, Chaffetz's staff told CNN on Friday.
Related
When asked about the allegations, Secret Service spokesman Robert Hoback provided CNN with a statement from agency Director Joe Clancy: "Any allegations concerning potential privacy violations will be thoroughly investigated. Any USSS personnel found to have violated privacy policies will be held accountable and face appropriate administrative action."
Hoback said the Secret Service does not usually comment on specific internal policies and declined to comment on whether any have been violated.
The Secret Service referred CNN to the investigation being conducted by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General as to whether any policies were violated.
Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson apologized to Chaffetz in a phone call Thursday night for the congressman "being put in the situation that he had to acknowledge a matter that should have been kept confidential," according to DHS spokeswoman Marsha Catron.
Johnson also called for an investigation into the matter, Catron said.
CNN has learned that Clancy also sent a memo to staff Thursday reminding employees not to disclose personnel information. Clancy also called Chaffetz to apologize, according to Catron.
"Disclosure of such information by employees is prohibited unless the employee to whom the information is being disclosed has a need for such record in the performance of the duties," Clancy wrote.
The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.
38min
Some fans of Lucille Ball want her statue removed from a park in her hometown, saying the "ugly" likeness does not do justice to the "I Love Lucy" star.
The life-size bronze statue in Celoron, New York, has been likened to Conway Twitty, the snake fro...
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

