Katie Zezima and Robert Costa, Washington Post
Posted: Wednesday, April 8, 2015, 1:08 AM
LOUISVILLE, Ky. - Sen. Rand Paul, the maverick first-term senator who rode a tea party wave from a Kentucky ophthalmology practice to Congress, made a vigorous appeal Tuesday to conservatives angry with both parties as he entered the race for the Republican presidential nomination.
Unveiling his campaign at a hotel ballroom here, Paul offered himself as a singular voice and fresh-faced disrupter of the entrenched political order.
Paul's appeal was rooted in part in the purist libertarian plank championed for decades by his father, former Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul. But the senator also seeks to move beyond his father's base by stitching together a nontraditional coalition among disparate blocs of voters who share frustration with the federal government's role in their lives, whether evangelicals, tea party activists, or tech-savvy millennials.
Paul pledged to be a combative envoy in a crowded and competitive GOP field that is likely to feature at least a half-dozen serious candidates.
"I have a message, a message that is loud and clear and does not mince words: We have come to take our country back," Paul thundered at the start of his 30-minute, populist-heavy speech. "We have come to take our country back from the special interests that use Washington as their personal piggy bank."
Flanked by American flags, Paul, 52, emphasized inclusion for a party that has struggled to adapt to national demographic changes. While the setting was one of a classic launch - a dark-suited, flag-pin-wearing senator speaking on a ballroom stage - Paul said he would reach out to all Americans who have tuned out of the political process and have become weary of partisanship.
Paul fleshed out pillars of his emerging, eclectic platform: amending the Constitution to require a balanced federal budget and congressional term limits, offering "school choice" for students, spending more on infrastructure, and repealing "any law that disproportionately incarcerates people of color."
"The message of liberty, opportunity, and justice is for all Americans, whether you wear a suit, a uniform, or overalls, whether you're white or black, rich or poor," Paul said. "Many Americans, though, are being left behind. The reward of work seems beyond their grasp. Under the watch of both parties, the poor seem to get poorer, and the rich get richer."
But this amalgam of ideas makes Paul a potent threat to the rest of the GOP field. Paul comes from the dovish wing of the Republican Party and is reluctant to meddle in foreign affairs unnecessarily. He bashes Republicans and Democrats with impunity, telling the crowd here that he blames both blocs and the political system for the loss of opportunity. And he rails against corporate influence in a party that is dominated by business.
Paul's likely rivals are carving out their own primary profiles. Several conservative contenders are actively working to prevent Paul from sewing together the coalition he seeks, in particular Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas.
Cruz - who announced his campaign last month in front of thousands of young Christians at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. - has also sought to portray himself as a Washington outsider and has made overtures to both libertarians and evangelicals.
Defense hawks have reacted with particular alarm at the idea of Paul as the GOP nominee. A conservative advocacy group, the Foundation for a Secure and Prosperous America, released a television spot to air in early primary states this week that casts Paul as "dangerous" on international affairs and aligned with President Obama on nuclear negotiations with Iran.
"His problem is that his ambitions are in conflict with his actual principles," said John Bolton, a former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations in the Bush administration, who is mulling his own 2016 president bid. "Many people who like Rand Paul on fiscal and economic issues are appalled by his views on national security and his lack of understanding."
In his remarks, Paul said he was not an isolationist but a noninterventionist - supportive of the U.S. military forces, but reluctant to deploy them beyond a response to direct threats. He said his worldview was more akin to Ronald Reagan than George W. Bush, while also declaring that "the enemy is radical Islam" in current global conflicts.
Paul also offered a vivid and forceful critique of the National Security Agency's surveillance policies during the Bush and Obama administrations.
Holding up his smartphone and raising his voice, Paul decried "this vast dragnet by executive order." As president, he said, "I will immediately end this unconstitutional surveillance," drawing an enthusiastic response.
Rand Paul's Online Pitch
In addition to starting a presidential campaign Tuesday, Sen. Rand Paul also launched his online campaign store, and it is unlike any online presidential campaign store. There are the usual, like T-shirts
and lawn signs, but there's a lot more.
There are the Stand With Rand Car Mats ($70) and the Rand Paul Flip Flops (that's the name, at $20
a pair). There are the Don't Drone Me, Bro Shirts ($20) and a NSA spycam blocker ($15). And there is the Autographed Constitution by Rand Paul ($1,000).
One hitch: You can't just buy as much as you want, because the purchases count toward campaign contribution limits, which in 2015-16 is $2,700 per election, per candidate.
- Washington Post
Get the latest Philly.com Daily Headlines newsletter delivered to your email. Sign up now!

