University of Hawaii President Responds To Gov’s Mauna Kea Plan
May 26, 2015
HONOLULU, Hawaii – Following Governor David Ige’s press conference in which he laid out his vision for future stewardship of Mauna Kea, University of Hawaiʻi President David Lassner responded with a statement to reporters, saying that the university “can and must do better.”
The governor was critical of the state’s management of Mauna Kea (a responsibility which falls to the university’s Office of Mauna Kea Management under the Mauna Kea lease agreement with the Department of Land and Natural Resources.) Ige outlined ten actions that he wants to see the university to agree to.
Lassner read this statement to reporters today:
The university deeply appreciates the governor’s strong commitment to improved care for Mauna Kea. We share that commitment. We agree that the University can and must do better. We apologize for where our efforts have fallen short to date. The specific actions that the governor has requested today are consistent with what we have heard in public testimony, discussions, and meetings with numerous community members and stakeholders over the last two months. We appreciate his support, as accomplishing many of them will require close collaboration with the state and other partners.
University of Hawaii President David Lassner
President Lassner added that UH will have more information within the week.
Photo courtesy University of Hawaii
COMMENTS
Live Aloha
Someone please tell me, is that what you become when people talk about education? I don’t know was his answer to most of the questions. He sorry for not managing the mountain. Too late uncle you were being paid to do a specific job that wasn’t carried out. What is his punishment? Nothing. Sorry got you covered I guess while most people back pay after coming out of prison.
Video
VideoMay 25, 2015
Big Island Video News has been covering the events and issues of Hawaii County - Moku o Keawe - since 2008. We are dedicated to providing a free source of video journalism to residents of, and visitors to, the island.
Copyright © 2015 Big Island Video News

