More News Headlines
More Opinion Headlines
More Sports Headlines
More Food Headlines
More Entertainment Headlines
Lifestyle Sections
More Lifestyle Headlines
More Multimedia Headlines
Log in
Bloomberg
Gov. Scott Walker speaks Friday during the Leadership Forum at the 144th National Rifle Association Annual Meetings and Exhibits at the Music City Center in Nashville, Tenn. 2015.
By Jason Stein
Updated: 5:38 p.m.
The Scott Walker File
Targeting the votes of the nation's gun owners alongside other White House hopefuls, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker touted his loaded Second Amendment record in Tennessee before National Rifle Association members from around the nation.
With both Walker and Milwaukee County Sheriff David A. Clarke Jr. addressing the NRA's yearly conference in Nashville, Wisconsin was in spotlight at the event. Besides Clarke, most of the other speakers Friday were heavyweight contenders for the GOP nomination for president, with only the mega-states of Texas and Florida joining Wisconsin in fielding two speakers at the summit.
The lineup included former Govs. Rick Perry of Texas and Jeb Bush of Florida and current U.S. Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Marco Rubio of Florida. Walker sought to use a long record on gun issues — and a critique of President Barack Obama — to stand out among this stampede of potential presidential candidates.
"Sometimes I think that the current occupant in the White House forgets that when the president is sworn in he takes an oath to 'preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States,' " Walker said in his 15-minute speech . "Well, Mr. President...you don't get to pick and choose which part of the Constitution you support."
Since taking office four years ago, Walker has signed legislation allowing the concealed carry of firearms and other weapons by permit holders and establishing the so-called "castle doctrine" in which homeowners are presumed to have acted correctly if they shoot an intruder on their property. The Republican governor has also committed to sign legislation eliminating the state's 48-hour waiting period for handgun purchases.
Walker started deer and bird hunting about 10 years ago as an adult and owns a 12-gauge over-and-under shotgun and a .30-06 Remington 700 , an affordable bolt-action rifle that's been popular among sportsmen for more than 50 years.
The NRA has given Walker an A+ rating for his actions as an elected official. That distinction draws cheers from conservatives who favor personal protection and the right to bear arms and scorn from liberals who say the governor has opposed lifesaving legislation.
Rep. Evan Goyke (D-Milwaukee) said Friday that two people have been shot and killed within a block of his home at 2634 W. State St. and that several weeks ago he was awakened at night by gunshots. The shots were also captured by a police monitoring system known as ShotSpotter, he said.
"Too many people die — it can't get more serious than that," said Goyke, who favors background checks for all firearm sales. "There are ideas that are going to make it harder for people who are going to kill people with a gun to get a gun."
Walker and his administration have also:
■ Allowed permit holders to carry concealed firearms into state buildings , from the Capitol to the Division of Motor Vehicles, though visitors can't openly carry guns such as rifles, even if they hold permits.
■Made it harder for local officials to close for shooting ranges . The law allows any shooting range in operation as of 2013 to continue at its location regardless of any local ordinances.
■ Opposed legislation in 2013 to expand background checks on firearm sales as a way to reduce gun violence, saying he preferred focusing on mental health efforts instead. A poll by Marquette University Law School that year found that 81% of state residents supported applying existing requirements for background checks on firearms purchases to sales at gun shows and between private individuals.
Walker did sign legislation last year requiring people who are served with temporary restraining orders to be notified that they must surrender their firearms .
As a lawmaker in the Wisconsin Assembly in 2002, Walker voted against a concealed carry bill that passed the GOP-held Assembly 58-40 in a vote taken at 3:51 a.m. but failed to pass the Democratic-controlled Senate. At the time, Walker was jockeying to become the executive for Milwaukee County, the most urban in the state.
During that county executive race two months later, Walker told the Journal Sentinel: "My main gripe with that piece of legislation wasn't the bill itself, but the fact that it was voted on at 4 o'clock in the morning without any drafting attorneys or other staff around without the public even knowing about it."
During Walker's first run for governor in 2010, his campaign released a statement from then state Rep. Scott Gunderson, the sponsor of the 2002 bill, defending Walker's record on concealed carry. Walker ended up signing the legislation in 2011 after it was vetoed by Democratic Gov. Jim Doyle in 2003 and 2005.
Delivering his stump speech Friday, Walker said that overall he received strong ratings from the NRA as a state lawmaker.
"Some might say it's a scarlet letter. I consider it a badge of honor," Walker said. "I'm proud to stand up for law-abiding citizens and your right to possess firearms."
Whether it was Walker, Clarke or above all NRA executive vice president Wayne LaPierre, the conservative leaders who took the Nashville stage sought to stoke up their members for a 2016 fight against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who is expected to announce her bid for the Democratic presidential nomination this weekend.
As for Clarke, the conservative Democrat's appearance Friday alongside the GOP's top White House hopefuls underscored his rise as a national figure. Clarke has been a go-to guy on Fox News and other conservative outlets in recent months to discuss high-profile cases of white officers who shot and killed black males.
In November 2003, Clarke send Doyle a letter asking for the first of the Democrat's two vetoes of a concealed carry bill.
But today Clarke is an outspoken supporter of firearms for self-defense who has a knack for gaining notoriety for himself by drawing liberals and conservatives in heated debates. For instance, two years ago Clarke ran a radio spot calling on citizens to arm themselves and not just trust police, saying, "I need you in the game."
"With officers laid off and furloughed, simply calling 911 and waiting is no longer your best option," Clarke said in the ad. "You could beg for mercy from a violent criminal, hide under the bed, or you can fight back."
Clarke beat Milwaukee police Lt. Chris Moews in a Democratic primary race that drew national attention and some $600,000 in outside spending. Clarke on Friday credited the NRA for helping defend him after New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg's political action committee put up more than $150,000 to try to defeat him and notch a victory for gun control advocates.
"If not for your efforts and the help of the NRA, Michael Bloomberg probably prevails," Clarke said. "...I don't have his kind of wealth, but I had the NRA behind me."
More Scott Walker coverage
For more coverage of Gov. Scott Walker and the 2016 presidential race, from news stories to videos and interactive features, go to jsonline.com/scottwalker
© 2015 , Journal Sentinel Inc. All rights reserved.
E-mail Newsletter
The latest local news delivered to your inbox Monday-Friday around noon – or whenever there’s big breaking news.
Enter your e-mail address above and click "Sign Up Now!" to begin receiving your e-mail newsletter Get the Newsletter!
Login or Register to manage all your newsletter preferences.
All Politics Blog
From Madison and around the state, to Washington D.C., a daily dose of political news and glimpses behind the scenes.
Journal Sentinel coverage of the legislature, governor's office and other state politics in Madison and around Wisconsin.

