KEN THOMAS and JULIE PAC, Associated Press
By KEN THOMAS and JULIE PACE, Associated Press
Updated 2:23 am, Saturday, April 11, 2015
FILE - In this March 23, 2015 file photo, former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton speaks in Washington.  Clinton will launch her long-awaited 2016 presidential campaign on Sunday, April 12, 2015, according to people familiar with her plans. The former secretary of state is making her second presidential bid and enters the race in a strong position to succeed her one-time rival, President Barack Obama.                     (Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP / AP)
FILE - In this March 23, 2015 file photo, former Secretary of State...
A recent Gallup poll took a look at the familiarity and favorability of potential candidates for the 2016 presidential race. The standings of some politicians may surprise you.
(Jacquelyn Martin, STF)
A recent Gallup poll took a look at the familiarity and...
Candidate: Rick Santorum (R-Penn.)
Familiarity: 80 percent
Favorability: 38 percent
Unfavorability: 42 percent
Familiarity: 80...
Familiarity: 16 percent
Favorability: 7 percent
Unfavorability: 9 percent
Familiarity: 16...
Familiarity: 65 percent
Favorability: 33 percent
Unfavorability: 32 percent
Familiarity: 65...
Familiarity: 34 percent
Favorability: 18 percent
Unfavorability: 16 percent
Familiarity: 34...
Familiarity: 48 percent
Favorability: 25 percent
Unfavorability: 23 percent
Familiarity: 48...
Familiarity: 51 percent
Favorability: 27 percent
Unfavorability: 24 percent
Familiarity: 51...
Familiarity: 38 percent
Favorability: 21 percent
Unfavorability: 17 percent
Familiarity: 38...
Familiarity: 38 percent
Favorability: 22 percent
Unfavorability: 16 percent
Familiarity: 38...
Familiarity: 56 percent
Favorability: 31 percent
Unfavorability: 25 percent
Familiarity: 56...
Familiarity: 58 percent
Favorability: 32 percent
Unfavorability: 26 percent
Familiarity: 58...
Familiarity: 46 percent
Favorability: 27 percent
Unfavorability: 19 percent
Familiarity: 46...
Familiarity: 55 percent
Favorability: 32 percent
Unfavorability: 23 percent
Familiarity: 55...
Page 1 of 1
WASHINGTON (AP) — Hillary Rodham Clinton will end months of speculation and launch her highly anticipated 2016 presidential campaign on Sunday, skipping a flashy kickoff rally in favor of conversations with voters about the economic needs of middle class families and the next generation.
Clinton, the former first lady and secretary of state who lost the 2008 nomination to Barack Obama , will begin this time by courting voters in living rooms and cafes in early voting states. If victorious in 2016, she would become the nation's first female president.
The first official word of her candidacy will come in a video posted on social media and to supporters online, according to two people familiar with her plans. She will then turn to states such as Iowa and New Hampshire, looking to connect directly with voters in small, intimate settings.
The people familiar with her plans spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss them publicly.
Clinton has offered glimpses in recent speeches of why she will again seek the White House. Another preview came Friday in the epilogue to the paperback version of her 2014 book, "Hard Choices."
"Becoming a grandmother has made me think deeply about the responsibility we all share as stewards of the world we inherit and will one day pass on," Clinton writes in the new chapter, according to a preview published by The Huffington Post . "Rather than make me want to slow down, it has spurred me to speed up."
The Sunday announcement will mark Clinton's formal return to politics following a two-year leave from government.
Kicking off her campaign with straight-up retail politics, where she can talk to voters one-on-one, would be a departure from how Clinton jumped into her first presidential campaign. In 2007, Clinton also launched with a video, but followed it with a large, boisterous rally in Des Moines: "I'm running for president, and I'm in it to win it."
This time, the emphasis will be making a personal connection, rather than touting herself. Clinton allies say they hope the intimate settings will let people see a more nurturing, empathetic side, along with her sense of humor.
"I think she's going to make sure she's in the small venues, the living rooms, the smaller places where she can connect directly with the voters," said Sylvia Larsen , a former New Hampshire state Senate president and a longtime Clinton supporter. "When people meet Hillary Clinton, they are persuaded. She's very down to earth and very personable."
By campaigning heavily in Iowa and New Hampshire, Clinton hopes to avoid making the same stumbles she did in 2008, when she entered the race as a U.S. senator and a heavy favorite only to be upset by Obama.
"She's a very decent wonderful woman, but sometimes they come out of the New York atmosphere and they're surrounded by staff and they're insulated. We don't want to see that," said Davenport, Iowa, Mayor Bill Gluba , a Democrat elected in a nonpartisan election who backed Obama in 2008.
Clinton appears unlikely to face a formidable primary opponent, though a handful of lower-profile Democrats have said they are considering campaigns. Some liberals have tried to lure Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts into the race, but she has rejected the idea.
Should she win the nomination, Clinton would face the winner of a Republican primary field that could feature as many as two dozen candidates. They could include former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush , Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio , who is expected to announce his campaign in Miami on Monday.
Republicans have been preparing for a second Clinton campaign since she left Obama's administration in early 2013. They intend to campaign against her by equating her potential presidency to that of a "third" Obama term, during which they argue she would continue his most unpopular policies.
"I'm curious what her slogan is going to be. I suspect it won't be 'four more years,'" Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal , another possible GOP candidate, said Friday.
In the past few weeks, Clinton has faced withering criticism over her use of a personal email account and server while she was secretary of state, as well as the Clinton Foundation's acceptance of donations from foreign governments.
___
___

