Its easy and FREE!
Password
Confirm Password
Amazon announces plan to hire more than 6,000 full-time workers
Amazon announces plan to hire more than 6,000 full-time workers
Like this story, share it with millions of investors on M3
Amazon announces plan to hire more than 6,000 full-time workers
Amazon announces plan to hire more than 6,000 full-time workers
Post your opinion here
 
Investing.com - Investing.com -- Amazon.com Inc (NASDAQ:AMZN) announced the hiring of more than 6,000 workers on Monday in an effort to meet its growing customer demand. The employees will help process customer orders in the company's fulfillment centers across a dozen states nationwide.
'We're proud to be creating more than 6,000 full-time positions where employees will interact with state-of-the-art technology as part of their day-to-day roles,' Amazon's vice president of North America operations Mike Roth said in a statement. 'Amazon not only offers great pay and benefits, we also encourage our employees to continue to grow in their careers.'
As part of a broad incentives program, Amazon offers its hourly employees a wide range of educational benefits such as its Career Choice initiative, where the company will pre-pay up to 95 percent of tuition for courses related to in-demand fields, regardless of whether the skills are relevant to a career at Amazon. During The program, according to Amazon, offers classes from local community and technical colleges to employees at select U.S. fulfillment centers.
Amazon has more than 50 fulfillment centers nationwide, including in locations in Baltimore, Lexington, Ky. and Carlisle, Pa. – three of the locations where the company will be hiring new employees.
Last month, the Seattle-based company announced that its sales for the first quarter rose 15% on a year-over-year basis to $22.73 billion for the period.
Shares in Amazon on Monday in after-hours trading inched up 0.05 to 425.47.
Investing.com offers an extensive set of professional tools for the financial markets.
Read more News on Investing.com and download the new Investing.com apps for Android and iOS!
Modi premium not waning; mkt may have turned: Samir Arora
news videos
Explore Moneycontrol

