NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
By LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES
APRIL 10, 2015
Inside
Photo
"Clinton the Musical," with Duke Lafoon and Veronica J. Kuehn, at New World Stages. Credit Russ Rowland
First came the gnashing of teeth over Hillary Clinton ’s private email account , and her soon-to-be announced presidential campaign. Then, with a TED talk, Monica Lewinsky signaled her return to the spotlight. Now a show called “Clinton the Musical” has opened Off Broadway.
A person could be forgiven for wanting to hide under the bed until the 1990s stopped making a comeback.
But cowering would be a mistake. Far better to crawl out from behind that dust ruffle, head over to New World Stages and let “Clinton the Musical” quell your fears.
Smartly silly, hilariously impudent and sneakily compassionate, it is nearly guaranteed to leave you humming a bouncy, exuberant tune called “Monica’s Song” — the lyrics are unprintable — and thinking far more fondly of the eight scandal-plagued years this country spent with a president from a place called Hope. In this frothily satirical political history — which has a book by the Australian brothers Paul and Michael Hodge, and music and lyrics by Paul Hodge — No. 42 is actually two presidents: the urbane, silver-haired WJ Clinton (Tom Galantich) and the louche, rutting Billy Clinton (Duke Lafoon).
“In my whole life I have only ever loved two men,” Hillary (Kerry Butler) says. “And they happen to be the same man.”
So the famous Bill-and-Hillary package deal the country got in the 1992 election is a three-for-one bargain here, with WJ, Billy and brainy, resilient Hillary tussling for dominance in a White House designed by Beowulf Boritt, where the portraits on the walls show past presidents and their amours.
Chief among the enemies waiting to pounce is the deliciously sex-crazed special prosecutor Kenneth Starr (Kevin Zak), who gets his chance when Billy takes up with Monica (Veronica J. Kuehn). The prosecutor and Linda Tripp (Judy Gold), Monica’s predatory confidante, are the show’s only real villains. Newt Gingrich (John Treacy Egan) is more of a buffoon.
Reworked and largely recast since its run last July at the New York Musical Theater Festival, “Clinton” is now directed and choreographed by Dan Knechtges, and its tone is affectionately lampooning. Chelsea Clinton is mentioned by name only once, not cruelly. An occasional appearance by Socks the cat is enough to remind us that a family, not just a presidency, was at stake amid the Lewinsky scandal.
And Hillary? She tells us at the start that this is the story of her first presidency, and she comes off awfully well. In a flattering blue pantsuit by David C. Woolard, with hair designed by Tom Watson that looks consistently great, Ms. Butler makes a peppy, very funny Hillary whose ambitions are huge but whose capability is never in question.
Photo
In portrait frames, left, Kerry Butler, and right, Tom Galantich, eying the action between Mr. Lafoon and Ms. Kuehn. Credit Russ Rowland
The show’s poster art notwithstanding, “Clinton” doesn’t pit Hillary and Monica against each other. It’s sympathetic to both of them, painting Monica as naïve and terribly young. That lack of meanspiritedness is crucial to its success.
“Clinton the Musical” isn’t the sort of show that the real-life subjects are likely to find entertaining, but for the rest of us, it’s 95 minutes of healthy catharsis.
“Clinton the Musical” continues at New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton; 212-239-6200, clintonthemusical.com.
A version of this review appears in print on April 11, 2015, on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline:  Reliving The ’90s To Seek Catharsis . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...

