by Alex Ungerman      6:08 PM PDT, May 26, 2015
Getty Images
WTF is going on with the dictionary??
Merriam-Webster has added a whopping 1,700 new words to its dictionary, including a bunch of fun Internet phrases to anger your grandparents. With new words all the time it's getting hard to keep up! So let's take a look at some of the fun new entries.
"Any of various small images, symbols, or icons used if text fields in electronic communication to express the emotional attitude of the writer, convey information succinctly, communicate a message playfully without using words, etc."
This definition would be more fun if it were all emojis.
Clickbait (noun)
"Something (such as a headline) designed to make readers want to click on a hyperlink especially when the link leads to content of dubious value or interest."
Why would anyone ever do something like that?...
WTF (abbreviation)
"What the f**k -- used especially to express or describe outraged surprise, reclessness, confusion, or bemusement."
As in: "WTF?! WTF is in the dictionary now."
Meme (noun)
"An idea, behavior, style, or usage that spreads from person to person within a culture."
Those pictures with the impact font on your uncle's Facebook feed are what's keeping our social fabric together.
NSFW (abbreviation)
"Not safe for work; not suitable for work -- used to warn someone that a website, e-mail attachment, etc., is not suitable for viewing at most places of employment.
Luckily, this entry is very SFW.
Photobomb (verb)
"To step into the frame of a photograph as it is being taken as a joke or prank."
We're actually very happy with this entry.
In other words, deception has been added to the dictionary.
While these are fun and all, we should mention that one terrifying phrase has been added to the dictionary.
Collossal Squid (noun)
....
EVERYBODY RUN AWAY!!!
We're gonna go see if the dictionary makes sense to us anymore.
Sign Up
By checking this box you acknowledge our Privacy Policy and agree to the Terms of Use .
THANK YOU
Top Videos
We're Reading
MOST POPULAR
Sign Up
By checking this box you acknowledge our Privacy Policy and agree to the Terms of Use.
THANK YOU
CBS Television Distribution © 2015 CBS Studios Inc. All Rights Reserved

