Sections
Email
Print
Kershaw's RBI single 0:52
5/26/15: Clayton Kershaw lines an RBI single to right-center, driving in the Dodgers' sixth run of the inning
By Mark Bowman and Steve Bourbon / MLB.com |
+
0 COMMENTS
LOS ANGELES -- The Dodgers used a six-run fourth inning and a 10-strikeout gem from Clayton Kershaw to cruise to an 8-0 win over the Braves on Tuesday night at Dodger Stadium.
Kershaw didn't allow a baserunner until the fifth inning in what was his most impressive start of the season. The lefty scattered four hits over seven innings and added an RBI single in the fourth, the Dodgers' highest-scoring inning this season.
Braves starter Julio Teheran took a shutout into the fourth but was chased from the game after a two-run home run from Adrian Gonzalez with one out in the fifth inning. Teheran was charged with a career-high eight runs on 10 hits.
Dodgers' six-run 4th inning
ATL@LAD: Dodgers plate six runs in the 4th inning
5/26/15: The Dodgers put together a big rally, piling up six runs using three doubles and three singles in the 4th inning vs. the Braves
MOMENTS THAT MATTERED
Strategy backfires: With first base open in the fourth, the Braves elected to intentionally walk Gonzalez to get to Justin Turner . The third baseman responded with a looping RBI single to right field during the Dodgers' breakout inning.
Turner's RBI single
ATL@LAD: Turner lines an RBI single to right
5/26/15: Justin Turner ropes an RBI single to right, scoring Howie Kendrick to increase the Dodgers' lead to 2-0
Teheran resumes struggles: After facing the minimum through the first three innings, Teheran allowed the Dodgers to produce seven straight baserunners with one out in the fourth. Howie Kendrick , Andre Ethier and A.J. Ellis all recorded doubles as Teheran was reintroduced to the struggles he has experienced while producing a 4.91 ERA through this season's first 10 starts.
Ellis' RBI double
ATL@LAD: Ellis plates Ethier with RBI double
5/26/15: A.J. Ellis lines an RBI double to left, allowing Andre Ethier to score in the 4th inning
Gonzalez reaches a milestone: Already holding a 6-0 lead in the fifth, Gonzalez added a little more insurance with a two-run homer to chase Teheran from the game. The RBIs were the 1,000 and 1,001st of his career -- making him just the 12th active player to eclipse 1,000.
A-Gon homers, gets 1,000th RBI
ATL@LAD: A-Gon launches homer, records 1,000th RBI
5/26/15: Adrian Gonzalez drills a two-run home run to left, recording the 1,000th RBI of his Major League career
Tough night for Freeman: While the entire Braves lineup struggled to hit, first baseman Freddie Freeman had a particularly rough day at the plate. The lefty struck out in all four of his plate appearances.
SOUND SMART WITH YOUR FRIENDS
This marked the seventh time in 77 career starts that Teheran surrendered at least 10 hits. Unfortunately for the Braves, the young hurler has now done so in three of his past six starts. Teheran ended the first inning with his only strikeout of the night. He had fewer than two strikeouts in just two of the previous 72 starts he had made dating back to the start of 2013.
Teheran picks off Guerrero
ATL@LAD: Teheran makes a quick throw to nab Guerrero
5/26/15: Julio Teheran fires to second and Andrelton Simmons applies the tag on Alex Guerrero for the out
WHAT'S NEXT
Braves:: Alex Wood will take the mound when the Braves and Dodgers conclude this three-game series on Wednesday night. Wood missed his last scheduled start because he was battling a stomach virus that bothered him until he awoke on Monday.
Home: The Dodgers will close out the three-game series with Zack Greinke on the mound. Greinke has recorded a quality start in all nine of his appearances this season.
Mark Bowman is a reporter for MLB.com. Steve Bourbon is an associate reporter for MLB.com. This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

