Latest Headlines
Featured
Featured
Latest Headlines
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 816-234-4470 or email obits@kcstar.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
The Associated Press
04/08/2015 11:03 AM
04/08/2015 11:04 AM
Newly re-elected Mayor Rahm Emanuel has stopped by the Red Line's 95th Street station to greet commuters after his runoff victory.
Emanuel shook hands, posed for selfies and received hugs from supporters Wednesday morning. And he spent time listening to residents' concerns as they moved between buses and trains at the South Side station.
Emanuel won a second term Tuesday over Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garcia in a tougher-than-expected election.
Emanuel has acknowledged his brusque management style can rub people the wrong way and he has pledged to take a new approach.
On Wednesday, he sipped coffee and joked with reporters between chatting with commuters.
When a reporter asked, "How are you this morning?" Emanuel replied by saying "vertical."
Related
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emaneul greets commuters at a CTA station Wednesday, April 8, 2015, in Chicago, the morning after defeating Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garcia to win a second term. Emanuel is pledging to take a new approach as he faces rising pension costs, ongoing gang violence and negotiations with labor unions that spent millions trying to defeat him. | M. Spencer Green AP Photo
› ‹
Related
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emaneul greets commuters at a CTA station Wednesday, April 8, 2015, in Chicago, the morning after defeating Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garcia to win a second term. Emanuel is pledging to take a new approach as he faces rising pension costs, ongoing gang violence and negotiations with labor unions that spent millions trying to defeat him. | M. Spencer Green AP Photo
› ‹
Join the Discussion
The Kansas City Star is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

