Christie taking town hall style meeting to New Hampshire
April 6, 2015, 11:25 AM    Last updated: Monday, April 6, 2015, 11:30 AM
By MELISSA HAYES
State House Bureau | 
Christie speaking during the Somerville town hall meeting in March.
Governor Christie is taking his town hall-style events to New Hampshire next week where he’ll also appear at a Republican summit with more than a dozen other presidential hopefuls.
Christie’s political action committee announced the “Tell It Like It Is” town hall series with an online invitation. The first event will be held April 15 at the Lions Club in Londonderry. The governor will also hold a town hall on April 17, spokeswoman Samantha Smith said, adding that additional information on that event would be forthcoming.
Christie will be in New Hampshire for other events on April 14 and again on the next day as well as the scheduled town hall-style event. He plans to return April 17 for his second town hall and an appearance at the New Hampshire GOP’s First In The Nation Summit. Christie’s schedule keeps him in New Hampshire Saturday, the second day of the summit.
This would be the governor’s first multi-day trip to a key presidential primary voting state this year and the first time he’ll hold town halls. The visit comes as the governor’s popularity at home and amid Republican primary voters has fallen. But Christie, who has said he’ll decide whether to run in 2016 in the next three months, is expected to make a strong push in New Hampshire, where voters appreciate blunt politicians and town halls.
Matt Mowers, who worked for Christie’s administration and went on to become executive director of the New Hampshire GOP, is overseeing the Leadership Matters efforts in New Hampshire as state director. The PAC has hired a second staffer in The Granite State, Matthew Moroney, who most recently worked as a field director for Walt Havenstein’s failed gubernatorial bid last yaer, to oversee operations there.
Christie is known for his ability to take on opponents and deliver quick answers on his feet. He’s set to hold his 134th New Jersey town hall-style event in Old Bridge tomorrow as he continues to try and sell his latest push for public employee pensions and health benefits overhauls.
The trip marks the governor’s second visit to New Hampshire this year. He delivered the keynote address at the Merrimack County/Concord City Republican Committee Lincoln-Reagan Dinner in February, a visit that also included meet-and-greets, set up by the PAC, with local politicians and business leaders.
Email: hayes@northjersey.com
Tags:

