NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
Inside
Photo
Senator Rand Paul, left, Republican of Kentucky, in the Milford, N.H., Town Hall, where he held a campaign event Wednesday. Credit Ian Thomas Jansen-Lonnquist for The New York Times
NASHUA, N.H. —  Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky is spending the week trying to introduce himself to Americans as the sensitive, softer-edged face of the Republican Party . He talks about how helping his grandmother as she lost her sight inspired him to become an eye surgeon — and how on a volunteer mission in Guatemala, he enabled a husband and wife to see each other clearly for the first time in years.
But that is not the picture some of his biggest audiences are getting.
“No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, listen,” he chided Savannah Guthrie of NBC News on Wednesday morning after she summarized Mr. Paul’s views on foreign policy in a way he did not like. He then proceeded to lecture Ms. Guthrie on the proper way to conduct an interview.
“You’ve editorialized, let me answer,” he said. “You ask a question and you say, ‘Have your views changed?’ instead of editorializing and saying my views have changed.”
Rand Paul the irascible is rearing his head again, disquieting what should be a week of uncontroversial news after announcing that he would seek the Republican nomination for president.
It is an incarnation of the senator that has appeared occasionally since Mr. Paul first sprang onto the national political scene in 2010 — most often when he has been confronted about shifts in his views over time or about a statement he has made that has created a media maelstrom.
Democrats tried on Wednesday to cast Mr. Paul’s peevishness as sexist, given that two of the journalists he went after were women. But the record shows he has been just as impatient with men.
“Don’t you have something better to read than a bunch of crap from people who don’t like me?” he snapped at John Harwood , a journalist for CNBC and for The New York Times, when asked in 2013 about a former aide with a history of racially provocative remarks.
And on Wednesday, Mr. Paul’s patience grew short yet again in an interview with Philip Elliot of The Associated Press about his opposition to abortion rights. When pressed about exceptions if abortion were banned, Mr. Paul instead said: “I gave you about a five-minute answer. Put in my five-minute answer.”
Mr. Paul is fond of using phrases like “Don’t mischaracterize my position,” often when discussing issues like aid to Israel. He used to support a blanket abolition of foreign aid, then came around to a more nuanced — and, critics said, politically expedient — view that the United States should still provide aid to Israel.
But to hear him tell it, he is just a control freak.
“There is a certain amount of control in an interview,” he said in an interview on Wednesday after the NBC News episode, explaining that he sometimes disliked television interviews because he had so little control over how long he could speak.
“I think that there’s more editorializing going on than questioning sometimes,” he added. “And I, frankly, sometimes get annoyed with that. And I don’t hide it very well.”
Mr. Paul’s prickliness, when intentional, has become part of his political brand. He is known for baiting his critics on Twitter, like the time he slammed Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, potentially a rival Republican contender, for opposing normal relations with Cuba. Mr. Rubio, he wrote , “is acting like an isolationist who wants to retreat to our borders and perhaps build a moat.” (“Isolationist” is a label Mr. Paul’s critics often attach to him.)
Picking fights with the “liberal media” has also helped Mr. Paul energize the party’s conservative base. Right after he formally announced his candidacy on Tuesday, with dozens of journalists from across the country looking on, his Twitter feed showed a diatribe against the news media. “Thankfully, our national media doesn’t get to pick and choose our Republican Party ’s presidential nominees,” one post said.
Mr. Paul’s aides point out that he is one of the most accessible of the 2016 hopefuls, noting that he gave a string of interviews and held a news conference on Wednesday.
In the interview on Wednesday, Mr. Paul sounded as if he was tired of questions premised on the idea that he has contradicted himself.
Those were questions, he said, like, “ ‘O.K., well, we understand that you’ve been beating your wife for years and you’ve flip-flopped on 25 different issues and you used to believe this and you used to believe that,’ ” he said. “That isn’t journalism.”
But he realized that it was only the second day of his campaign and that the questions were not going to get any nicer. Didn’t he?
“It may gear ’em up even more if they see it annoys me,” he said.
Then Mr. Paul proceeded to attack both neoconservatives and President Obama, accusing them of warmongering.
“I think what would make the neocons very uncomfortable is if they looked in a mirror and they saw President Obama standing right there with them,” he said.
He smiled.
“Definitely put all of that in,” he said. “It was some good stuff.”
Kitty Bennett contributed research.

