Mitt Romney Is Happy Harry Reid Is Retiring
In yet another chapter in the ongoing feud between the two men, Mitt Romney lashed out at Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) on Sunday for refusing to apologize for accusations that Romney didn’t pay 10 years' worth of taxes. "...
In still another chapter in the ongoing feud in between the two gentlemen, Mitt Romney lashed out at Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) on Sunday for refusing to apologize for accusations that Romney did not pay back 10 years' worth of taxes.
"He certainly went around the line," Romney said of Reid throughout an interview on "Fox News Sunday." "But [I’m] unhappy in Harry Reid. That is seriously not ideal for an individual in his placement to make unsubstantiated promises, and of course they are totally incorrect. I want we could someway go back again and pay back no taxes, but the reality is I paid a good deal of taxes, produced tax returns so men and women can see that. Harry, I guess, is not significant enough to acknowledge it."
The tension extends back to the summer of the 2012 election, when Reid told The Huffington Publish that he heard from a source near to Romney’s old personal equity business that Romney experienced dodged taxes for a 10 years. Romney produced 1 year of tax returns, exhibiting an powerful tax amount of 13.nine p.c, and an estimate for one more.
Critics pounced on Reid each for his refusal to expose his supply (which he nonetheless has not accomplished) and for spreading the speculation with obvious glee. Reid when took to the floor of the Senate to say that the word was out that Romney hadn’t paid out taxes, with no acknowledging that he had set out the term. Recently, during interviews to mark his impending retirement, he cited Romney’s 2012 election reduction as a justification for spreading the rumor. Asked about it, Reid reported he had no regrets.
Love is clearly not missing concerning the two. On Sunday, Romney told Fox Information that he was glad to see Reid, who he deemed “terribly ineffective in pursuing an agenda that is correct for America,” retire.
“I want him properly in his retirement,” mentioned Romney, “but I’m happy he is out of the Senate before long.”
To which, Reid’s spokesman responded with....
The &quotineffective" demand seriously stings coming from President Romney.
— Adam Jentleson (@AJentleson) April twelve, 2015
-- This feed and its contents are the residence of The Huffington Article, and use is issue to our terms. It may perhaps be made use of for personal consumption, but may perhaps not be distributed on a web site.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers
12 April 2015 Sunday 16:11

