Beijing brushes off South China Sea complaints, adopts aggressive military stance
U.S., allies take issue with artificial islands, naval bases in disputed waters
atoll: China’s alleged ongoing reclamation of Mischief Reef in the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea is raising notices of Western nations concerned China may be attempting to assert dominance. (Associated Press) more >
By Guy Taylor -      The Washington Times -                                    Tuesday, May 26, 2015
U.S. officials pushed back Tuesday against China ’s attempt to justify its construction of artificial islands and naval bases in the contested South China Sea — and expressed wariness over a new Chinese Defense Ministry policy paper that analysts say is the most assertive military document issued to date by Beijing .
Calling for an expanded role for China ’s military in projecting power in the years ahead, the white paper blames China ’s neighbors for taking “provocative actions” in sovereignty disputes playing out over the region’s many reefs and island chains.
It calls on the Chinese navy to increase its “open seas protection” operations in the face of such provocation and says the Chinese air force should shift its focus “from territorial air defense to both defense and offense.”
The document was released at a rare news conference held in Beijing on Tuesday by uniformed Chinese military officers — one of whom made headlines by asserting that there is nothing unusual about an aggressive Chinese land reclamation project that has been underway for the past year in a disputed corner of the South China Sea, one of the world’s busiest and most economically critical shipping lanes.
Satellite images published last month by IHS Jane’s Defense Weekly showed Chinese vessels building a 1,600-foot-long runway in the Spratly Islands, an archipelago of reefs, islets and atolls at the center of mounting territorial fights between China , the Philippines , Vietnam , Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan.
Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun on Tuesday described China ’s runway construction as perfectly natural, asserting that it is comparable to the building of ordinary homes and roads on the Chinese mainland. “From the perspective of sovereignty, there is absolutely no difference,” he said.
The comments triggered unease in Washington , where State Department spokesman Jeff Rathke said U.S. officials “take a different view” of China ’s activities in the Spratlys. “ China ’s extensive land-reclamation efforts,” Mr. Rathke said, “have contributed to rising tensions” in the region.
China has bristled at what it sees as U.S. interference in the region and says it is within its sovereign rights in developing islands made from sand piled on top of reefs and atolls. The U.S. and many of China ’s neighbors see the island-building as an upending of the status quo by China to bolster its claims to the region and possibly pave the way for military installations far from the mainland.
The Chinese policy paper was made available in both Chinese and English, suggesting that Beijing wanted Washington to take note of the document.
In an apparently veiled reference to the U.S., the document said that “some external countries are also busy meddling in South China Sea affairs” and that “a tiny few maintain constant close-in air and sea surveillance and reconnaissance against China .”
The release of Tuesday’s policy paper in Beijing followed a formal Chinese protest over an incident last week in which a Chinese navy dispatcher warned off a U.S. Navy P8-A Poseidon surveillance aircraft as it flew over Fiery Cross Reef — the actual site of China ’s runway construction project.
The incident, documented by a CNN news crew on board the U.S. plane, prompted a biting editorial Monday in the official Communist Party newspaper Global Times, which warned Washington not to test Beijing ’s restraint or China would have “no choice but to engage.”
Not taking sides
While analysts downplayed the threat as hollow bluster, the Obama administration appears to have little appetite for diplomatically confronting China over its sovereignty claims in the South China Sea.
Mr. Rathke on Tuesday suggested that the administration is not taking sides in the sovereignty disputes playing out in the region, which is said to be traversed by an estimated $5 trillion in shipborne trade annually.
Shares
Shares
Question of the Day
Guy Taylor is the National Security Team Leader at The Washington Times, overseeing the paper’s State Department, Pentagon and intelligence community coverage. He’s also a frequent guest on The McLaughlin Group and C-SPAN.
His series on political, economic and security developments in Mexico won a 2012 Virginia Press Association award.
Prior to rejoining The Times in 2011, his work was ...
Latest Stories

