April 05, 2015
BEIJING — A Chinese-born geologist from Houston was released from prison in China after serving more than eight years on charges of procuring state secrets, a human rights group said Saturday.
Xue Feng, 50, returned to his family on Friday after being deported immediately after his release, according to the Dui Hua foundation, a human rights organization based in San Francisco.
The foundation has long advocated on Xue’s behalf, and executive director John Kamm said in a statement that he was relieved Xue was home after what he called a ‘‘terrible ordeal.’’
The State Department said it was aware of reports that Xue had returned to the United States, but did not comment further.
‘‘Due to privacy concerns, we cannot divulge information on these cases,’’ it said.
Xue was detained in November 2007 and sentenced in 2010 on charges of illegally gathering information on China’s oil industry.
His case raised questions about whether normal business activities elsewhere might conflict with China’s vague state security laws. Supporters also said Xue was physically abused in detention and was denied proper legal rights.
Xue was born in China and earned a doctorate at the University of Chicago. After becoming a US citizen, he returned to his native country to work for the US consultancy firm IHS Energy, now known as IHS Inc.
American diplomats had lobbied hard for Xue’s release, saying his alleged crimes didn’t warrant the harshness of his sentence.
In pronouncing him guilty, the Beijing No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court said his actions ‘‘endangered our country’s national security.’’
The verdict said Xue received documents on geological conditions of onshore oil wells and a database that gave the coordinates of more than 30,000 oil and gas wells belonging to China National Petroleum Corp. and listed subsidiary PetroChina Ltd.
The case underscored the unwillingness of China’s legal system to recognize the status of Chinese who have given up their citizenship and become citizens elsewhere.
Please enter a valid email address
Thank you for subscribing to Today's Headlines!
Enjoy your first free article
You can now read 5 free articles. Get unlimited access for just 99¢.
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Want each day's news headlines delivered fresh to your
inbox every morning? Just connect with us
in one of the following ways:
Facebook
Google
or
BostonGlobe.com will never post anything without asking.
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Read it all, now.
Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.
Get full access today for just 99¢
Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .
Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .
Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
High-quality journalism from the region’s largest newsroom
Convenient access across all of your devices
Today’s Headlines daily newsletter
Subscriber-only access to exclusive offers, events, contests, eBooks, and more
Less than 25¢ a week
GET FULL ACCESS NOW
GET FULL ACCESS NOW

