Back
Video
Back
Weather Alerts
Flood Warning issued May 25 at 1:06PM MDT expiring May 26 at 9:00PM MDT in effect for: Pueblo
Flood Warning issued May 23 at 7:50AM MDT expiring May 27 at 6:00PM MDT in effect for: Otero
Flood Warning issued May 22 at 8:58PM MDT expiring May 25 at 12:00AM MDT in effect for: Weld
Flood Warning issued May 22 at 8:58PM MDT expiring May 24 at 3:00AM MDT in effect for: Morgan
Flood Warning issued May 22 at 8:58PM MDT expiring May 27 at 12:00AM MDT in effect for: Weld
GILLIAN MOHNEY, Good Morning America
6:17 PM, May 26, 2015
9 mins ago
Five-year-old Maliyah Jones, who has been undergoing cancer treatments for approximately three years, is seen hugging another young cancer patient in this photo posted to Facebook by Tazz Jones on May 3, 2015
Tazz Jones/ABC News
Five-year-old Maliyah Jones, who has been undergoing cancer treatments for approximately three years, is seen in a photo posted to Facebook by her mother on Oct. 2, 2014.
Tazz Jones/ABC News
Previous
Next
A snapshot of a young cancer patient has gone viral after the girl's mother posted the picture on Facebook.
Maliyah Jones is just 5 years old but as already been battling neuroblastoma for nearly three years, according to a  Facebook page  run by her mother, Tazz Jones.
Earlier this year, Jones snapped a picture of her daughter with another young cancer patient, Madelina DeLuca, as they looked out on the Pittsburgh skyline, reportedly at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh. Jones told  WPXI-TV  in Pittsburgh that Maliyah had met her new friend that day and was just excited to hang out.
Madelina was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia, also at the age of 2.
"We just met that day. Maliyah ran up to her," Jones told WPXI-TV. "They were hugging and looking out the window and I asked, 'Can I take a picture of them.' And I took the picture and that was it."
Jones said on Facebook that Maliyah is now getting further treatment at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York, after having a relapse this year.
"There's always someone there, always a friend. Children helping children is always the best support because they don't know," Tazz told WPXI-TV. "I've helped mothers get through their child being diagnosed, and they've helped me."
Tazz said she wants people who see the picture of her daughter and Madelina to take away a new sense of hope.
A fundraiser has been set up for Maliyah Jones. Click  HERE  to donate.
Donations for Madelina DeLuca can be made  HERE .
Stay in Touch Anywhere, Anytime with News, Weather and Video -- Download the 7NEWS app:

