May 27, 2015    Last updated: Wednesday, May 27, 2015, 1:21 AM
FROM NEWS SERVICE REPORTS | 
The California Highway Patrol released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of free agent defensive end Ray McDonald on suspicion of child endangerment and domestic violence.
KRON-TV reported Tuesday that a woman, the mother of the alleged victim, says McDonald was drunk when she called authorities before dawn Monday.
McDonald was later arrested at a San Jose home on suspicion of assaulting a woman who was holding the couple's baby.
The caller says she wasn't at the home but that her daughter told her to call police, according to the audio.
Later in the day the Bears released McDonald.
McDonald's agent Tom Condon has not returned multiple calls seeking comment.
MANZIEL BACK AT IT: Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel was on the practice field in front of journalists for the first time since his release from rehab.
Sporting a shorter haircut, Manziel took part in Cleveland's first practice of the third phase of the team's off-season program. Manziel spent 10 weeks at Caron Addiction Treatment Center in Pennsylvania for an unspecified issue before being discharged April 10.
The former Heisman Trophy winner recently moved out of a downtown apartment to a golf community on Cleveland's west side.
Coach Mike Pettine and several of Manziel's teammates have praised his re-commitment following a first year in which he played poorly in two starts. He'll open camp as Cleveland's No. 2 quarterback behind Josh McCown.
CHIEFS' BERRY DOING WELL: Chiefs coach Andy Reid said Eric Berry is continuing his recovery from Hodgkin lymphoma.
"Eric is doing well," Reid said. "He's going to get his big end-of-the-school [year] exam down here. He's been through all the treatments, so now the doctor is going to sit down with him and go over exactly what the results of all that are.
"So we don't have that, and Eric doesn't have that quite yet, but everything up to this point has point has been very positive from the doctor and from Eric. So I think we're heading in the right direction with that."
BRIEFS: The Cowboys signed WR A.J. Jenkins, a former first-round draft pick of the 49ers (2012). … Several players were no-shows for their team's voluntary Organized Team Activities, although it's likely some, including Michael Bennett and Bruce Irvin (Seahawks) and Justin Houston (Chiefs) were contract related.
© 2015 North Jersey Media Group

