Claudio Neu-Ries
During the morning of Saturday, April 25th, an earthquake of 7.8 magnitude occurred 10 miles underneath the surfaces of central Nepal, 50 miles away from Nepal’s capital, Kathmandu. Following the initial quake at 11:56am, 35 more aftershocks occurred, ranging from a magnitude of 4.5 to 6.6. Tremors from the quakes reached as far as Southern China, India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. The earthquake also caused numerous avalanches in the Himalayas, which devastated the Mt. Everest base camp. The first earthquake lasted approximately twenty seconds, which was enough time for it to affect over 8 million people, injuring over 9,000, and killing more than 6,000. Prime minister Sushil Koirala has predicted that the death toll may surpass 10,000, as information from rural villages and cities has yet to be received.
With over 200,000 homeless – many more without food and water – the Nepalese government has been overwhelmed by the earthquake’s severity, and is struggling to supply enough aid to its residents. “The disaster has been so huge and unprecedented that we have not been in a position to meet the expectations of the needy people,” Minendra Rijal, Nepal’s communication minister. “But we are ready to accept our weakness, learn and move ahead in the best way possible.”
Frustration from the government’s slow response to the earthquake has spread throughout the streets of Kathmandu. On Wednesday the 29th, riot police arrived to the country’s capital to retaliate against over 200 disheartened earthquake survivors, who began protesting in front of Parliament. Many residents have gone forth and blocked the roads inside the capital, raiding supply vehicles that were seemingly just passing through.
With chaos inflicting the country, the people of Nepal are in dire need for any sort of help they can get. Natural disasters at such a magnitude, especially in a country where local aid is seemingly inefficient, take years for recovery. Various organizations, such as Unicef, The Salvation Army, and the Red Cross are soliciting donations to aid Nepal.
48 countries have already contributed to the relief, with donations and humanitarian supplies. The UN has also issued an appeal for $415 million for immediate aid over the next 3 months. Jamie McGoldrick, the UN’s humanitarian coordinator for Nepal, said that although the UN’s contributions are encouraging, providing aid to the remote areas affected is the next challenge. He pointed out that the incoming monsoon season will also add difficulty.
Sharing
Related Posts
Related Posts

