Miley Cyrus tweets US Senator's phone number in protest at controversial religious freedom act
Singer shared Tom Cotton's number in response to his comments on controversial new law
Photo: Getty
Miley Cyrus has posted the phone number of Arkansas Senator Tom Curry in protest at comments he made regarding Indiana's controversial Religious Freedom Restoration Act.
After calling Indiana Governor Mike Pence an "asshole" on Instagram , the singer has now moved onto Cotton after the Republican defended the law, which many believe prohibits gay rights.
Appearing on TV to talk about the act, Curry told CNN's Wolf Blitzer; "I think it's important we have a sense of perspective about our priorities. In Iran, they hang you for the crime of being gay. They’re currently imprisoning an American preacher for spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ in Iran. We should focus on the most important priorities that our country faces right now."
Cyrus took exception to this and promptly shared Cotton's phone number with her 19.4 million Twitter followers.
Let&#39;s stir some shit up! Senator Cotton (202) 224-2353 !!!! Happy Hippies call &amp; express why freedom is important to us &amp; our country!
"Senator Cotton thinks gay community needs to get 'perspective' cuz 'In Iran they hang you for the crime of being gay,'" Cyrus tweeted. "Let's stir some shit up! Senator Cotton (202) 224-2353!!!! Happy Hippies call & express why freedom is important to us & our country!"
Indiana's Religious Freedom Act was passed into law earlier this week. It proved controversial with many saying it made it legal for business owners to use religion as a means of justifying discrimination against minorities, including those in the LGBT community.
After Indiana passed their RFRA, Cyrus explained that she was opposed to the bill because she had "dedicated my life to being whoever it is that I want to be." "If you don’t choose to live that way, you’re not going to last in this generation because we are overtaking you," Cyrus said. "They are dinosaurs, and they are dying off. We are the new generation, and with that will come so much."
Indiana Governor Mike Pence has since signed a change to the act that means it can no longer be used to discriminate against people based on sexual orientation or gender.
Read More On This Artist
Sign up to our newsletter

