Illinois Supreme Court
John J. Kim, Chicago Tribune
The Illinois Supreme Court Building is shown in March 2015 in Springfield. Gov. Bruce Rauner says he doesn't trust the justices on the high court because of the state's system of electing judges.
The Illinois Supreme Court Building is shown in March 2015 in Springfield. Gov. Bruce Rauner says he doesn't trust the justices on the high court because of the state's system of electing judges. (John J. Kim, Chicago Tribune)
Rauner takes aim at Illinois Supreme Court
Rauner criticizes system of electing state Supreme Court justices as high court considers pension law.
Gov. Bruce Rauner , who has been barnstorming the state to promote his message that Illinois government is corrupt and in need of "structural reform," took aim Tuesday at the Illinois Supreme Court, saying he doesn't trust its justices.
The Republican governor has often criticized the state's system of electing judges to the bench and has advocated barring trial lawyers from making campaign contributions to them. But Rauner's remarks Tuesday to a suburban newspaper editorial board took that argument a step further, targeting the high court specifically.
"I don't trust the Supreme Court to be rational in their decisions," Rauner told the Daily Herald. "I think they're activist judges who want to be legislators."
Asked by the newspaper if he believes the state's high court is part of a "corrupt" system, Rauner said: "Yes, correct. Yes. Yes. We have a system where we elect our judges, and the trial lawyers who argue cases in front of those judges give campaign cash to those judges. It's a corrupt system."
Land-of-Lincoln
Rauner, too, has pushed cutting pension benefits to help pull the state out of the red. But in a sign of his distrust of the court, he is talking about seeking a constitutional amendment in an attempt to get around language in the state constitution that holds public pension benefits cannot "be diminished or impaired."
The justices on the high court signaled devotion to that language when they ruled in favor of retirees in a separate case last summer involving an attempt to make retirees pay more for their state-subsidized health care. The court ruled 6-1 that the language in the constitution was "aimed at protecting the right to receive the promised retirement benefits, not the adequacy of the funding to pay for them."
Rauner told the Tribune on Monday he thought the court's ruling in that case was "off base." He said he wants to use a constitutional amendment to "end-run the years of lawsuits" that would come from his plan to reduce pension benefits.
"We can't just let the Supreme Court decide these issues just with the vague language we've got now," Rauner said. "I have no confidence."
Rauner previously said he wanted to wait for the Supreme Court ruling on the 2013 law so that justices could provide guidance on whether pensions could be altered. Rauner has discussed a plan to grant current workers the benefits they are owed until July 1, then shift them all into a pension plan for newer employees with vastly reduced benefits.
The seven justices on the Illinois Supreme Court are elected to 10-year terms and face retention elections when their terms expire. Democrats hold a 4-3 majority on the panel. For decades, pro-business groups have poured millions of dollars into Supreme Court races, as have trial lawyer groups who oppose limits on civil damage awards. Many of the pro-business groups were aligned with Rauner in last year's governor's race.
Rauner said he favors a merit-based judicial selection process, something that's been discussed in the state for more than 30 years but has failed to gain traction, and wants to set up a task force to study how judges are chosen in other states.
"Right now, they're sort of immersed in politics, and groups that benefit or are impacted by their decisions, or law firms that argue cases in front of them and therefore have their lives and their incomes based upon the decisions, can donate campaign cash to them," Rauner said Tuesday in an interview with the Tribune. "And it's a conflict of interest, in the whole system. It's the judicial system. It's not one particular court."
A Supreme Court spokesman declined to comment on the governor's remarks.
Comments
Loading

