Try the Week Magazine
Johnsplaining
 
Your online passwords are terrible. You know that. On Last Week Tonight, Edward Snowden explained to John Oliver why that matters. "Bad passwords are one of the easiest ways to compromise a system," he said. "For someone who has a very common eight-character password, it can literally take less than a second for a computer to go through the possibilities and pull that password out."
Oliver tested out some passwords in front of Snowden, and it turns out misspelling common words or sticking in a number ("4eva") won't help you. "The best advice here," Snowden said, "is to shift your thinking from passwords to passphrases." His suggestion: something like "margaretthatcheris110%SEXY" — which is not only harder to crack but probably also easier to remember than a 13-character mix of letters, numbers, and symbols. John Oliver was impressed: "Wow, that is a password that not even a computer would guess." Now you know, but as Oliver made clear, knowing is just half the battle. —Peter Weber
 
A news helicopter caught deputies arresting and then beating a man after a chase on horseback in Apple Valley, California.
Pursuit on horseback ends w/deputies stunning man with Taser, beating him, @TonyNBCLA reports. http://t.co/7hyrvFFHf7 pic.twitter.com/B1MpQ0B6zq
The strange pursuit began Thursday afternoon, when authorities say a search warrant was served at a home in the area. The suspect fled in a vehicle, ditched the car several miles away, and then stole a horse, injuring the animal as they rode through rugged terrain. When deputies caught up to the suspect — identified as Francis Jared Pusok, 30, of Apple Valley — he was thrown off the horse and hit with a Taser. Authorities say the Taser did not work because of his loose clothes, and a use of force occurred.
NBC Los Angeles' NewsChopper 4 was covering the chase, and was able to record the arrest and subsequent use of force as it happened. The station estimates that Pusok was kicked 17 times, punched 37 times, and hit with batons four times in the two minutes after he was hit with the Taser. The video does not appear to show Pusok receiving medical treatment, and he is now hospitalized with unknown injuries. Three deputies also received medical attention — two for dehydration, and one for injuries sustained after being kicked by the horse.
San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon has ordered an immediate internal investigation, and told NBC Los Angeles , "I can certainly understand the concerns in the community based on what they saw on the video. I'm disturbed by what I see in the video. But I don't need to jump to conclusions at this point, until we do a complete and throughout investigation. If our deputy sheriff's did something wrong, they'll be put off work and they'll be dealt with appropriately, all in accordance with the law as well as our department policy."
Everyone has long expected former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to run for president again in 2016, but nobody knew when she was going to make it official. Well, according to the New York Daily News and The Guardian , Sunday's the day. Multiple Clinton sources wouldn't confirm the Sunday launch with Reuters  and The Wall Street Journal , but they did confirm that the big announcement is coming very soon.
Clinton would be the first Democrat in the race, and the strong favorite to win her party's nomination. Formally declaring her candidacy this early will let her start raising money — this is the start of the quarter, and she will have until the end of June to bring in donations before reporting her haul. She would also "have a full operation to help her not only define her policies but to ward off all these attacks that are coming from the right as well," Democratic strategist Jim Manley tells the Daily News .
prepare for major brain freeze
 
If you're the type who scoffs at the size of a Big Gulp, you'll be pleased to know that on Saturday, 7-Elevens across the United States will let customers fill up almost any gigantic container they want with Slurpee during "Bring Your Own Cup Day."
7-Eleven rolls out BYO Slurpee cup day this Saturday | http://t.co/YAVycxMO51 pic.twitter.com/QUYiHZ0mP9
For $1.49 — the average price of a 22-ounce Slurpee — you can top off any cup or cup-like item with all the red dye and slush that will fit. Of course, there are some rules, primarily that the receptacle cannot be any larger than 10 inches in diameter. For those creative types who might look at a trash can or boot and see a cup, that's not allowed — a trash can is too big, 7-Eleven says, and a shoe is just disgusting. Cheaters, beware: There will be a display set up next to the Slurpee machine, and if your cup doesn’t fit the 10-inch diameter hole, you're done.
Of course, if you don't feel like bringing a crock pot or kiddie swimming pool with you to 7-Eleven, you can always just grab one of the regular plastic cups they always supply and walk away with a measly 40 ounces.
 
If a Carnival band in Rio did a samba-inspired cover of Madonna's "Holiday," it might sound like the version Madonna herself performed on Thursday night's Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon and his house band, the Roots. The entire song is performed using (mostly) acoustic instruments that you might find in a grade school classroom, and honestly, it's a pretty great update of the 1980s hit. So relax, take a mental holiday to Brazil, or your childhood, or your car blasting an '80s rock station, and watch below. —Peter Weber
 
One person is dead and seven are injured after tornadoes left a 50-mile path of destruction across north-central Illinois.
At least one person killed after tornadoes strike north central Illinois http://t.co/HnZdUTNBpc pic.twitter.com/T8atmUsWz2
The one recorded fatality was in the hamlet of Fairdale, which a nearby resident told  the Chicago Tribune was "pretty well destroyed" by a tornado. Rockford Fire Department division chief Matthew Knott told ABC-7 that "every single" structure in Fairdale sustained damage, and trees were uprooted, power lines down, and houses were in pieces across the entire area hit by the tornadoes. The weather also caused the cancelation of more than 800 flights out of Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, USA Today reports .
Oklahoma legislators believe they have come up with a good backup plan in case lethal injection isn't a viable option for an execution: Nitrogen gas hypoxia.
The Oklahoma Senate sent the governor a bill that says the new method can be used if lethal injections drugs become unavailable. Gov. Mary Fallin (R) is a supporter of the death penalty, but her office would not comment on the bill. Executions in the state are on hiatus, following a botched execution last year that took 43 minutes to complete. The U.S. Supreme Court is now considering if the state's lethal injection method using three separate drugs is constitutional.
It's also been difficult for many states to get lethal injection drugs, as more and more pharmaceutical companies refuse to sell them for use in executions. The bill's author, Rep. Mike Christian (R-Oklahoma City), says that the process is "fast and painless. It's foolproof." Since it's easy to get nitrogen, "there is no way for anti-death penalty activists...to restrict its supply." Rep. Emily Virgin (D-Norman) thinks this is a dangerous line of thinking, telling The Associated Press , "It just hasn't been tried, so we don't know. This is all based on some Internet research and a documentary from the BBC."
In a win for bees, Lowe's announced Thursday it will stop selling a pesticide that is suspected of killing honeybee populations that are necessary for pollinating crops, completely phasing it out of products and plants by the spring of 2019.
Neonicotinoids, or neonics, boost yields of crops, but can also be used on plants that people buy for their homes. Scientists believe that bee deaths are linked to neonics, Reuters reports , and are extremely worried, as honeybees pollinate plants that produce roughly 25 percent of food eaten by Americans.
A study released in 2014 by Friends of the Earth and the Pesticide Research Institute showed that 51 percent of plants purchased at Lowe's, Walmart, and Home Depot in 18 cities in the U.S. and Canada had high enough levels of neonics to harm or kill bees. Home Depot has asked its suppliers to label plants treated with neonics, and is conducting tests to see if plants can remain healthy without the use of the pesticide.

