Recent
Recent
Recent
Other Vehicles for Sale
100% precincts reporting
100% precincts reporting
100% precincts reporting
100% precincts reporting
100% precincts reporting
9 hours ago  •  SCOTT BAUER Associated Press
MADISON, Wis. — Voters have approved a constitutional amendment changing the way the chief justice of the Wisconsin Supreme Court is chosen.
The seven-member court will now vote to decide their chief justice. For the past 126 years the position has gone to the most senior member of the court.
Shirley Abrahamson has served as chief justice since 1996 and is the longest-serving chief justice in Wisconsin history. She is viewed as part of a liberal minority.
Opponents to the amendment said the Republican-controlled Legislature targeted Abrahamson for removal by putting the question on the ballot.
But supporters say having the justices pick their leader will make the court run better. Only seven states decide chief justice by seniority, while 22 have justices decide.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
- 15 minutes ago
when the pendulum swings back, and the liberals are the majority, the conservatives will want to change the rules back.  What do you expect when 51% of the voters in Wisconsin are idiots.
- 1 hour ago
I hope the foolish voters that supported this amendment won't be proved wrong by the rest of us.  I don't think they understand how this change in these current political times may well hurt the little man/woman even more via the Judicial Branch of WI government.  And even MORE giveaways to Wisconsin Manufacturing, the 1%, the rich, etc.
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Follow The La Crosse Tribune
Top Jobs
Fiberglass insulation is flimsy and does nothing to increase t…
At RKB Accounting & Tax Service our goal is to empower our…
Blue Bus Photo Booths
If you're looking to liven up your corporate event or company …
Loading…
Do you earn above or below the national average of $24.86 per hour?
Above
Below
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Email:
La Crosse Tribune Newsletter
Breaking News, News Update and Sports Update Headlines. Delivered at 11a.m. daily.
La Crosse Tribune promotions
Business Report Newsletter
La Crosse Tribune Jobs Newsletter
New employment opportunities in the region.
La Crosse Tribune Homes Newsletter
Local homes for sale.
Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUVs, Motorcycles, ATVs, Boats, RV's & more
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
SEARCH ALL ADS
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with lacrossetribune.com account:
Username & Password Required!

