Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker was the third-most searched potential 2016 candidate on Google last month, according to trend data published by CNN.
Recent
The Latest
Recent
Recent
Saved
×
Get news alerts delivered to your inbox. Sign up here!
Cap Times Headlines Sent each morning at 6
Cap Times Opinion Sent each morning at 11
Cap Times Recap "In Case You Missed It" Sent each afternoon at 5
 Madison.com Features Sent each morning at 6
 Madison.com Food & Drink Sent each Thursday morning at 11
 Madison.com Movies Sent each Friday morning at 9
Email:
 
Take a look at the stories from around our area and world that are making news today.
Scott Walker punches back against Obama remarks about his foreign policy credentials: The Washington Times' David Sherfinski reports : "Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker responded to a recent dig against him by President Obama by saying Mr. Obama should spend more time trying to figure out how to work with other politicians and reiterating his criticism of ongoing negotiations over a deal on Iran’s nuclear program. 'This is a president who should spend more time trying to figure out how to work with governors and members of Congress instead of attacking them,' Mr. Walker said Wednesday evening on Fox News’ 'Hannity' program."
Wisconsin Republicans propose exempting 2-year campuses from budget cuts: Wisconsin Radio Network reports : "A proposed $300 million state funding cut to the University of Wisconsin System budget would be too hard on the system’s two year campuses, like Marshfield and Wausau. That’s according to State Representative John Spiros (R-Marsfield), who is working with other lawmakers including, Representative Dave Heaton (R-Wausau) to try saving the two year campuses from the budget cuts. 'In our two year schools, I know that we have one in the campus here at Marshfield, there’s campuses throughout that would be hurt immensely from those budget cuts,' Spiros said. The motion would exempt these smaller campuses from the cuts."
Former Administration Secretary Marc Marotta, 52, died unexpectedly Wednesday:  The Journal Sentinel's Cary Spivak and Dane Bice report : "A 1984 graduate of Marquette University, he was a three-time Academic All-American. Marotta played under Hank Raymonds his first three years, and Rick Majerus in his final season, 1983-'84, when he served as team tri-captain with Doc Rivers and Terrell Schlundt. He was drafted by the New York Knicks but chose Harvard Law School instead. He earned his law degree in 1987."
Madison man charged with trying to join ISIS: The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel's Mary Spicuzza reports : "Joshua Ray Van Haften, 34, was charged in federal court with attempting to provide material support and resources — 'namely himself as personnel' to a foreign terrorist organization. A federal complaint released Thursday said that Van Haften traveled to Istanbul, Turkey on Aug, 26 with the intent of crossing Turkey's border and joining ISIS."
Milwaukee Bucks co-owner Wesley Edens to personally invest in arena-related development: The Journal Sentinel's Don Walker reports : "Edens said he told designers and architects to create a space where people would come and watch a Green Bay Packers game. As Edens retold the story, this is what he told designers: 'People in Wisconsin are plenty hardy. Keep the rain and snow off their head. Get them out of the wind. People will sit and drink beer and watch a World Cup game. I want that space to be the biggest outdoor sports bar in the country. That's how I think of it. It gives people a reason to come down there.'"
Hillary Clinton hires Google exec to be chief technology officer: The Washington Post's Philip Rucker writes : "Stephanie Hannon, who is Google's director of product management for civic innovation and social impact, will become the chief technology officer of the expected Clinton campaign, according to the Democrats, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the appointment. At Clinton's New York campaign headquarters, Hannon will serve on the senior staff and oversee a team of engineers and developers, which could include outside consultants, to devise Web sites, apps and other tools for the former secretary of state and her staff to engage with supporters and voters."
Wi
sconsin  Gov. Scott Walker  responded to a recent dig against him by President Obama by saying Mr. Obama should spend more time trying to figure out how to work with other politicians and reiterating his criticism of ongoing negotiations over a deal on  Iran ’s nuclear program.
“This is a president who should spend more time trying to figure out how to work with governors and members of Congress instead of attacking them,”  Mr. Walker  said Wednesday evening on Fox News’ “Hannity” program.
Tags
E-Mail:
Vote!
Loading…
Which team would you like most to win the championship of its respective sport (i.e. Super Bowl, World Series, NCAA title)?
Green Bay Packers
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with host.madison.com account:
Username & Password Required!

