Delivered To Your INBOX
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
Email Address
Posted in: Celebrity News
Posted: April 4, 2015
Prank Phone Call Fail: Katy Perry Accidentally Leaks Phone Number, Miley Cyrus Shares Senator Tom Cotton’s Number
Katy Perry and Miley Cyrus sent Twitter in a tizzy this week after leaking phone numbers. Katy accidentally leaked her own phone number , while Miley willingly shared someone else’s number with her millions of Twitter followers. That must’ve caused thousands of prank phone calls across the country, on behalf of both singers.
Perry shared a photo of her dog Butters on Instagram with her 16.4 million followers. The photo included a caption referencing her BFF Rihanna’s new single “B**ch Better Have My Money.” Perry’s snapshot also included a clear view of her phone number, sending Katy Kats into panic mode. One of her fans tried to warn her about it, but it was too late. Perry’s photo invited thousands of prank phone calls from both fans and haters of the singer, according to the Music Times. She quickly removed the photo and had her phone number deactivated.
Meanwhile, Cyrus wanted her fans to “stir some s**t up” and flood Senator Tom Cotton’s office with prank phone calls. The senator became infamous for writing a controversial Iran open letter and for telling Wolff Blitzer, “In Iran, they hang you for the crime of being gay.” Cyrus, of course, was not happy about Cotton’s homophobic remarks, so she had her fans prank call him.
Miley tweeted , “Senator Cotton thinks gay community needs to get ‘perspective’ cuz ‘In Iran they hang you for the crime of being gay.”
The “Wrecking Ball” singer shared the Senator’s phone number with her 20 million followers. It’s unclear whether the senator’s office received a large amount of prank phone calls from the time that the tweet was posted.
Cyrus tweeted via Mediate, “Let’s stir some s**t up! Senator Cotton (202) ***-****!!!! Happy Hippies call & express why freedom is important to us & our country!”
Miley recently spoke to Time magazine about her thoughts on Indiana’s anti-gay bill . She also called supporters “dinosaurs” and added that “they are dying off.”
“They’re trying to make [the bill] look like it’s not discriminatory. It’s confusing for my fans, so I’m happy to [speak up about it].”
Miley isn’t letting down anytime soon. She refused to remove the senator’s phone number from her Twitter account. She also added that she would “love to talk” to Tom Cotton sometime about LGBT issues.
The Inquisitr previously reported that the singer has always been a supporter of LGBT rights . She also has been vocal about supporting Occupy Wall Street , President Obama, and the battle against Dominican Republic government over freedom of expression. She also performed a cover of Bob Dylan’s “You’re Going to Make Me Lonesome When You Go” for the Amnesty International album .
This isn’t the first time that Cyrus had a run in with prank phone calls or a massive phone number leak. A group named Hollywood Leaks revealed the singer’s phone number in 2011. Not only was Cyrus’ phone number leaked, but several photos from her personal phone were released on the internet. The singer was a lot more tamed then, so she was able to escape a potential nude photo leak. But the leak was enough for Miley Cyrus to change her phone number and keep her stuff on lock from here on out.
Comments
Get Social
Join Us!
Latest Stories
Featured Articles
Delivered To Your INBOX
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
Email Address

