LATEST
May 27, 2015
May 26, 2015
May 26, 2015
Home Science Bogus Study And Disregardful Publishing About Gay Unions Sparked Controversy
Bogus Study And Disregardful Publishing About Gay Unions Sparked Controversy
Image credit: WesternJornalism.com
A study on gay unions was published last December in the journal Science. Now, five months later, the driven author and the respected journal are facing accusations of fabricating data and careless publishing respectively, with a co-author pinned amidst the gunfire.
It started with a passionate graduate student at the University of California with the name of Michael LaCour, a political science major that truly wanted to undertake a study entitled “When contact changes minds: An experiment on transmission of support for gay equality.”
Along with the student was an expert in field experiments and a professor at Columbia University, Donald P. Green. Their partnership was perfect: a young, zealous visionary and a seasoned veteran in the field who can show him the technical ropes.
This, however, would result in a meltdown as the professor pushed for the study’s retraction due to LaCour failing to disclose the raw data.
“It’s a very delicate situation when a senior scholar makes a move to look at a junior scholar’s data set. This is his career, and if I reach in and grab it, it may seem like I’m boxing him out,” said Dr. Green referring to LaCour not cooperating with his request to post the raw data in the University of Michigan’s databank for protection and future use.
The veteran trusted his young pupil, an undoing that produced controversy in the scientific community. Dr. Green did ask Science to retract the study because of questionable data and it was the right move.
However, this again questions the credibility and screening process of the journal. Public mistrust seems to be overwhelming after this incident.
“It is simply unacceptable for science to continue with people publishing on data they do not share with others. Journals, funding agencies and universities must begin requiring that data be publicly available,” said Uri Simonsohn from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Simonsohn was also involved in a misconduct case with questionable data in a psychology study.
It was uncovered that reviewers mostly never focus on questioning or requesting for a study’s raw data. This sparked another controversy that’s leaning on reforming the journal’s methods of reviewing research papers.
Marcia McNutt, the editor-in-chief of Science has considered the request of Dr. Green that the study be retracted from the journal.
LaCour refused to be interviewed but indicated that he still stood by the findings of his study. He plans to become a professor at Princeton, a dream that will most likely derailed.
Whether this will be a personal beef with the ones involved or just a lapse in judgment, nobody will know for sure. What’s indisputable is that for all the knowledge that we want to seek, the fundamentals that we learned ages ago must not be forgotten or else that newfound knowledge would just be for naught.
SIMILAR ARTICLES
0
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Reporter Advocate is your news, entertainment, music & fashion website. We provide you with the latest breaking news and videos straight from the entertainment industry.
We are your all-access pass to all the A-List stars around the globe.

