Deal helps data-storage giant be a bigger cloud player
Bill Brett for The Boston Globe/File 2013
Virtustream’s top executive will report to Joe Tucci, chief executive of Hopkinton-based EMC Corp.
By Dina Bass and Nick Turner Bloomberg News 
May 27, 2015
SEATTLE — EMC Corp. has agreed to buy Virtustream Inc. for about $1.2 billion, letting clients of the storage-systems maker run products from Oracle Corp., Microsoft Corp., and SAP AG in the cloud.
When the deal closes, the Virtustream business will become EMC’s managed-cloud services division.
Virtustream’s chief executive, Rodney Rogers, will report to EMC’s top executive, Joe Tucci, the companies said in a statement Tuesday.
EMC, based in Hopkinton, Mass., has been helping its corporate customers move applications to and otherwise get the benefits of cloud computing, using products that were developed by the company and the software maker VMware Inc. EMC owns a controlling stake in VMware, a Palo Alto, Calif., company.
EMC needed Virtustream because VMware’s vCloud Air offerings are not yet able to fill the same need for large companies’ critical applications, Stephen Elliot, an analyst at IDC, said by e-mail.
“Many Fortune 1000 organizations are looking to move these workloads, provided the financial model makes sense and that the sense of control, security, and compliance are risk mitigated,” Elliot wrote. “While VMware would like to be here, they are not.”
Closely held Virtustream was founded in 2009 by Rogers and Kevin Reid, the company’s president and chief technology officer. The Bethesda, Md., company said its customers include Coca-Cola Co., Hess Corp., and Lexmark International Inc.
EMC’s expansion comes as it contends with weak demand for its expensive storage equipment by focusing on new markets.
EMC’s cloud expansion comes as the company contends with weak demand for its most expensive storage equipment by focusing on new products and markets like flash-memory-based machines. Next month, the company will make its ViPR software for controlling storage devices free through an open-source license.
EMC’s first-quarter earnings fell short of analysts’ estimates, while the company’s forecast missed Wall Street’s projections. Revenue rose 2.4 percent to $5.6 billion.
The Virtustream purchase, slated to be completed in the third quarter, is expected to start adding to EMC’s sales and profit next year.
“This broader hybrid cloud portfolio should enable EMC to expand its tentacles,” Daniel Ives and James Moore, analysts at FBR & Co., said in a note to investors. “Ultimately, while we like this move in the cloud, we believe the company will need more M&A to help find its next growth act as EMC’s core business remains very mature.”
Activist shareholder Elliott Management Corp. has pressured EMC to spin off VMware. Tuesday’s acquisition was further evidence that EMC does not plan to adopt that approach, Ives said by e-mail.
EMC’s shares fell 2 percent to $26.29. The stock had declined 9.8 percent this year through Friday, amid investor questions about the company’s strategy and a succession plan for Tucci.
VMware stock declined 1 percent to $86.84 on Tuesday.
Please enter a valid email address
Thank you for subscribing to Today's Headlines!
Enjoy your first free article
You can now read 5 free articles. Get unlimited access for just 99¢.
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Want each day's news headlines delivered fresh to your
inbox every morning? Just connect with us
in one of the following ways:
Facebook
Google
or
BostonGlobe.com will never post anything without asking.
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Read it all, now.
Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.
Get full access today for just 99¢
Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .
Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .
Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
High-quality journalism from the region’s largest newsroom
Convenient access across all of your devices
Today’s Headlines daily newsletter
Subscriber-only access to exclusive offers, events, contests, eBooks, and more
Less than 25¢ a week
GET FULL ACCESS NOW
GET FULL ACCESS NOW

