EMC to Leverage Benefits of Virtustream’s xStream
Submitted by Paul Gardner on Wed, 05/27/2015 - 02:15
In a transaction, which is expected to close by September this year, storage systems provider EMC, is on the lookout to buy privately held Virtustream software provider for about US $1.2 billion, in an attempt to enlarge its scope of cloud management tools.
EMC Corporation, or EMC is an American multinational corporation that offers data storage, information security, virtualization, analytics, cloud computing and other products and services that enable businesses to store, manage, protect, and analyze data. EMC's target markets include large companies and small and medium-sized businesses across various vertical markets.
Based in Bethesda, Maryland, Virtustream is a provider of cloud computing management software, infrastructure as a service and managed services to enterprises, governments and service providers. Virtustream's software can be used to manage complex enterprise applications, such as SAP's S/4HANA, so they can be run effectively on hosted infrastructure services. It would, therefore, aid customers moving to cloud-based services as an alternative to running data centers in-house.
After companies like Coca-Cola, food processor Heinz, oil company Hess, and motorcycle company Kawasaki have successfully used Virtustream's xStream technology, EMC too has wished to follow suit. xStream provides a platform for companies to set up multiparty and private infrastructure cloud deployments with full service level agreements (SLAs) designed to ensure quality of service. EMC has already deployed the technology in its virtualization software provider VMware.
Now, EMC aims to incorporate xStream into its own Federation Enterprise Hybrid Cloud Solution, a package that provides a way for organizations to build hybrid clouds, wherein workloads run both in-house and on public clouds. The xStream software will allow customers to run all of their applications in the cloud. Rodney Rogers, the CEO of Virtustream, would lead the new business cloud services unit.
Opt-out instructions are included in each e-mail.
Navigation
Automobile Sector Report

