Cliven Bundy
Rancher Cliven Bundy, center, meets with supporters during an event Friday, April 10, 2015, in Bunkerville, Nev. Bundy is holding the event to celebrate the one year anniversary since the Bureau of Land Management's failed attempt to collect his cattle. (AP Photo/John Locher)
........................  ADVERTISEMENT ......................
LAS VEGAS — A year since a tense standoff between a Nevada rancher’s armed supporters and federal land managers, Cliven Bundy’s cattle still roam public lands, more than $1.1 million worth of grazing fees have yet to be paid, and Bundy has become a tea party celebrity in the West.
How to mark the anniversary? Have a party near the site where Bundy took what he calls a constitutional stand against federal authority on state land.
“We’re celebrating freedom,” family matriarch Carol Bundy said Friday as campers arrived in motor homes and tents for a three-day event on and around the Bundy melon farm and cattle ranch outside Bunkerville.
American flags and other banners fluttered from poles at a site that became a speakers’ platform during the days before and after the standoff last year.
Cliven Bundy made the 80-mile trip to Las Vegas to fetch 2,000 steak sandwich buns and other provisions.
“We want to make a statement that we’re still here, ranching on Nevada land,” Bundy said by telephone during the return trip. “The federal government hasn’t made any kind of moves.”
Bundy has unfinished business with the federal Bureau of Land Management — and perhaps with the FBI, Las Vegas police and other agencies — following the April 12, 2014, standoff.
It pitted federal BLM police against heavily armed states’ rights advocates who had converged on the Bundy ranch to stop a roundup of Bundy cattle from public rangeland. Participants said tension was so high that a car backfire could have sparked a shootout that would have killed and injured dozens of people.
The BLM backed off, citing safety concerns. It released the 380 cattle that had been collected, gave up the weeklong roundup and lifted a closure of a range half the size of Delaware.
Bureau spokeswoman Celia Boddington said Friday that the agency “remains resolute” in its goal to resolve the Bundy cattle dispute administratively and judicially.
Bundy says he doesn’t recognize federal authority on land that his Mormon family settled in the late 1870s. He wants state and local control, with policing handled by the county sheriff.
He’s taken the fight to the statehouse, urging like-minded lawmakers in Nevada, Alaska, Arizona, Utah and several other Western states to pass laws to seize control of vast tracts of federal land.
Posted in Z-no-digital on Saturday, April 11, 2015 4:37 pm.
Similar Stories
Richmond, VA 23219
Life
News
Outdoors
Sports
Travel
Viewpoints/Opinion
Log in to read Richmond.com
Log in to read an unlimited number of articles each month on Richmond.com, and to read The Times-Dispatch e-edition. To log in, enter the e-mail address and password listed on your All Access account. Trying to pay a bill, place a vacation stop or manage your account? Click here .
Haven’t signed up for All Access yet? Get started here…
Screen Name or Email

