 
Mon, 25 May 2015  8:21 PM ET
Patriots quarterback Tom Brady 's appeal won't be heard by Wednesday, the Associated Press reported, citing sources.
Brady is appealing his four-game suspension as a result of the investigation into deflated footballs prior to the AFC Championship Game.
The NFL collective bargaining agreement requires appeals to be heard within 10 days, a window that expires on Wednesday. As of Monday, no hearing had been scheduled.
Appeals can be heard after the 10-day window, if the league and players union agree to extend the deadline, which is likely to occur in the Brady case.
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
This surgery will take place 10 days after he was diagnosed with Papillary Type 2 cancer. 
"He’s a battler all the way," Seahawks coach Pete Carroll said. "He’s been up against it, too. He’s fought some difficult fights, and he’s fighting another one - maybe the fight of a young man’s life.
"We’ll be there with him and hope to pull him through.”
Seahawks' Lemuel Jeanpierre with first team, not Patrick Lewis
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(5/26/2015) The Seahawks worked in a new first-team center on Tuesday and it wasn't the one projected to fill Max Unger's vacant spot.
According to ESPN.com, Lemuel Jeanpierre worked with the first team during Tuesday's OTA practice. Patrick Lewis , who many projected to be the front-runner for the job, worked in as Jeanpierre's backup.
After practice, coach Pete Carroll said Jeanpierre earned the opportunity to begin OTAs as the first-team center.
Jeanpierre has been with the Seahawks since 2011 and Lewis joined the squad a year ago. Jeanpierre has 11 career starts and Lewis has four, all of which happened with Seattle in 2014.  
Falcons RB Devonta Freeman opens OTAs as starter
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(5/26/2015) The Falcons opened OTAs with running back Devonta Freeman getting the nod with the first team, according to ESPN.com . 
Freeman is entering his second year in the NFL, though there is a lot of buzz surrounding rookie draft choice Tevin Coleman out of Indiana. Though Freeman is the technical starter for now, it should be an open competition between these two and Antone Smith this August. 
Chiefs OLB Justin Houston a no-show to OTAs
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(5/26/2015) Chiefs outside linebacker Justin Houston did not show up to Tuesday's organized team activity practice, according to the Kansas City Star. 
Houston is reportedly seeking a long-term deal and would prefer not to sign the franchise tender the Chiefs are offering. The Chiefs placed a non-exclusive franchise tag on Houston earlier this offseason. 
The Chiefs have until July 15 to work out a long-term deal with the star outside linebacker. If they don't, teams could offer Houston deals with the Chiefs having the right to match. And if the Chiefs chose not to match, they would receive two first-round picks from the team signing Houston away. 
Houston totaled 22 sacks a year ago. Teammate Tamba Hali said that Houston has been working out and would like to practice with the Chiefs if it was possible. 
“Every two or three weeks, we talk,” Hali said. “He's working, he's working his tail off. Like any player, he wants to be here. But we know our league is a business, and we've got to allow that process to work itself out. He wants to be here. He's missing it.”
Titans RB Shonn Greene absent from OTAs
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
"Obviously we'd like to have him here," Titans coach Ken Whisenhunt said. "But he's a veteran. He knows how to get himself prepared."
Greene told the Titans, Whisenhunt said, that he's unable to attend at the moment because he is the caretaker of a child. Greene ran for 392 yards and two touchdowns during the 2014 season. 
Eagles G Evan Mathis doesn't show up to OTAs
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
Mathis has received permission to seek a trade though nothing has materialized. After failing to report to OTAs a year ago, Mathis showed up to the Eagles facility on time. 
Mathis is entering his 11th NFL season and fifth with the Eagles. 
Browns RB Isaiah Crowell opens OTAs as starter
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(5/26/2015) Isaiah Crowell opened Tuesday's OTA practice as the Browns' starting running back , according to ESPNCleveland.com. 
Crowell, an undrafted free-agent a year ago, and Terrance West split first-team reps. Crowell totaled 607 yards and eight touchdowns while West ran for 673 yards and four. Regardless of who the starter is, the Browns are likely to use a rotation at running back. 
Chiefs OLB Tamba Hali underwent minor knee procedure
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(5/26/2015) Chiefs outside linebacker Tamba Hali said he had a minor procedure performed on his knee this offseason, according to the Kansas City Star. 
Hali said the procedure was done to clean out some loose cartilage. 
It's not anything that'e expected to keep Hali off of the field. A year ago, Hali recorded 59 tackles and six sacks. 
Raiders QB Derek Carr (finger) has yet to start throwing
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
Carr has an injured right ring finger that he's not contemplating surgery for. He was able to take snaps and make pitches during practice. Though he's missing the reps now, Carr is expected to be back by the start of training camp. 
Seahawks CB Richard Sherman practices fully on Tuesday
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(5/26/2015) Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman did not have any limitations during Tuesday's OTA practice. 
According to the Seattle Times, Sherman, who suffered an elbow injury during this past postseason, was able to practice fully . 
There was a chance Sherman would need Tommy John surgery, though he decided to let the injury heal on its own. In 2014, Sherman recorded 57 tackles and four interceptions. 
 

