Clubhouse Insider Boston Red Sox News
Red Sox' offense falls flat again in 2-1 loss to Twins
Wednesday, May 27, 2015
MINNEAPOLIS -- Only someone with bats in their belfry would doubt the Red Sox could get their bats going against a pitcher like Mike Pelfrey.
The fact that they didn't is enough to make a manager crazy.
By now, John Farrell must be well on his way.
The Sox manager shuffled the lineup -- again -- before Tuesday night's rain-delayed game here against the Minnesota Twins, flip-flopping switch-hitting Pablo Sandoval with slumping slugger David Ortiz in the No. 3 and 5 spots, not unlike his top-of-the-order maneuvering of Dustin Pedroia and Mookie Betts or his nudging of Xander Bogaerts into the middle of the lineup last weekend.
But like almost everything Farrell has tried, it didn't make much of a difference, as the Sox mustered all of seven hits against Pelfrey and two relievers in a flat, 2-1 loss to the shockingly upstart Twins.
And so, after their mini, two-game uprising against the Los Angeles Angels last weekend at Fenway Park, the Sox have scored a total of three runs in back-to-back losses to the Twins and fallen back to four games under .500.
Maddening, isn't it?
Once again, the Sox wasted a strong start, this time from Clay Buchholz, who gave up two runs in the first inning and none thereafter. And once again, the offense fell eerily silent against a pitcher who has had his problems.
Twins right-hander Ricky Nolasco entered Monday's Memorial Day matinee with a 6.00 ERA, but managed to retire 15 consecutive Red Sox hitters at one point in a 7-2 victory.
Pelfrey missed most of last season after undergoing elbow surgery. In 2013, he posted a 5.19 ERA in 29 starts for Minnesota. And although he has been largely effective this year, he was roughed up only two starts ago by the Detroit Tigers and lasted only 3-1/3 innings May 3 against the Chicago White Sox.
But between the third and seventh innings, Pelfrey retired 14-of-17 batters, No. 9-hitting backup catcher Sandy Leon providing the only hits, both singles.
It wasn't until Pelfrey was lifted after the seventh inning that the Sox finally mounted an honest-to-goodness rally. With two outs, Pedroia singled, Betts worked a walk and Sandoval reached on an infield single after the Twins summoned closer Glen Perkins. But cleanup-hitting Hanley Ramirez, who has exactly one RBI in May, lined out to right field, killing the rally.
Ortiz, batting .222 with only six homers and a .386 slugging percentage that is lower than every Red Sox regular save rookie catcher Blake Swihart and recently recalled right fielder Rusny Castillo, said before the game that he has been swinging at “bastard pitches” rather than getting himself out. He grounded out weakly to open a ninth inning in which Perkins set the Sox down in order.
The Sox' lone run came in the second inning when Twins left fielder Eduardo Escobar got turned around on Ortiz' opposite-field double and when-you're-hot-you're-hot first baseman Mike Napoli dunked an RBI single into shallow center field.
And that was the extent of the offense.
Buchholz settled down nicely after a first inning in which he gave up a leadoff double to Brian Dozier and back-to-back two-out RBI doubles to Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki.
But when a lineup that was supposed to pummel pitchers like Pelfrey continues to shoot blanks, one bad inning is all it takes to sink the Red Sox, who are capsizing before our very eyes.
Twitter: @ScottLauber
Welcome to our new commenting system
Welcome to our new Facebook commenting system. Our goal is to create a meaningful environment where it is simple to comment on our pages and, if you'd like, share that comment with your friends.
© Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.


Clay Buchholz pitches well, but Red Sox fall to Twins
Jesse Johnson/USA Today
Red Sox starter Clay Buchholz delivers in the first inning. He allowed only two runs in 7 1/3 innings vs. the Twins.
May 27, 2015
MINNEAPOLIS — Clay Buchholz allowed two runs in the first inning against the Minnesota Twins on Tuesday night then did all he could to give the Red Sox a chance to win the game. But it was too late.
Another lineup change didn’t work as the Sox were beaten, 2-1. For the third time in their last seven games, the Sox allowed three or fewer runs and lost.
Buchholz allowed two runs over 7⅓ innings but was beaten by Mike Pelfrey with the assistance of two relievers.
The Red Sox, 21-25, have lost five of their last seven games. But in the weak American League East, they are only three games out of first.
For Buchholz (2-6), it was more frustration. He has allowed five earned runs in his last three starts and the Sox have scored three runs in those games. For the season, the Sox are 2-8 in games he has started.
Buchholz has a 2.48 earned run average in his last four starts, dropping his season ERA from 6.03 to 4.33.
The Twins have won four straight, six of seven, and improved to 17-6 this month.
The start of the game was delayed by rain for one hour and 21 minutes. When it finally got going, Buchholz had a tough time in the first inning.
Brian Dozier led off with a double to left field before Torii Hunter drew a walk. Buchholz fell behind Joe Mauer but got him to roll into a double play.
With Dozier on third base, Buchholz could not end the inning. Trevor Plouffe, who had a three-run home run off Joe Kelly on Monday, doubled down the line in right field. Kurt Suzuki then doubled to right field to make it 2-0.
Buchholz has allowed first-inning runs in four of his 10 starts, 13 runs in all.
Over the next six innings, Buchholz allowed three hits and held the Twins down. Their only threat came in the fourth inning. But with the bases loaded,  Buchholz got Aaron Hicks on a double play groundball to short.
The Sox scored in the second inning. With one out, slumping designated hitter David Ortiz doubled to left field to snap an 0-for-15 streak. Ortiz was dropped to fifth in the batting order for the first time since 2012.
Eduardo Escobar, usually an infielder, misplayed the ball, although Ortiz hit it well.
Mike Napoli, who before the game was named the American League player of the week, followed with a shallow pop-up to center field that fell in for a single. Ortiz read the ball off the bat, got a good jump off second, and scored without a throw being made.
The Sox did not advance another runner into scoring position against Mike Pelfrey. Sandy Leon led off the third inning with a single before three fly balls ended the inning. Leon then singled with one out in the fifth inning before Dustin Pedroia grounded into a double play.
Pelfrey retired the final seven Red Sox he faced. He allowed five hits, walked one, and struck out four to lower his ERA to 2.77. It was only the second time in his career the righthander had faced the Red Sox, the first time coming in 2009 when he was with the Mets.
Blaine Boyer started the eighth inning and got two outs. Pedroia singled and Mookie Betts drew a walk. The Twins had lefthanded closer Glen Perkins ready and they went to him against Pablo Sandoval.
Sandoval, who is 2 for 41 batting righthanded, went up lefthanded and reached on an infield single up the middle to load the bases.
Hanley Ramirez had a chance but flied to right field. He has one RBI this month.
Peter Abraham can be reached at pabraham@globe.com . Follow him on Twitter @PeteAbe .
Please enter a valid email address
Thank you for subscribing to Today's Headlines!
Enjoy your first free article
You can now read 5 free articles. Get unlimited access for just 99¢.
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Want each day's news headlines delivered fresh to your
inbox every morning? Just connect with us
in one of the following ways:
Facebook
Google
or
BostonGlobe.com will never post anything without asking.
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Read it all, now.
Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.
Get full access today for just 99¢
Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .
Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .
Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
High-quality journalism from the region’s largest newsroom
Convenient access across all of your devices
Today’s Headlines daily newsletter
Subscriber-only access to exclusive offers, events, contests, eBooks, and more
Less than 25¢ a week
GET FULL ACCESS NOW
GET FULL ACCESS NOW

