Clubhouse Insider Boston Red Sox News
Red Sox' offense falls flat again in 2-1 loss to Twins
Wednesday, May 27, 2015
MINNEAPOLIS -- Only someone with bats in their belfry would doubt the Red Sox could get their bats going against a pitcher like Mike Pelfrey.
The fact that they didn't is enough to make a manager crazy.
By now, John Farrell must be well on his way.
The Sox manager shuffled the lineup -- again -- before Tuesday night's rain-delayed game here against the Minnesota Twins, flip-flopping switch-hitting Pablo Sandoval with slumping slugger David Ortiz in the No. 3 and 5 spots, not unlike his top-of-the-order maneuvering of Dustin Pedroia and Mookie Betts or his nudging of Xander Bogaerts into the middle of the lineup last weekend.
But like almost everything Farrell has tried, it didn't make much of a difference, as the Sox mustered all of seven hits against Pelfrey and two relievers in a flat, 2-1 loss to the shockingly upstart Twins.
And so, after their mini, two-game uprising against the Los Angeles Angels last weekend at Fenway Park, the Sox have scored a total of three runs in back-to-back losses to the Twins and fallen back to four games under .500.
Maddening, isn't it?
Once again, the Sox wasted a strong start, this time from Clay Buchholz, who gave up two runs in the first inning and none thereafter. And once again, the offense fell eerily silent against a pitcher who has had his problems.
Twins right-hander Ricky Nolasco entered Monday's Memorial Day matinee with a 6.00 ERA, but managed to retire 15 consecutive Red Sox hitters at one point in a 7-2 victory.
Pelfrey missed most of last season after undergoing elbow surgery. In 2013, he posted a 5.19 ERA in 29 starts for Minnesota. And although he has been largely effective this year, he was roughed up only two starts ago by the Detroit Tigers and lasted only 3-1/3 innings May 3 against the Chicago White Sox.
But between the third and seventh innings, Pelfrey retired 14-of-17 batters, No. 9-hitting backup catcher Sandy Leon providing the only hits, both singles.
It wasn't until Pelfrey was lifted after the seventh inning that the Sox finally mounted an honest-to-goodness rally. With two outs, Pedroia singled, Betts worked a walk and Sandoval reached on an infield single after the Twins summoned closer Glen Perkins. But cleanup-hitting Hanley Ramirez, who has exactly one RBI in May, lined out to right field, killing the rally.
Ortiz, batting .222 with only six homers and a .386 slugging percentage that is lower than every Red Sox regular save rookie catcher Blake Swihart and recently recalled right fielder Rusny Castillo, said before the game that he has been swinging at “bastard pitches” rather than getting himself out. He grounded out weakly to open a ninth inning in which Perkins set the Sox down in order.
The Sox' lone run came in the second inning when Twins left fielder Eduardo Escobar got turned around on Ortiz' opposite-field double and when-you're-hot-you're-hot first baseman Mike Napoli dunked an RBI single into shallow center field.
And that was the extent of the offense.
Buchholz settled down nicely after a first inning in which he gave up a leadoff double to Brian Dozier and back-to-back two-out RBI doubles to Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki.
But when a lineup that was supposed to pummel pitchers like Pelfrey continues to shoot blanks, one bad inning is all it takes to sink the Red Sox, who are capsizing before our very eyes.
Twitter: @ScottLauber
Welcome to our new commenting system
Welcome to our new Facebook commenting system. Our goal is to create a meaningful environment where it is simple to comment on our pages and, if you'd like, share that comment with your friends.
© Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.


Middays with MFB
Dale & Holley  
Weekend Shows  
Phone: 617-779-7937    Text: 37937   
Latest Columns
Latest Columns
Featuring the latest Red Sox, Celtics, Patriots, and Bruins videos
Twitter
For an official list of WEEI radio hosts and writers on twitter, click here .
Follow the station @WEEI
Like WEEI, and the shows, on facebook by clicking here .
05.27.15 at 12:07 am ET
The Red Sox remain stuck in the mud.
While they make progress in getting out, they then seemingly fall right back in.
After winning the final two games over the weekend against the Angels, the Red Sox have lost their first two games of a seven-game road trip, falling to the Twins 2-1 Tuesday night in Minneapolis. The was delayed at the start by 81 minutes due to rain.
Their latest defeat came at the hands of Twins right-hander Mike Pelfrey, who entered with a career ERA just under 4.50. Pelfrey limited the Red Sox to one run on five hits over seven innings. Between the third and seventh inning, he limited the Red Sox to only two hits.
The visitors had a chance to tie, or take the lead in the eighth inning with the bases loaded and two outs for Hanley Ramirez , but the left fielder flew out to right field to end the threat. Over the first 24 games in May, the Red Sox are averaging just 2.75 runs per game.
Mike Napoli drove in the Red Sox’ only run of the game, a single up the middle in the second inning.
Red Sox starter Clay Buchholz continued his season-long trend of starting slow, but settling in. After allowing two first inning runs, and not having his best overall stuff, Buchholz went 7 1/3 innings, allowing two runs on seven hits, while walking one and striking out four. Over his last four starts his ERA is 2.17, but the Red Sox are 1-3 in those games.
Buchholz continues to struggle in the first inning, as he allowed two runs once again. For the season he’s allowed 13 first inning runs in 10 starts. It hasn’t just been Buchholz, the Red Sox as a team struggle in the first inning, being outscored 35-14 in the opening frame.
SWENSON GRANITE WORKS ROCK SOLID PERFORMER OF THE GAME: Buchholz. The right-hander delivered his fourth straight quality start, but the offense couldn’t help him out as his record dropped to 2-6. He’s thrown three straight starts of at least seven innings. Vote on the Rock Solid Performer of the week and enter to win a VIP Boston Baseball Experience at weei.com/rocksolid .
Here is what went wrong (and right) in the Red Sox’ loss:
WHAT WENT WRONG
— Dustin Pedroia had a tough night both in the field and at the plate. Batting leadoff for the fourth straight game, the second baseman went 1-for-4, including hitting into a double play. He also made his fourth error of the season in the field — this comes after having just two all of last year.
— Sliding up into the No. 4 spot in the order, Ramirez went 0-for-4, including flying out with the tying run on third base in the eighth inning. Since missing a few games with a shoulder injury in late April, he’s hitting just .206 and having trouble hitting for power from his pull side.
— Xander Bogaerts and Rusney Castillo combined to go 0-for-7 in the No. 7 and No. 8 spots. Bogaerts also tried to bunt with no one on and two outs in the seventh inning.
WHAT WENT RIGHT
— David Ortiz snapped an 0-for-16 skid with a double in the second inning. The designated hitter finished the night 1-for-4, after being dropped to fifth in the order.
— Sandy Leon went 2-for-3. He came into the came with only two hits the entire month of May.
— Although Pablo Sandoval went 1-for-4 in the No. 3 spot, his only hit came left-on-left in the eighth inning against closer Glen Perkins. It’s the second straight day he’s got a hit against a lefty, both coming when hitting from the right side.
— Castillo made two web gem catches in right field.

