Clubhouse Insider Boston Red Sox News
Red Sox' offense falls flat again in 2-1 loss to Twins
Wednesday, May 27, 2015
MINNEAPOLIS -- Only someone with bats in their belfry would doubt the Red Sox could get their bats going against a pitcher like Mike Pelfrey.
The fact that they didn't is enough to make a manager crazy.
By now, John Farrell must be well on his way.
The Sox manager shuffled the lineup -- again -- before Tuesday night's rain-delayed game here against the Minnesota Twins, flip-flopping switch-hitting Pablo Sandoval with slumping slugger David Ortiz in the No. 3 and 5 spots, not unlike his top-of-the-order maneuvering of Dustin Pedroia and Mookie Betts or his nudging of Xander Bogaerts into the middle of the lineup last weekend.
But like almost everything Farrell has tried, it didn't make much of a difference, as the Sox mustered all of seven hits against Pelfrey and two relievers in a flat, 2-1 loss to the shockingly upstart Twins.
And so, after their mini, two-game uprising against the Los Angeles Angels last weekend at Fenway Park, the Sox have scored a total of three runs in back-to-back losses to the Twins and fallen back to four games under .500.
Maddening, isn't it?
Once again, the Sox wasted a strong start, this time from Clay Buchholz, who gave up two runs in the first inning and none thereafter. And once again, the offense fell eerily silent against a pitcher who has had his problems.
Twins right-hander Ricky Nolasco entered Monday's Memorial Day matinee with a 6.00 ERA, but managed to retire 15 consecutive Red Sox hitters at one point in a 7-2 victory.
Pelfrey missed most of last season after undergoing elbow surgery. In 2013, he posted a 5.19 ERA in 29 starts for Minnesota. And although he has been largely effective this year, he was roughed up only two starts ago by the Detroit Tigers and lasted only 3-1/3 innings May 3 against the Chicago White Sox.
But between the third and seventh innings, Pelfrey retired 14-of-17 batters, No. 9-hitting backup catcher Sandy Leon providing the only hits, both singles.
It wasn't until Pelfrey was lifted after the seventh inning that the Sox finally mounted an honest-to-goodness rally. With two outs, Pedroia singled, Betts worked a walk and Sandoval reached on an infield single after the Twins summoned closer Glen Perkins. But cleanup-hitting Hanley Ramirez, who has exactly one RBI in May, lined out to right field, killing the rally.
Ortiz, batting .222 with only six homers and a .386 slugging percentage that is lower than every Red Sox regular save rookie catcher Blake Swihart and recently recalled right fielder Rusny Castillo, said before the game that he has been swinging at “bastard pitches” rather than getting himself out. He grounded out weakly to open a ninth inning in which Perkins set the Sox down in order.
The Sox' lone run came in the second inning when Twins left fielder Eduardo Escobar got turned around on Ortiz' opposite-field double and when-you're-hot-you're-hot first baseman Mike Napoli dunked an RBI single into shallow center field.
And that was the extent of the offense.
Buchholz settled down nicely after a first inning in which he gave up a leadoff double to Brian Dozier and back-to-back two-out RBI doubles to Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki.
But when a lineup that was supposed to pummel pitchers like Pelfrey continues to shoot blanks, one bad inning is all it takes to sink the Red Sox, who are capsizing before our very eyes.
Twitter: @ScottLauber
Welcome to our new commenting system
Welcome to our new Facebook commenting system. Our goal is to create a meaningful environment where it is simple to comment on our pages and, if you'd like, share that comment with your friends.
© Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.

