{* socialRegistration_jpCommsOptIn *}
By registering you are agreeing to the Terms and Conditions of the website.
{* socialRegistration_captcha *}
You can access your profile and newsletter preferences here
Registration
Please fill in the remaining fields below to complete your registration.
{* #registrationForm *}
{* traditionalRegistration_jpCommsOptIn *}
By registering you are agreeing to the Terms and Conditions of the website.
{* socialRegistration_captcha *}
Forgotten your password?
Enter your email and we'll send you a link to reset your password.
{* #forgotPasswordForm *}
{* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *}
{* /forgotPasswordForm *}
Reset Your Password
We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
Reset your password
We didn't recognise that password reset code. Enter your email address to get a new one.
{* #resetPasswordForm *}
{* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *}
{* forgotPassword_sendButton *}
{* /resetPasswordForm *}
Reset your password
We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
{* #tradAuthenticateMergeForm *}
Newsletter Preferences
Congratulations, you're now registered! Let us know what news and updates you want to hear about and we'll send them straight to your inbox.
Where do you live?
Enter your postcode so we can keep you up-to-date with the latest local news and exciting deals.
Please provide a valid UK postcode
(letters and numbers only)
It looks like you're already registered.
is already registered with .     You will be able to use the same account on .     Alternatively, you can create a new account with another email address.
Validating
Thank you for verifying your email address.
Verification link has expired, please sign in and click on resend verification email from your profile page.
Verification link has expired, please click on resend verification email from your profile page.
06:00 Wednesday 27 May 2015
IT has been a week since my struggle with depression was a feature in The Yorkshire Post. After many years of hiding it from the world, I decided to be open and honest about a problem that I have had in my life since I was beaten up as a police officer.
For many years, I had hidden my condition from the world for fear of being branded as mad, weird or not much fun to be around. There was a substantial amount of pride involved and also the fear of being stigmatised as mentally ill.
Yet, in the last week, I have found an amazing amount of support from friends and strangers. My email inbox was overflowing with thanks and well wishes. I was surprised by how many people had now decided to “come out” themselves after hearing my story.
I was also surprised to find out that there may be in excess of 4,000 people who suffer like me in the east of the county. From what I hear, my story was pretty common.
I had been misdiagnosed in the early days of my illness and it took four years for me to have any real treatment. I have managed to survive without medication and even in the darkest times resorted to long walks and comedy shows to keep the “black dog” at bay.
What has really helped me was having a therapist. A person who I can be totally honest with and don’t have to be worried about what they think. I can now readily admit that I am the one in three people in this country with some kind of mental health condition.
My post-traumatic stress disorder is well under control and the light burns brightly at the end of the tunnel. It has taken 20 years for me to get proper therapy. I remember once being told to go away and read up about my condition on the internet and that might help – it certainly didn’t.
So why is the Tory Government paying lip service to mental health issues and indeed will cut the spending in this area by 2018?
Figures from five-year plans submitted by 41 mental health trusts show that funding for both adults and children’s services in 2014-15 was £5.86bn, but by 2018-19 that is expected to be £5.74bn – an eight per cent cut once inflation is taken into account.
It was surprising that the only political party talking openly about mental health was the Lib Dems. Sadly, owing to their catastrophic failure at the ballot box, none of their plans will ever see the light of day.
Quite rightly, they wanted £400m to help people with mental health problems. This included getting the right support early on, talking or psychological therapies as well as introducing waiting limits. Sufferers would have known for the first time how long they would have to wait for treatment.
The Lib Dems went even further and wanted to make sure that no-one experiencing a mental health crisis is ever turned away from services. They also wanted to give people the same choice for their mental healthcare as they have for their physical health.
The terrifying thing for any one of the two million people with mental health issues is that the Tories have left Jeremy Hunt as Health Secretary. Hunt is infamous for saying he couldn’t understand how Tony Blair’s communications supremo Alastair Campbell could suffer from depression as he had such a good life.
To me this shows the man is a fool. Without the Lib Dems to temper the spending cuts on mental health, the situation looks dire.
Even under the coalition, the number of mental health in-patient beds dropped by 12 per cent since 2011. We will see under this Government that mental health issues are causing poor economic progress and productivity.
Mental health costs the UK economy £105bn per year. Sickness absence and people under-performing due to stress add another £23bn to that figure. Surely those amounts alone should be enough for David Cameron to take heed and spend more, and not less, on this type of care when the Queen’s Speech is set out today?
People with mental health issues cannot just be discarded in the hope they will go away and not burden the NHS. The trouble is that the problems grow and grow as the government cuts funding.
Sadly, this really is a matter of life and death. Having been on the verge of ending my own life, because I could not see a future I know this to be true. How many people will have to needlessly die before government policy is changed?
Perhaps Cameron could start by appointing people sympathetic to challenges of mental health and not those who clearly show a deep lack of insight.
 
More from News
Your Name
Your message
Please enter a message
We may provide your Email/IP Address to Law Enforcement Agencies if you misuse this facility
No 1 Leeds
26 Whitehall Road
© 2015 Johnston Publishing Ltd.
This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .
If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the IPSO by clicking here .
Yorkshire Post provides news, events and sport features from the Yorkshire area. For the best up to date information relating to Yorkshire and the surrounding areas visit us at Yorkshire Post regularly or bookmark this page.
For you to enjoy all the features of this website Yorkshire Post requires permission to use cookies.
Allow Cookies
Can I opt out of receiving Cookies?
About our Cookies
Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.
This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.
Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.
However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.
The types of cookies we, our ad network and technology partners use are listed below:
Revenue Science ►
A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.
Google Ads ►
Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.
Digital Analytics ►
This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.
Dart for Publishers ►
This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.
ComScore ►
ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.
Local Targeting ►
Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.
Grapeshot ►
We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.
Subscriptions Online ►
Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.
Add This ►
Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
3rd Party Cookies ►

