PRECIOUS-Gold holds near 2-week low after worst day since April
SINGAPORE, May 27 Gold held near a two-week trough early on Wednesday after sliding almost 2 percent in the previous session as strong U.S. data suggested the Federal Reserve may be on course to raise interest rates this year.     The dollar also held on to broad gains following a rally that pushed bullion to its steepest single-day fall since April 30.          FUNDAMENTALS     * Spot gold was little changed at $1,188.20 an ounce by 0040 GMT. It dropped to $1,185.35 on Tuesday, its weakest since May 12.     * U.S. gold was also nearly flat at $1,187.60 an ounce.     * A gauge of U.S. business investment spending plans rose solidly for a second straight month in April and consumer confidence perked up this month, adding to signs economic growth was picking up after sputtering in the first quarter. U.S. new home sales also climbed last month.      * The strong U.S. data were in line with Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen's upbeat comments last week that indicated the U.S. central bank is poised to raise interest rates later this year.     * Yellen's comments had fueled the dollar's rally to an eight-year high versus the yen and it also rose against the euro, making dollar-denominated assets such as gold more costly for buyers using other currencies.     * U.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer said a U.S. rate hike may trigger bouts of volatility in global financial markets.      * Top gold miner Barrick Gold Corp  has forged a strategic tie-up with Zijin Mining Group Co  and agreed to sell the Chinese miner a stake in a mine in Papua New Guinea as a first step toward further collaboration.       * Russia is increasing its gold holdings because gold is a reserve asset that is free from legal and political risks, a senior central banker said.      * For the top stories on metals and other news, click  or           MARKET NEWS     * Asian stocks slipped and the dollar stayed strong on growing expectations of a U.S. rate hike this year and concerns that financial woes in Europe could engulf Spain in addition to Greece.            DATA AHEAD (GMT)      0600  Germany       GfK consumer sentiment           Jun      0645  France        Consumer confidence              May       Precious metals prices 0040 GMT   Metal             Last    Change  Pct chg  YTD pct chg       Spot Gold        1188.20    1.65   +0.14      0.39   Spot Silver        16.71    0.00   +0.00      6.70   Spot Platinum    1124.00    1.00   +0.09     -6.33   Spot Palladium    779.98    2.98   +0.38     -1.60   COMEX GOLD JUN5  1187.60    0.70   +0.06      0.30            COMEX SILVER JUL5  16.75    0.00   -0.01      7.35             Euro/Dollar       1.0880   Dollar/Yen        123.01     COMEX gold and silver contracts show the most active months    (Reporting by Manolo Serapio Jr.; Editing by Richard Pullin )
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


Janet Yellen plans on skipping this year’s Jackson Hole conference
The Fed said that Yellen plans on skipping this year’s gathering of the world’s central bankers at Jackson Hole
US Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen. Photo: Reuters
Washington: It turns out that being the first woman to head the Federal Reserve is not the only tradition Janet Yellen is breaking. The Fed said Tuesday that she plans on skipping this year’s gathering of the world’s central bankers at Jackson Hole, Wyoming.
In a statement, the Fed said Yellen will participate in the August policy symposium from time to time in future years as part her public speaking schedule. It did not say, however, why she was skipping it this year.
This year’s conference is scheduled to be held three weeks before the Fed’s September meeting, a date which many private economists have pegged as the most likely time for the central bank to start raising a key interest rate.
The faithful attendance of Yellen’s three predecessors — Paul Volcker, Alan Greenspan and Ben Bernanke — made the conference sponsored by the Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank a widely sought invitation by central bankers from around the globe. Kansas City Fed officials said they would have no comment on Yellen’s decision.
The Fed statement said that Yellen seeks to participate in a “public speaking schedule that includes a wide variety of venues and events.”
Since taking over as Fed chair last year, Yellen has sought to broaden the Fed’s outreach beyond the economists and banking executives who make up many Fed audiences. She has delivered speeches to community development organizations and toured employment centers to highlight efforts to help the millions of people who lost jobs during the Great Recession.
Greenspan never missed a Jackson Hole conference during his nearly two decades as Fed chairman and Bernanke attended all but one of the eight conferences held while he was chairman.
Kansas City Fed officials moved the conference to Jackson Hole in 1982 in a successful effort to get Volcker, an ardent fly-fisherman, to attend and thus attract other central bank officials. Grand Teton National Park, where the conference is held, is famous for its trout streams.

