Top Sport
An eye-opening exhibition on the civil rights movement has opened in Newcastle.
Journey to Justice opened in the city’s Discovery Museum on Saturday - the anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King.
The exhibition was the idea of Carrie Supple who, with the help of volunteers, worked over a number of years to pull together the stories of ordinary people and their roles in the movement.
Marcia Heinemann-Sanders, who helped African Americans in Tennessee to register their vote, features in the exhibition and she made the journey from London to Newcastle to officially open the exhibit which premieres in the North East before going on a nationwide tour.
Its month long stay in the city will be marked be a series of talks, walks and events.
Ms Heinemann-Sanders was one of 50 Cornell University students who helped blacks in the south access and attempt to use the vote.
She said: “It’s a great honour to open this.
“I think civil rights are still in people’s minds but voting is still a big issue, many young people are being told it does not matter but I’m aware of a lot of people who really had to fight to vote, people lost their lives to vote.
“When the terrible heat of the day had receded and people were home we’d drive down rutted dirt roads visiting people who worked chopping cotton, or as maids and cooks, or cleaners.
“As we drove along young white men would chase and try to force us off the road, throw things at us and once or twice take a shot.
“One of my jobs was to toss large tacks out the window so they’d get flat tyres.
“It was pretty dangerous but not as dangerous as it was for black people.”
Marcia Heinemann-Sanders
The exhibition was funded through crowdfunding - and Ms Supple said it couldn’t have happened without the support of countless volunteers.
She added: “The civil rights movement resonates with people all over the world, it’s above and beyond a place or time.
“It’s inspired a lot of UK people and UK people inspired a lot of the civil rights activists in the first place.
“We just want to inspire people who see this to take action for social justice - that might be making someone think about being a teacher, or stand as a councillor.
“It might be about them tackling bullying in their work place, it’s about making them stop and think ‘I will do something’.”
The exhibition runs until May 4, for a full programme of events visit http://www.journeytojustice.org.uk/
Recently Published
Blyth Spartans may miss out on this season's play-offs but have had a cracking campaign and are a club on the up
Journey to Justice in the North East traces city's social history, Martin Luther King's visit and America's turbulent story
Join us on social media.
For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.
Facebook
Got a story in your area?
Is there something happening in your area you would like us to report on?
Chronicle Newsdesk
Tell us about it and, if possible, send us a picture.
Community Editor
Print
The Chronicle is read by more adults than any other regional newspaper on sale in the area. With 170,115 average issue readers, this reach extends to 366,753 weekly readers – that’s over 1/4 of adults in the area!
The average time spent reading the Chronicle is 31 minutes; which shows the length of time that readers are engaging with the editorial and advertising content.
49,199* copies of the Chronicle are sold on average each day as it continues to be an integral part of the region.
*ABC Newcastle Chronicle 100% paid, Mon - Sat, JICREG, 1/10/2012
Online
Audience figures from Omniture, monthly average (Jan - Jun 2014).
More than 1 in 3 ChronicleLive users have clicked through to an online advertisement, demonstrating that our users are responsive and receptive to Internet advertising messages.
ChronicleLive reaches an internet-savvy audience, with 84% of users having purchased products or services online in the past 12 months.
Download our rate cards for all the prices of our print and digital products.
Click here to complete our advertising enquiry form.
The Editor
Darren Thwaites
Darren was appointed editor of the Chronicle in September 2011, following a six-year spell as editor of the Evening Gazette in Teesside.
He has held a number of senior roles on regional newspapers across England, Scotland and Wales over the last 15 years and is now editor-in-chief of Trinity Mirror North East.
Journalists

