Proposal would shield Wyoming ferret hosts from liability
FILE - This Oct. 1, 2014 file photo shows a black-footed ferret peeking out of a tube after its being brought to a ranch near Williams, Ariz. A proposal to get more Wyomingites to agree to the reintroduction of black-footed ... more >
By MEAD GRUVER -      Associated Press -                                    Friday, April 10, 2015
CHEYENNE, Wyo. (AP) - A proposal to get more Wyoming residents to agree to the reintroduction of black-footed ferrets on their property would shield landowners statewide from penalty under the Endangered Species Act in case they inadvertently harmed the animals.
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is taking public comments until June 9 on the plan to categorize black-footed ferrets reintroduced anywhere in Wyoming as “nonessential, experimental” animals not critical to the continued existence of the species.
“There are a lot of landowners in Wyoming that we think would like to have ferrets on their property. But sometimes the prospect of having an endangered species on your property might make folks a little cautious,” Fish and Wildlife spokesman Ryan Moehring said Thursday.
The proposal has the enthusiastic support of the Wyoming Game and Fish Department, which would continue to play a key role in reintroducing ferrets in the state.
Black-footed ferrets are a federally protected endangered species thought to have gone extinct in the wild until a dog named Shep brought home a dead one near Meeteetse in 1981.
Since the early 1990s, some 4,500 black-footed ferrets have been reintroduced to the wild in eight states - Arizona, Colorado, Kansas, Montana, New Mexico, South Dakota, Utah and Wyoming - as well as Mexico and Canada. An estimated 300 live in the wild.
In Wyoming, at least 39 ferrets inhabit the Shirley Basin, where a population of ferrets bred in captivity was released in the early 1990s. Those animals already are categorized under the Endangered Species Act as a nonessential, experimental population.
Plans were in the works to reintroduce ferrets on the Thunder Basin National Grassland and elsewhere in Wyoming. Then in 2009, environmental groups petitioned to classify reintroduced black-footed ferrets in Wyoming as fully protected endangered species.
The petition failed but not before making potential host landowners in Wyoming nervous about the future legal status of the black-footed ferret, according to Game and Fish officials.
“We recognize the only way we’re going to conserve the black-footed ferrets is with the help of willing landowners,” said Zack Walker, bird and mammal nongame supervisor for Game and Fish.
Under the proposal, deliberately shooting a black-footed ferret in Wyoming would remain a problem. Accidentally hitting one with your truck would be forgivable.
Black-footed ferrets are sleek predators that resemble bandits owing to a mask-like band of black fur around their eyes. They inhabit colonies of prairie dogs, their primary prey.
Many ranchers shoot or poison prairie dogs because their colonies pock the landscape with burrows treacherous to livestock. Landowners who agree to host reintroduced black-tailed prairie dogs typically agree to not disturb nearby prairie dog colonies.
Game and Fish will see how the statewide nonessential, experimental proposal goes before discussing bringing more black-footed ferrets back to Wyoming, Walker said.
“There’s definitely not any place that we have in mind right now,” Walker said.
Shares
More from this Story
FILE - In this Oct. 4, 2013 file photo, a black-footed ferret ... more >
Photo Galleries
Question of the Day
Is President Obama right that a nuke deal with Iran will make U.S. safer?
Question of the Day
Most Popular

