Hillary Clinton 2016: How this presidential campaign will be different
55 mins ago
1 hour ago
Hillary Clinton 2016: How this presidential campaign will be different. Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush said the Second Amendment is under attack because of the “liberal, progressive worldview of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton and Eric Holder, and all of the other people who want to take the guns out of the hands of the good guys.”
Hillary may be disastrously misjudging the politics of 2016
In what may be the most predictable piece of news since the last time Dick Cheney grunted something insane, Hillary Clinton is reportedly going to announce the start of her official campaign for president on Sunday. Now that we’ve got some Democrats alongside Rand Paul and Ted Cruz, we can let this bleakly nihilistic struggle for dominance over a crumbling empire — I mean, presidential election — commence.
The question I have for Clinton is whether she is going to play her campaign exclusively for the money seats. Barring some crazy upheaval, she will win the Democratic nomination and certainly have little trouble raising an emperor’s ransom-sized campaign chest. But the general election will not be nearly so easy. And if she’s going to give big donors effective veto over her campaign messaging to keep those dollars rolling in, she could end up losing — especially given the relatively low value of political spending in presidential elections.
So first, let’s talk about the politics of inequality. I continue to believe that a straightforward reboot of the New Deal with a fresh coat of paint would be a big political winner, if anybody with a national profile cared to make the case consistently and strongly. That’s no surprise, given my substantive preference for such policy.
However, there is precedent for such an idea. Both our economy and our politics are eerily reminiscent of the 1920s, when most economic growth flowed immediately to the hyper-wealthy, who owned both parties wholesale. After that era collapsed, FDR won four consecutive elections with sharply anti-rich rhetoric.
I submit that for any liberal candidate, trying to run a middle-of-the-road campaign in an age of stupendous inequality is highly politically risky. The reason is that not only does this feed the (largely correct, at this point) perception that both parties are owned by the 1 percent, thus depressing left-wing turnout, but it also leaves their most powerful political weapon by the wayside. When the Democrats ran some conservative Wall Steet hack in 1924, they got crushed.
More Perspectives W. James Antle III
The lessons of Rand Paul’s pro-life victory Bonnie Kristian
A millennial libertarian’s advice for Rand Paul
But at root, the issue of inequality is a simple one. Wages are stagnant or declining because a tiny minority is stinking rich. The hyper-wealthy and their political allies have jiggered our economic institutions to direct the entirety of income growth towards the 1 percent. Re-jiggering them to cut the rest of the population in on the fruits of productivity growth ought to be a political winner in a democracy.
Instead, so far Clinton is being utterly mealy-mouthed about the issue, talking about the need for “consensus” and equality of opportunity and other such weak tea, probably in part to keep the donor class happy. On the contrary, this is zero-sum class war, and the 1 percent has been winning for 40 years. If the rest of the country is to win, then the rich have to lose. Failing to acknowledge that obvious fact is the kind of timid conservatism that may cost Clinton the election.
But it wouldn’t be the first time even in very recent history. President Obama and the Democrats made a similar mistake in 2009 when it came to macroeconomic policy. Presented with a gigantic economic collapse, they chose as a party to pass a stimulus that was conservative and small (though it contained much great policy) even by their own internal numbers, which ensured a slow and inadequate recovery.
One can litigate over precisely whose fault that was, but the point is that such a choice was extremely risky for the Democrats as a whole. If initial estimates misjudged the size of the collapse, as it later turned out they had, by a lot, then voters were going to hold them responsible for not fixing the problem. A much better tactical choice would have been a large overshoot, or perhaps a stimulus with built-in triggers dispensing more stimulus if unemployment didn’t come down fast enough (which would have meant abolishing the Senate filibuster right out of the gate, to be clear).
Mike Grunwald makes a good case that it was moderates in Congress (particularly in the Senate) who insisted the stimulus be only so big — but it was those very same moderate Democrats who were absolutely obliterated in the 2010 election.
The point here is that sometimes the timid choice is also a risky one.
Politically speaking, this is especially true during a presidential election. As Paul Waldman argues, this is when the marginal campaign dollar is least useful. A huge influx of cash can easily swing a congressional or local race by altering perceptions — or by simply reminding people that a candidate exists. But in presidential races, attitudes are largely fixed, the candidates are ultra-famous, media coverage is intense and unending, and so political spending makes much less of a difference.
So it would be foolish of Clinton to hamstring her political messaging for the sake of a few hundred million bucks she doesn’t even need. But if I had to guess, I’d say that’s exactly what she’s going to do.
Clinton To Announce Plans Sunday, Rubio A Day Later
Political pundits will be going into overdrive this weekend as two potential presidential candidates ready to announce their plans, one of which may cause a fall out between two friends.
Hillary Rodham Clinton will end months of speculation and launch her long-awaited 2016 presidential campaign on Sunday, according to people familiar with her plans.
The first official word that Clinton will seek the Democratic Party’s nomination will come via an online video posted on social media.
“Well hopefully she doesn’t announce in her email, because we’ll never find the announcement, it’ll be lost somewhere,” said Dr. Joseph Usckinski with the University of Miami Political Science Department.
Usckinski was referring to the email scandal that has swirled around Clinton – revelations that as secretary of state she conducted sensitive government business on her personal email that may have been compromised or erased.
“The fact that they’re doing it this Sunday could signal that they want to move past the email debacle that they had over the last month, that they want to put some of these scandals behind them,” said Usckinski.
Clinton is expected to make stops in key early voting states, including Iowa and New Hampshire, where she’ll hold small events with voters.
One Democrat familiar with campaign rollout said Clinton’s stops would include visits to people’s homes in those early states.
The people familiar with Clinton’s plans spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss them publicly.
The former secretary of state will enter the race in a strong position to succeed her rival from the 2008 Democratic primary, President Barack Obama. Clinton appears unlikely to face a stiff primary opponent, though a handful of lower-profile Democrats have said they are considering their own campaigns.
“This is her time. To the Clintons, this is destiny. This is what they’ve wanted for eight years,” said Usckinski.
Among the Democrats who could challenge Clinton in the primary are former Rhode Island Gov. Lincoln Chafee, former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley, former Virginia Sen. Jim Webb and Vice President Joe Biden.
Should she win the nomination, Clinton would face the winner of a Republican primary season that could feature as many as two dozen candidates.
One of those candidates may or may not be Sen. Marco Rubio who will announce his future plans on Monday at Miami’s Freedom Tower.
Speculation has run the gamut as to what he’ll do. While some say he’ll throw his hat in the presidential ring, others say he’ll decide to seek a second term in the Senate and possibly throw his support to fellow Republican Jeb Bush, his mentor, if he decides to run for the Oval Office.
If Rubio does run for president, it will no doubt bring an end to a beautiful relationship with his one time dear friend Jeb Bush.
Ironically, Rubio’s decision to shake things up, his apparent impending bid for the presidency comes, insiders say, like a dagger to Jeb Bush, an all but announced candidate.
“Well, it represents the final nail in the coffin between his relationship with Jeb Bush,” said Political Consultant Fernand Amandi.
Bush has formed an exploratory committee into a presidential run but has not given a timeline as to when he’d make a decision.
Many state GOP leaders, supporters and donors are concerned if both Bush and Rubio decide to run against each other.
“If you see them really go after each other in those first debates, that might signal something,” said Uscinski. “The one advantage that Bush has over everybody is long standing – long standing connections, and long standing relationships with donors.”
But Rubio is drawing some wealthy attention. Billionaire Norman Braman reportedly is ready to give millions to a Rubio campaign.
“I think it’s time to move beyond the Bushs and the Clintons and get a young person to deal with the problems that we have now. I don’t believe in dynasties,” said Braman.
Rubio and Bush have had a close relationship for the last 15 years. In 2010, Rubio waited for Bush to make a decision on a run for the U.S. Senate. Rubio would later write in his book that if Bush decided to run, he would not challenge him in the primary.
Bush bowed out and it was Rubio who went on to challenge former Gov. Charlie Crist for the Senate seat. Bush worked behind the scenes to help Rubio’s campaign. In the summer of 2009, feeling overshadowed and outgunned, Rubio reportedly considered dropping out of the race. It was Bush who gave him the encouragement to stay and eventually win.
Supporters of Rubio still express some dismay that Bush waited until it looked like Rubio could win before endorsing him.
Republicans have been preparing for a second Clinton campaign since she left Obama’s administration in early 2013. They intend to campaign against her by equating her potential presidency to that of a “third” Obama term, during which they argue she would continue his most unpopular policies.
By campaigning heavily in Iowa and New Hampshire, Clinton hopes to avoid making the same stumbles against Obama as she did in the 2008 Iowa caucuses, which he won in an upset.
Clinton’s race is expected to cost more than the $1 billion Obama raised for his 2012 re-election and aides have said she is expected to focus heavily on online fundraising. Her campaign will be required to release its first fundraising report in July and it will be closely examined to measure the strength of her support.
(TM and © Copyright 2015 CBS Radio Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries. CBS RADIO and EYE Logo TM and Copyright 2015 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Used under license. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.)
NRA Leader Wayne LaPierre: ‘Hillary Clinton Will Bring A Permanent Darkness Of Deceit’
The specter of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s imminent presidential campaign dropped like a gift from the heavens at the National Rifle Association’s annual convention Friday.
A succession of potential Republican presidential rivals slung criticism and cracked jokes about the Democratic candidate-to-be, and NRA leader Wayne LaPierre, never given to understatement, predicted doom for the nation if she should win.
“Hillary Rodham Clinton will bring a permanent darkness of deceit and despair forced upon the American people to endure,” LaPierre said. The NRA executive vice president and CEO vowed that the powerful gun lobby would “stand shoulder to shoulder” to prevent her from becoming the next president.
Clinton plans to announce her candidacy for the Democratic nomination on Sunday. Many speakers at the NRA convention took the opportunity to say something about it.
Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush decried the “liberal, progressive worldview of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton and Eric Holder, and all of the other people who want to take the guns out of the hands of the good guys.”
Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker added Clinton’s name to his criticism of the president.
“People like Hillary Clinton seem to think you measure success in government by how many people are dependent on the government,” he said. “I think we measure success by just the opposite: by how many people are no longer dependent on the government.”
And Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal drew laughter when he said he expects Clinton’s campaign slogan won’t be “four more years.”
“The reality is the 2016 campaign is going to be between elitism and populism,” Jindal said. “Hillary Clinton has already made it clear she’ll be on the side of elitism.”
Needling her comment years ago that a “vast right-wing conspiracy” was making trouble for her husband, President Bill Clinton, Jindal called her “leader of the vast left-wing conspiracy.”
Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry didn’t name the former secretary of state but criticized “our failed foreign policy.”
Among 2016 GOP prospects addressing the convention: Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee.
Hillary 2.0 nears its unveiling
Hillary Clinton’s long-anticipated second bid for the White House will begin Sunday, launching an effort to succeed in 2016 where she failed in 2008.
The candidate and her campaign have already signaled that this time will be different.
Tweaks are being made to the settings in which Clinton speaks; the role played by Bill Clinton; and the campaign’s relations with the news media.
Supporters insist the former secretary of State will also steer clear of evincing the sense of entitlement that some Democrats found so off-putting in 2008.
The difference in tone is already being noticed by Democratic voters in Iowa, where Clinton is expected to travel shortly after her Sunday announcement.
“It does feel like it’s going to be a much more retail-focused campaign,” said Nate Boulton, a Des Moines, Iowa, lawyer and a Democratic activist. “I think it will be … much less about using the trappings of frontrunner status.”
Democratic consultants predict that voters will see Clinton in more intimate environments that will serve her better than podium speeches, where she can come across as stiff and uninspiring.
“I think, right after the announcement, it’s incumbent on her to interact with people directly, in small groups, not big crowds,” said Joe Trippi, best known for his work as campaign manager for former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean in 2004.
“That was where she failed last time,” Trippi added, arguing that the 2008 campaign was “almost too protective of her, in terms of not putting her directly with people.”
This was especially counterproductive in Iowa, where would-be caucus-goers have become accustomed to seeing candidates up close and personal.
Key Clinton aides including likely campaign manager Robby Mook recently visited the state, eager to lay groundwork and avoid the mistakes of seven years ago.
Clinton’s most memorable line of her 2008 campaign launch was, “I’m in it to win it” — a slogan that sounded jarringly self-centered to many people. Most Democrats believe that Sunday’s announcement will be much more focused on Clinton as a fighter for the middle class.
The personnel comprising Team Clinton is significantly different this time around, too.
“She needs a campaign focused on the future, not the past, and that needs to be reflected in the staff,” said another Democratic strategist, who asked to remain anonymous. “It’s not the holdovers from 25 years ago but people who have been successful recently. Robby Mook is 35 years old. He has been raised in digital politics. He was, what, nine years old when President Clinton was first elected?”
Mark Penn, a key strategist and divisive figure in 2008, is not expected to be part of the 2016 effort.
Clinton partisans hope that the new staff can help reset her relationship with the media, which was notoriously strained in 2008.
According to The Huffington Post, key aide John Podesta hosted an off-the-record dinner for journalists at his home in Washington on Thursday, with senior members of Clinton’s communications staff also in attendance. Podesta, the report noted, is “a seasoned cook” who “made a pasta with walnut sauce for the dinner guests.”
Pollster Joel Benenson will host a similar event in New York on Friday evening.
Former President Clinton has also indicated that he will play a very different role this time around. He promised to “primarily be … a backstage adviser to her” in a recent interview with Town and Country Magazine.
If he sticks to that pledge, it will be a welcome relief to some of those close to his wife, who believe that his 2008 interventions were often intemperate and counter-productive.
Put it all together and it still doesn’t mean that Clinton will be a perfect candidate or will run a perfect campaign.
Her recent news conference aimed at tamping down a controversy over her use of a private email server while secretary of State was a reminder of her limitations.
On Friday, a new poll from Bloomberg Politics found that only 29 percent of Americans believed she had been truthful in saying she had turned over all relevant emails from that period.
Seventy-two percent of Democrats and independents in the same poll said it would be “a good thing” if she faced serious competition for her party’s presidential nomination.
The rebooted Hillary Clinton campaign won’t be without flaws. But, in the minds of many Democrats, if it simply does a better job showcasing her strengths, it will be good enough.
“She is at her best when her guard is down, whether that is with small groups of people or with the press,” Trippi said. “She excels if that is the course they take.”
“She was in too tight a box at the beginning” of the 2008 campaign, veteran Democratic strategist Robert Shrum said. “While I believe in message discipline and its importance in campaigns, people need to know her in an authentic way.”
Some of Clinton’s most persistent critics in the Democratic Party appear to be taking notice.
David Axelrod, a former adviser to Obama who has repeatedly criticized Clinton over the years, suggested the signs indicate she’s ready to run a different campaign the second time around.
“Learning the lessons of 2008: HRC rollout plans stress humility. No Clinton Inc., the ‘inevitable’ juggernaut that left voters behind,” Axelrod wrote on Twitter on Friday.
Hillary Clinton will announce presidential campaign Sunday
Hillary Clinton will announce her second run for the presidency on Sunday, starting her campaign as the Democrats’ best hope of fending off a crowded field of lesser-known Republican rivals and retaining the White House.
The overwhelming favorite for the Democratic presidential nomination, Clinton will nonetheless face multiple challenges as she returns to the campaign trail seven years after losing the nomination in 2008 to Barack Obama.
She has been a high-profile figure in American politics for more than two decades since her husband, Bill Clinton, won the presidency in 1992, and her fame still eclipses the other likely Democratic contenders and Republican opponents.
But with the fame comes a set of challenges Clinton will need to overcome in the coming months. She will try to get past a controversy over her use of personal email while secretary of state, and find a way to connect with ordinary Americans after her years as the top U.S. diplomat.
Her advisers, including her husband, have urged her to take nothing for granted, arguing voters would be repelled by anything that resembles a pre-ordained coronation.
A Democrat close to the Clinton camp told Reuters on Friday that Clinton, who is also a former U.S. senator, would announce her long-anticipated plans through video and social media.
After the announcement, she will travel to the early voting states of Iowa and New Hampshire, said the source, who asked to remain unidentified.
A representative for Clinton declined to comment.
Clinton, 67, has sounded out potential campaign themes during public appearances, casting herself as both a love-filled new grandmother with a vested concern in the future and a wise former diplomat who understands how countries thrive and fail.
In contrast to her 2008 campaign, Clinton has shown signs she will not play down how being a woman distinguishes her from the 44 men who have served as U.S. president.
She has filled speeches with paeans to the moral and economic importance of gender equality and women’s rights, arguing that economic growth, the health of the middle class and the stability of foreign peace treaties all hinge on reducing gender discrimination.
“Just think about all the hard-working families that depend on two incomes to make ends meet,” Clinton said in a paid speech at a conference for women technology executives in California’s Silicon Valley, citing her own experience of raising a young daughter while working as a partner at an Arkansas law firm in the 1980s. “When one is short-changed, the entire family suffers.”
What this might mean in terms of policy proposals is vague, although Clinton said in the same speech she was “embarrassed” that the United States remained one of the few countries where there is no national right to paid family leave.
There are a dozen or so likely Republican contenders vying for the presidency, many still relatively unknown. Clinton has a different task: reassuring voters who already like her and wooing those who do not.
Only 2 percent of Americans say they have never heard of her, according to a Gallup poll last month, a level of name recognition exceeding that of Vice President Joe Biden, a name unknown to a 10th of Americans.
Her nearest likely rivals for the Democratic nomination, former Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley and Jim Webb, the former U.S. senator from Virginia, struggle to get a fraction of Clinton’s media coverage, favorable poll numbers and donations.
Clinton’s use of social media to announce her White House run amounts to the adoption of tactics deployed by Obama in 2008 to raise large sums through small donations and appeal to young voters.
Also on Friday, Clinton released an update to her memoir, “Hard Choices,” in which she described her final days as secretary of state and her feelings about her first grandchild.
CONTROVERSY AND CRITICISM
Clinton has been a target for Republican criticism since Bill Clinton’s first presidential campaign. He promised voters then that they would get “two for one” by putting them both in the White House, but quickly dropped that claim when it proved unpopular.
Hillary Clinton’s biggest initiative while her husband was president, national healthcare reform, fell apart without coming to a vote in Congress.
She became a figure of public fascination, and admiration in some quarters, for standing by her husband when allegations of his sexual infidelities first surfaced during his 1992 presidential campaign, and again in 1998 when his affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky surfaced.
Both the Clintons have been investigated repeatedly by Republican lawmakers and the then United States Office of the Independent Counsel.
As Hillary Clinton prepared to start her campaign, she faced criticism from Republicans for using only a personal email account while secretary of state, and for the Clinton Foundation’s reliance on donations and payments from foreign governments for its philanthropy work abroad, even as she served as the country’s top diplomat.
Clinton has said she should have used a government email account as secretary of state while insisting that she had violated no rules.
During the campaign, Clinton will be expected to say whether she will more closely align with the centrist economic policies of her husband’s administration or the populist policies championed by the progressive wing of her party.
Some Democrats have urged Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a leader of the party’s liberal wing and a critic of Wall Street and big banks, to challenge her, but Warren has declined.
Important truth aboutpresidential candidates
As Hillary Clinton gets ready to announce Sunday – or, rather, as she gets ready to finally admit she’s been running for president more or less since the day after she conceded the 2008 nomination – we need to accept an important truth about presidential candidates.
For all practical purposes, there’s simply no such thing as a strong general-election candidate.
There are strong candidates for a presidential nomination, and Clinton is about the strongest in modern times. There can be weak general-election candidates, too. Those perceived as ideological outliers (Barry Goldwater in 1964, George McGovern in 1972, and possibly Ronald Reagan in 1980) can cost their party a few percentage points beyond what a generic Democrat or Republican would have received.
It’s also possible to imagine a candidate so inept that he or she forfeits votes a generic candidate might have won – McGovern, with a mismanaged convention and a botched running-mate selection, might qualify.
But candidates who are so wonderful, whose appeal to swing voters is so strong, that they override the basic conditions of the election – the economy, war and peace, the popularity of the president, how long the incumbent party has held the White House? In the entire survey research era, the only candidate who can plausibly make that claim is Dwight Eisenhower, and he just may have benefited from too many consecutive Democratic terms in office.
Everything done by campaigns serves to build a superhumanly wonderful portrait of the candidate. There are those who are inclined to vote for that candidate anyway – partisans who always vote for their party, or swing voters reacting to the economy or other fundamentals. Those not inclined to do so probably won’t believe the hype, no matter how gushing.
It may feel as if we’re drawn to vote for Barack Obama or Mitt Romney because we like them. In fact, we’re just very receptive to liking candidates who we are (more or less rationally) likely to support in the first place.
Consider Obama. In 2008, it certainly seemed that he was a once-in-a-generation political force, a candidate who could truly bring new voters to the polls and shake up the status quo. And yet his final results looked a lot like what would happen if the 2004 electoral map were just shifted to the Democrats to account for Iraq and a deep recession – just as predicted by political science models that know nothing about the candidates.
Even the downside of nominating a dud candidate is much less than it seems. By the time a candidate advances to the general election, he or she has been thoroughly vetted by the press and by the party, so there’s a limit to how bad he or she can really be.
Granted, there’s always the possibility something unprecedented will occur; we only have a very limited number of presidential elections to test for effects. It’s not impossible, for example, that the chance to elect the first woman president will matter. But it’s not especially likely, either.
The harsh truth is that especially in a partisan age, the candidates themselves aren’t that big a factor in presidential general elections. Democrats may be wasting a lot of time and energy worrying what they would do if something happened to Clinton, but the truth is that they would do about as well with most replacements. And the odds are that the same will be true on the Republican side, too.
GOP Candidates Sharpen Attacks on Clinton Ahead of 2016 Announcement
Likely GOP presidential candidates used the National Rifle Association’s annual conference on Friday to sharpen their attacks on Hillary Clinton in anticipation of the start of her presidential campaign.
A slew of soon to be candidates touted their love of the Second Amendment while slamming Clinton for her tenure as secretary of state and her long history in Washington.
“I understand Hillary is about to announce her candidacy this weekend. I wonder what her slogan is going to be,” Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal said before referencing her comments about the 2012 Benghazi attacks. “I suspect it won’t be ‘four more years’…But it may be ‘What difference does it make?'”
Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, who is already in the race, said, “if Hillary Clinton is going to join with Barack Obama and the gun grabbers and come after our guns, then what I say is come and take it.”
And Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker said Clinton is a liberal who measures success “by how many people are dependent on the government.”
The former secretary of state is expected to announce her campaign on Sunday. She will become the overwhelming favorite to capture the Democratic presidential nomination, while the Republican race is expected to be much tighter.
But the harshest rhetoric came from NRA leader Wayne LaPierre, who listed off a number of scandals he said plagued Clinton in Arkansas, the White House, Senate, State Department and beyond. He said she “participated in the cover up and ensuing smear campaign” against Monica Lewinsky.
“From a coronation you don’t get the best for America, or even the best for the Democratic party,” LaPierre added. “What you get instead if Hillary Rodham Clinton.”
Florida ‘Insiders': Bush Fares Better Than Rubio vs. Hillary
Florida political insiders believe that former Gov. Jeb Bush would be a stronger candidate than Sen. Marco Rubio against Hillary Clinton in the Sunshine State, the Tampa Bay Times reported Friday.
The newspaper said that in its poll of more than 130 insiders, the decision “was not even a close call.”
More than 78 percent of the political consultants, lobbyists, fundraisers, academics and others polled by the newspaper said that Bush would be a stronger candidate than Rubio against Clinton, the former secretary of state and current Democratic frontrunner.
The story lists the names of the insiders polled – 75 of them Republicans, 47 Democrats, and 11 registered to neither major party.
The Times admitted that the survey was “entirely unscientific” and that “our sample [was] loaded with people who have previously worked for Gov. Bush or are currently actively supporting him.”
Those caveats aside, the poll provides a snapshot of current Republican establishment attitudes about next year’s presidential race in Florida.
“Most FL Republican heavyweights are supporting Jeb and see Marco running against him as an act of disloyalty towards his mentor,” said one Republican.
Another lamented that since he was elected to the Senate in 2010, Rubio “seems to have largely ignored his Florida base and continued campaigning nationwide utilizing the same plan and speeches he has employed since 2009 – now with the addition [of] a foreign policy component.”
This insider added that many people who had been huge fans of Rubio “feel let down as the Senate seems to have been a short layover marked by a lack of achievement on the way to another goal.”
But another said that Rubio “excels” in the position of underdog, adding: “Jeb hasn’t run for any office in over 10 years and the Bush fatigue is still strong. He has skeletons Rubio doesn’t have.”
As a Hispanic Republican with an “all-American” personal story, Rubio has a “charm and appeal … that can’t be dismissed,” the insider added.
Other respondents emphasized that Mrs. Clinton was a formidable candidate who should not be underestimated. More than 72 percent of the insiders said she has a strong chance to carry Florida in the general election, including 57 percent of the Republicans.
For example, the paper also quoted a Democratic insider arguing that Clinton inspired a degree of “passionate support” from her political base that Bush and Rubio both lacked.
“No matter the GOP nominee — Florida will never move out of the toss up column in 2016. In the end Jeb or Rubio would carry Florida over Hillary,” a Republican insider warned. “Anyone else on the GOP side and Florida goes blue when all said and done.”
But there is also evidence that many Floridians might prefer a Republican candidate from outside the state like Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker.
Even in Florida, “Walker is making inroads,” the same newspaper reported March 27.
It cited a new Public Policy Polling survey showing Bush leading Walker among likely Republican voters by a 25 percent to 17 percent margin, with Rubio garnering 15 percent.
Among Florida Republicans describing themselves as “very conservative,” Walker led Bush 23 percent to 19 percent, the Times reports.
The Wisconsin governor “has made at least seven trips, mostly below the radar, to southeast and southwest Florida — a mecca for Midwestern transplants. In a state where Bush overwhelmingly controls the GOP money machine, Walker has several top Republican fundraisers, and millionaire and billionaire donors actively helping him,” the Times reported.
2015-04-11
About Tristan Gerrard
Journalist and Writer, Guest writer in many technology and politics blogs and news sites. Graduated from New York City University in Computer Technologies Engineering and working in a multiglobal company valley now.
Leave a Reply
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>
1 hour ago
1 hour ago 1
2 hours ago

