Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Ohio Dems Strickland endorsement
Former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland has been endorsed by the Ohio Democratic Party in his 2016 bid for the U.S. Senate. (Gus Chan, Plain Dealer Publishing Co.)
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland now has the official backing of the Ohio Democratic Party in his bid to challenge Republican U.S. Sen. Rob Portman in 2016.
The party's 150-member executive committee decided Saturday to give Strickland the nod. The former governor is trying to head off a primary challenge from a fellow Democrat, Cincinnati City Councilman P.G. Sittenfeld.
Strickland  raised $671,073 in the first quarter of his U.S. Senate candidacy, less than the $750,000 that Sittenfeld raised.
But Strickland only announced his candidacy  in late February and had only 35 days for fundraising, according to campaign spokesman Dennis Willard. Sittenfeld was raising money since January.
Strickland already has the support of most establishment Ohio Democrats, including the Ohio Democrats in Congress, and of former President Bill Clinton.
Sittenfeld's campaign had raised questions about an early party endorsement, noting that the party similarly gave early support to Ed FitzGerald, the Democrats' failed candidate for governor last year.
Strickland's campaign issued a brief statement Saturday thanking the party for its support.
"We are fortunate to have such a strong Democratic Party here in Ohio, and today's endorsement builds upon our momentum as we work together to create opportunities for all hard working Ohioans," Strickland said.
Conservative enough? Jeb Bush's Right Angle
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy
cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

