Fugitive ex-cop Henry Solis caught in Mexico
By Steve Almasy, CNN
Updated 0553 GMT (1253 HKT) May 27, 2015
Henry Solis was in his first year as a Los Angeles police officer.
Story highlights
Henry Solis is accused of shooting another man after a bar fight and a foot chase
Solis and his father drove to El Paso, Texas, where the now-former officer disappeared
The Chihuahua attorney general announced the arrest
(CNN)
The two-month search for a former Los Angeles Police Department officer suspected of homicide in California ended in Mexico, the Chihuahua attorney general said Tuesday in a written statement.
Henry Solis, 27, had been wanted in the March death of Salome Rodriguez, 23, who died after a shooting that followed a fight between the men in a downtown Pomona, California, bar in Los Angeles County.
Solis was arrested Tuesday in Ciudad Juarez, just across the border from El Paso, Texas, and turned over to the FBI and U.S. Marshals.
Police said in March that after an early morning altercation in the nightclub district, Solis pursued his victim on foot and shot him multiple times.
Solis then called his father in Lancaster, California, and later that morning they began the trek to El Paso, authorities have said.
Victor Solis said he dropped off his son at a bus stop in El Paso, and his son made some incriminating statements "not only about his actions that day but also that he would never be seen again," Scott Garriola, special FBI agent who runs the fugitive task force from the Los Angeles Bureau, said in March.
Henry Solis worked in the Devonshire Division of the San Fernando Valley, where he rode with a training officer.  LAPD Chief Charlie Beck fired Solis a few days after he disappeared.
The FBI said Solis is a veteran of the Marines with extensive training with weapons.
Marine Corps records say Solis served in Iraq from April to November 2007, earning several medals, including for the Iraq campaign, global war on terrorism service and Marine Corps good conduct.
The personnel file also shows Solis was an aircraft maintenance technician and a security guard.
The FBI had offered $25,000 for information leading directly to the arrest of Solis.
Several weeks after the shooting, Victor Solis, 53, was arrested in Lancaster, California, and charged with making a false statement to an FBI agent.
Victor Solis told the FBI on March 16 that his son called on March 13, said he wanted to spend some vacation time in El Paso, and rode with his father to that city 800 miles away, legal documents say. Victor Solis said that after dropping off his son at the bus station, he later crossed into Mexico alone, the FBI said in a criminal complaint.
A surveillance camera recorded Henry Solis and his father crossing the pedestrian bridge together into Mexico, the FBI said.
CNN's Abel Alvarado contributed to this report.
More from US
Confirm


Victor Solis, Henry Solis
FBI
On March 14, a surveillance camera captures Victor Solis, left, walking his son Henry across the El Paso border into Mexico.
On March 14, a surveillance camera captures Victor Solis, left, walking his son Henry across the El Paso border into Mexico.
(FBI)
Fugitive ex-LAPD officer wanted for murder is arrested in Mexico, officials say
A two-month manhunt for an ex-LAPD officer accused of murder ended Tuesday when the 27-year-old was arrested in Mexico, authorities said.
 Chihuahua state authorities said Henry Solis resisted arrest, but no shots were fired when he was apprehended in Juarez, across the Rio Grande from El Paso, Texas.
 Solis told authorities he knew his capture was coming “sooner or later,” Mexican officials said at a news conference.
Caption Funeral held for man allegedly murdered by former LAPD officer
Funeral held for man allegedly murdered by former LAPD officer
Funeral held for man allegedly murdered by former LAPD officer
Caption Funeral held for man allegedly murdered by former LAPD officer
Funeral held for man allegedly murdered by former LAPD officer
Funeral held for man allegedly murdered by former LAPD officer
Caption Father of fugitive ex-LAPD officer charged after allegedly walking his son into Mexico
A Lancaster man who allegedly drove his fugitive LAPD officer son to Texas and crossed into Mexico with him to help him escape prosecution for homicide appeared in federal court Thursday and was ordered held without bail.
A Lancaster man who allegedly drove his fugitive LAPD officer son to Texas and crossed into Mexico with him to help him escape prosecution for homicide appeared in federal court Thursday and was ordered held without bail.
Caption Fugitive LAPD officer, charged with murder, fled to Texas with father's help: FBI
A rookie LAPD officer who allegedly shot a 23-year-old man to death following a fight in Pomona fled to Texas with the help of his father, according to an FBI agent's affidavit released Thursday.
A rookie LAPD officer who allegedly shot a 23-year-old man to death following a fight in Pomona fled to Texas with the help of his father, according to an FBI agent's affidavit released Thursday.
Caption Officer suspected in Pomona shooting terminated from LAPD
A Los Angeles police officer wanted on suspicion of murder for a shooting that took place in Pomona last week was terminated from the department.
A Los Angeles police officer wanted on suspicion of murder for a shooting that took place in Pomona last week was terminated from the department.
Caption Arrest warrant issued for off-duty LAPD officer in Pomona shooting death
Arrest warrant issued for off-duty LAPD officer in Pomona shooting death.
Arrest warrant issued for off-duty LAPD officer in Pomona shooting death.
 One state police official said Solis was “hidden among relatives” in the El Mezquital neighborhood where he was arrested. The official, Pablo Ernesto Rocha Acosta, didn’t give specifics about what led investigators to the neighborhood, saying only that Solis’ capture was the result of technology, field work and the exchange of information with United States authorities.
 Solis is expected to be turned over to Mexican immigration officials, who will probably meet with FBI agents at the U.S.-Mexico border, officials said.
 Solis had been the target of an international manhunt after authorities issued a warrant for his arrest, alleging that he shot and killed Salome Rodriguez Jr. in downtown Pomona while off-duty during the early morning hours of March 13. In the days that followed, Solis was fired from the Los Angeles Police Department and his father charged with lying to federal investigators about his son’s whereabouts.
 On Tuesday, Rodriguez’s mother welcomed the news of Solis’ arrest. Lidia Rodriguez said she had kept a nightly vigil in the parking lot where her wounded son collapsed, praying federal agents would find the man accused of killing him.
 "If it’s true he got caught, hallelujah!” Rodriguez said. “We think this is God’s work.”
 Solis, a former Marine who served a tour in combat in Iraq, had spent nine months with the LAPD before authorities allege that he became involved in some kind of dispute with Rodriguez at a Pomona bar, then chased him and shot him. Coroner’s officials said Rodriguez, a 23-year-old truck driver, was shot four times.
  Solis didn’t show up for work the day after the shooting, LAPD officials said. That night, Pomona police had publicly identified him as a person of interest in the investigation of the killing, circulating fliers with his photo and information about his missing car.
PmnaTown
  Meanwhile, authorities allege Solis made “incriminating statements” about the shooting and vowed he “would never be seen again,” according to documents filed in federal court.
 Solis had ditched his Volkswagen Jetta a few blocks from the shooting and called his father for help, authorities said. Victor Solis left his Lancaster home the morning of March 13 and drove with his son 800 miles to El Paso, where he told authorities he dropped the younger Solis off at a bus stop, according to court records.
 But surveillance footage showed Victor Solis walking with his son across the border into Mexico, authorities said. The father was later arrested and charged with lying to federal investigators in an attempt to help hide his son. Last week, a federal judge released Victor Solis on $10,000 bail.
 Soon after the shooting, Pomona police formally identified Henry Solis as the suspect in the killing, describing him as armed and dangerous. The FBI offered a $25,000 reward for information leading to his arrest. Explaining his swift decision to fire the probationary officer, LAPD Chief Charlie Beck said Solis had “dishonored” the department, his country and his family, and should turn himself in to “face the consequences.”
 Friends and family said they were baffled by the allegations, recalling a driven yet easy-going man who had a deep sense of pride in his job as a Los Angeles police officer. Solis had an “unremarkable” history and no disciplinary issues with the LAPD, officials said.
 On Tuesday, Rodriguez’s mother said she was grateful for her son’s many friends who shared Solis’ picture on social media, both in the U.S. and Mexico. Lidia Rodriguez said she still dreams of her son.
 She found strength, she said, in her desire to see the day Solis would be caught. Now, she said, she hopes for a trial.
 “The first day, I’ll be there,” she said. “I want him to see my family and who he killed.”
kate.mather@latimes.com
marisa.gerber@latimes.com
matt.hamilton@latimes.com
UPDATE
6:08 p.m.: This post was updated to include details of the arrest and a comment from Salome Rodriguez Jr.'s mother.
This post was first published at 4:11 p.m. 
Related Content
Comments

