Fugitive ex-cop Henry Solis caught in Mexico
By Steve Almasy, CNN
Updated 0553 GMT (1253 HKT) May 27, 2015
Henry Solis was in his first year as a Los Angeles police officer.
Story highlights
Henry Solis is accused of shooting another man after a bar fight and a foot chase
Solis and his father drove to El Paso, Texas, where the now-former officer disappeared
The Chihuahua attorney general announced the arrest
(CNN)
The two-month search for a former Los Angeles Police Department officer suspected of homicide in California ended in Mexico, the Chihuahua attorney general said Tuesday in a written statement.
Henry Solis, 27, had been wanted in the March death of Salome Rodriguez, 23, who died after a shooting that followed a fight between the men in a downtown Pomona, California, bar in Los Angeles County.
Solis was arrested Tuesday in Ciudad Juarez, just across the border from El Paso, Texas, and turned over to the FBI and U.S. Marshals.
Police said in March that after an early morning altercation in the nightclub district, Solis pursued his victim on foot and shot him multiple times.
Solis then called his father in Lancaster, California, and later that morning they began the trek to El Paso, authorities have said.
Victor Solis said he dropped off his son at a bus stop in El Paso, and his son made some incriminating statements "not only about his actions that day but also that he would never be seen again," Scott Garriola, special FBI agent who runs the fugitive task force from the Los Angeles Bureau, said in March.
Henry Solis worked in the Devonshire Division of the San Fernando Valley, where he rode with a training officer.  LAPD Chief Charlie Beck fired Solis a few days after he disappeared.
The FBI said Solis is a veteran of the Marines with extensive training with weapons.
Marine Corps records say Solis served in Iraq from April to November 2007, earning several medals, including for the Iraq campaign, global war on terrorism service and Marine Corps good conduct.
The personnel file also shows Solis was an aircraft maintenance technician and a security guard.
The FBI had offered $25,000 for information leading directly to the arrest of Solis.
Several weeks after the shooting, Victor Solis, 53, was arrested in Lancaster, California, and charged with making a false statement to an FBI agent.
Victor Solis told the FBI on March 16 that his son called on March 13, said he wanted to spend some vacation time in El Paso, and rode with his father to that city 800 miles away, legal documents say. Victor Solis said that after dropping off his son at the bus station, he later crossed into Mexico alone, the FBI said in a criminal complaint.
A surveillance camera recorded Henry Solis and his father crossing the pedestrian bridge together into Mexico, the FBI said.
CNN's Abel Alvarado contributed to this report.
More from US
Confirm


Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Ex-LAPD officer wanted in killing arrested in Mexico
MEXICO CITY (AP) — A fugitive former Los Angeles police officer charged with killing a man during an off-duty fight was arrested Tuesday in northern Mexico, officials said.
Post to Facebook
Ex-LAPD officer wanted in killing arrested in Mexico MEXICO CITY (AP) — A fugitive former Los Angeles police officer charged with killing a man during an off-duty fight was arrested Tuesday in northern Mexico, officials said. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvpQ1A
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Ex-LAPD officer wanted in killing arrested in Mexico
AP 12:22 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
In this photo provided by Mexico's attorney general's office, fugitive former Los Angeles police officer Henry Solis, 27, is seen after he was captured by Mexican security forces in the border city of Ciudad Juarez, May 26, 2015.
(Photo: Mexico's Attorney Generals Office)
MEXICO CITY (AP) — A fugitive former Los Angeles police officer charged with killing a man during an off-duty fight was arrested Tuesday in northern Mexico, officials said.
Henry Solis, 27, was captured by security forces in Ciudad Juarez, across the border from El Paso, Texas, the Chihuahua state attorney general's office said. The arrest was made thanks to an exchange of information with U.S. authorities and intelligence work, it said.
"Henry Solis will be put at the disposition of Mexico's migration office so that he can be handed over to the appropriate authorities," a statement from the office said.
Solis, who was a probationary LAPD officer, is wanted in the shooting death of Salome Rodriguez, 23, outside a nightclub in Pomona, California on March 13. Investigators said the two had gotten into a dispute in the club.
Solis' father was later arrested and charged in a federal court in El Paso with making false statements to FBI agents to help his son escape to Mexico.
According to an affidavit from an FBI agent, on the day of the killing, Solis called his father's home and a short time later the elder Solis left in a hurry.
In an FBI interview, Victor Solis said his son claimed to have five days of vacation and wanted to go to El Paso.
The elder Solis said he drove his son to El Paso, where he dropped him at a bus station early on March 14 and didn't see him again.
Victor Solis also claimed he later crossed the border into Mexico alone but surveillance video captured him crossing with his son, according to the affidavit.
A $25,000 reward had been offered for information leading to the arrest of Henry Solis.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1HvpQ1A
TOP VIDEOS
May 26, 2015

