Fugitive ex-cop Henry Solis caught in Mexico
By Steve Almasy, CNN
Updated 0553 GMT (1253 HKT) May 27, 2015
Henry Solis was in his first year as a Los Angeles police officer.
Story highlights
Henry Solis is accused of shooting another man after a bar fight and a foot chase
Solis and his father drove to El Paso, Texas, where the now-former officer disappeared
The Chihuahua attorney general announced the arrest
(CNN)
The two-month search for a former Los Angeles Police Department officer suspected of homicide in California ended in Mexico, the Chihuahua attorney general said Tuesday in a written statement.
Henry Solis, 27, had been wanted in the March death of Salome Rodriguez, 23, who died after a shooting that followed a fight between the men in a downtown Pomona, California, bar in Los Angeles County.
Solis was arrested Tuesday in Ciudad Juarez, just across the border from El Paso, Texas, and turned over to the FBI and U.S. Marshals.
Police said in March that after an early morning altercation in the nightclub district, Solis pursued his victim on foot and shot him multiple times.
Solis then called his father in Lancaster, California, and later that morning they began the trek to El Paso, authorities have said.
Victor Solis said he dropped off his son at a bus stop in El Paso, and his son made some incriminating statements "not only about his actions that day but also that he would never be seen again," Scott Garriola, special FBI agent who runs the fugitive task force from the Los Angeles Bureau, said in March.
Henry Solis worked in the Devonshire Division of the San Fernando Valley, where he rode with a training officer.  LAPD Chief Charlie Beck fired Solis a few days after he disappeared.
The FBI said Solis is a veteran of the Marines with extensive training with weapons.
Marine Corps records say Solis served in Iraq from April to November 2007, earning several medals, including for the Iraq campaign, global war on terrorism service and Marine Corps good conduct.
The personnel file also shows Solis was an aircraft maintenance technician and a security guard.
The FBI had offered $25,000 for information leading directly to the arrest of Solis.
Several weeks after the shooting, Victor Solis, 53, was arrested in Lancaster, California, and charged with making a false statement to an FBI agent.
Victor Solis told the FBI on March 16 that his son called on March 13, said he wanted to spend some vacation time in El Paso, and rode with his father to that city 800 miles away, legal documents say. Victor Solis said that after dropping off his son at the bus station, he later crossed into Mexico alone, the FBI said in a criminal complaint.
A surveillance camera recorded Henry Solis and his father crossing the pedestrian bridge together into Mexico, the FBI said.
CNN's Abel Alvarado contributed to this report.
More from US
Confirm


Former Los Angeles policeman, sought in murder, arrested in Mexico
MEXICO CITY
MEXICO CITY A former Los Angeles police officer, who fled after he was accused of killing a man following a fight near a southern California nightclub district, has been arrested in northern Mexico, state prosecutors said on Tuesday.
Henry Solis, 27, was detained in the border city of Ciudad Juarez and was handed over to Mexican migration authorities, the Chihuahua state prosecutor's office said in a statement.
Agents of the state prosecutor's office captured Solis on Tuesday following coordination with U.S. authorities, it added.
Solis is accused of shooting Salome Rodriguez Jr. multiple times on March 13 near a strip of nightclubs in downtown Pomona, about 35 miles (55 km) east of Los Angeles.
Solis, who was off-duty at the time of the shooting, was terminated by the Los Angeles Police Department after he was named a suspect in the case.
Authorities said Solis then fled to Mexico, allegedly with the help of his father, 53-year-old Victor Solis. The father was arrested in late March and was charged with lying to federal agents.
(Reporting by Dan Whitcomb in Los Angeles and Dave Graham and Joanna Zuckerman Bernstein in Mexico City; Editing by Mohammad Zargham and Ken Wills )
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

