Fifa vice-president reportedly among those arrested this morning
Your email address
Note: We do not store your email address(es) but your IP address will be logged to prevent abuse of this feature. Please read our Legal Terms & Policies
According to reports, among those arrested is Jeffrey Webb - vice-president of football's governing body. Here, we take a closer look at the Fifa officials.
1. Webb is the vice-president of Fifa, a role he assumed in May 2012.
2. He comes from the Cayman islands and as well as being Fifa vice-president, also holds the role as president of CONCAF (Confederation of North, Central America and Caribbean Association Football) and president of CIFA (Cayman Islands Football Association).
3. Now 50 years old, the lawyer became president of the Cayman Islands at the age of just 26.
4. In 2012, we was elected unanimously to become the president of CONCAF, making him the youngest ever president of a regional association. He was re-elected unopposed in April 2015.
5. Webb succeeded Jack Warner, the disgraced former president of CONCAF. Upon taking charge he launched an integrity report and audit into the activities of his predecessor which concluded that there had been serious managerial failings and that millions of dollars of funding had been misused.
6. He is a former member of Fifa's Transparency and Compliance Committee, a taskforce set up by football's governing body to help ensure "the principles of good governance, transparency and zero tolerance towards any wrongdoing" were being upheld. Most recently, he was appointed as member of Fifa's Strategic, Finance, Organizing World Cup and Emergency Committees. He sits on a number of Fifa committees - including Bureau 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia (TM), Development Committee, Emergency Committee, Executive Committee, Finance Committee, Organising Committee for the FIFA U-20 World Cup, Organising Committee for the FIFA World Cup (TM), Strategic Committee, Task Force against Racism and Discrimination
7. Webb was among those who called for the 'Garcia report' - a report into allegations of corruption commissioned by Fifa in 2012 and delivered to Fifa in September 2014 - to be made public.
8. Sepp Blatter quipped in 2013 that Webb could be his successor as president. It was later spun as a throw-away line, however Webb has been seen as a credible contender when the current head of football's governing body finally steps down. On the matter, Webb said in 2013: "I'm a servant of the game. When I set out to volunteer and be involved in this game, it was about passion, it was about my football club and helping them. Then it became about getting involved in my national association. I think I've had 28 or 29 different jobs since I've been involved in football. It's about giving back, it's about serving the game. Who knows what lies in the future? I had no idea two or three years ago that I'd become vice-president of Fifa or president of Concacaf, but that's life, that's the journey."
news
News
people
News
Arts and Entertainment
health
Sport
tv
News
motoring
Sport
Sport
Sport
Caption competition
Sport blogs
1
5
Please save my husband
As the health of blogger Raif Badawi worsens in prison, his wife urges EU governments to put pressure on the Saudi Arabian royal family to allow her husband to join his family in Canada
They shall not be moved: jobless protesters bring Tunisia to a halt
A former North African boom town is wasting away while its unemployed citizens stick steadfastly to their sit-in
Hanging with the Hoff
Working with David Hasselhoff on his new TV series was an education for Ella Smith
Hipsters of Arabia
Can Dubai’s ‘creative village’ attract the right type of goatee-wearing individualist?
The cult of Roger Federer
What is it that inspires such obsessive devotion?
Malaysian munchies
With new flights, the amazing street food of Kuala Lumpur just got more accessible
Mud guards: 10 best festival beauty
Whether you're off to the Isle of Wight, Glastonbury or a local music event, we've found the products to help you
A Different League
Unai Emery’s passion for winning and eye for a bargain keep Seville centre stage in Europe, says Pete Jenson
Steve Bunce on Boxing
Amir Khan and James DeGale’s remarkable Olympic performances were just the start of an extraordinary journey
Abuse - and the hell that follows
James Rhodes on the extraordinary legal battle to publish his memoir
It's oh so quiet!
'Timeless fashion'
It may be a paradox, but the industry loves it
Could have done with Osama bin Laden staying alive?
Robert Fisk on the Fountainheads of World Evil in 2011 - and 2015
Evolution of swimwear
Sun, sex and an anthropological study
One academic’s summer of hell in Magaluf

