Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Pizza oven remains, tiki hut removed from Jimmy Dimora's Independence house (photos)
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio -- The brick oven is still in the backyard of former Cuyahoga County Commissioner Jimmy Dimora's house, but the tiki hut is gone.
U.S. Marshals' administrative officer Denise Bortnick said the hut, which was bought with bribe money, was not affixed to the property and the family was able to take it.
The marshals were at the house Monday morning to take over the property  following Dimora's conviction and imprisonment on corruption charges.
Deputy marshals hope to list the house for sale within two weeks. Some of the proceeds will reimburse the government for the cost of prosecuting Dimora.
Dimora's wife, Lori, will be allowed to keep half of the proceeds from the sale.
In the back of the house, under a covered area and next to a covered pool, is a lavish pizza oven surrounded by bricks. The oven, which Dimora had installed at a deep discount by a contractor, figured into his 2012 trial for racketeering.
The famed pizza oven. pic.twitter.com/K3zVaq2KwM
As they did in the front , the marshals put a "no trespassing sign" on the back door of the house.
Bortnick said the marshals and contractors began inspecting the home. She said the house is clean and that nothing is missing.
She also said Lori Dimora was cooperative.
The house will be inspected routinely until it is sold.
Deputy marshals walked into the home shortly after 8 a.m.
The date was set in  an agreement Jimmy Dimora made with prosecutors to have his wife move out of the home six months after the end of his appeals process. The U.S. Supreme Court in October rejected Dimora's request to review his 2012 bribery and corruption convictions from a federal court in Cleveland.
Dimora, 59, is serving a 28-year prison sentence  for committing a decade's worth of racketeering, bribery and corruption charges. He is being held at the Victorville medium security prison in San Bernardino County, California.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy
cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

