NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Photo
Torrential rains in Houston left at least four people dead on Tuesday, with many stranded and much of the city at a standstill. Credit Reuters
Advertisement
HOUSTON —  Families in one of the neighborhoods hardest hit by flooding here survived by going onto their roofs, into their attics and on top of dressers, with one 9-year-old boy sleeping through it all on the top bunk of a sturdy bunk bed.
The Toyota Center, the downtown basketball arena where the Houston Rockets played the Golden State Warriors on Monday night, became a kind of giant sleep-over as nearly 1,000 fans were allowed to stay there after the game while the storm passed and some slept in the seats.
And residents who had been under stringent water-use restrictions in 2011 during an extreme drought watched as furniture and dog bowls floated around their water-logged homes.
Flooding brought Houston to a near-standstill Tuesday and killed at least four people here, sending normally tame rivers and bayous surging past their banks, inundating streets and homes, and leaving roads littered with hundreds of abandoned, ruined cars.
Related Coverage
Photo
Stranded drivers on Interstate 45 in Houston on Tuesday after flooding turned a section of the highway into a lake. Credit Cody Duty/Houston Chronicle, via Associated Press
City officials said the flood-related fatalities included a man who may have had a heart attack while pushing his car out of floodwaters, and a person whose body was found inside a towed vehicle.
At least two people remained missing in Houston after a fire rescue boat on Braes Bayou that was taking people to higher ground struck something in the water and capsized. The firefighters were rescued, but a couple in their 80s on the boat were still missing.
Punishing thunderstorms over the weekend in Texas and Oklahoma left at least five other people dead, and a dozen or more missing. Recovery teams continued searching Tuesday for 12 people who were unaccounted for after a rain-swollen river carried a vacation home in Wimberley, Tex., off its foundation and slammed it into a bridge downstream.
In the Houston area, a long line of 18-wheelers diverted from a closed section of Interstate 45 and snaking through a quiet residential neighborhood of historic houses and live oaks was met by residents at their doors, offering not complaints, but bottles of water.
Advertisement
The same floodwaters that closed the highway had at least a handful of people paddle-boarding and kayaking.
“Everybody’s pretty laid-back in this town,” said Trent Stephens, 43, who proved his point Tuesday, using his inflatable stand-up paddle board to travel to his law office by navigating down the middle of Memorial Drive. The usually traffic-choked artery resembled a lake after the flooding.
“I just passed a couple of submerged cars and I had to kind of go around them so I didn’t go over the top of the vehicle,” he said. “There was somebody in a canoe or kayak on the other side.”
Floodwaters from those storms flowed downstream from central Texas into the Houston area Monday night and Tuesday morning, bolstered by as much as 10 inches of rain that fell overnight.
Advertisement
By late afternoon, Annise D. Parker, the mayor of Houston, told reporters at the city’s emergency operations center that the city was slowly getting back to normal.
“Much of Houston was unaffected by the weather, but the parts that were affected by the weather were very severely hit,” the mayor said. “We’ve had 10 days, two weeks, of steady rain, the grounds were completely saturated and there’s really been no place for the water to go.”
One family in Meyerland, a Houston neighborhood with older ranch-style houses and newer mansions, was trapped most of the morning and early afternoon in the game room atop their garage after their one-story house flooded overnight.
Michelle Blum estimated that the damage to the house and its contents from roughly four feet of water was about $500,000.
Photo
Residents at an apartment complex in Houston. Credit Michael Stravato for The New York Times
“We’re trying to stay positive for the kids, because we’ve never experienced this kind of disaster before,” Ms. Blum said in a telephone interview while she, her husband, her four children and their dog waited for the water to recede.
Houston’s Metro mass transit system suspended all rail and bus service for a time, and the Houston Independent School District, with more than 215,000 students, closed all of its schools and offices Tuesday. More than 750 abandoned vehicles were towed to city lots, officials said, and an estimated 4,000 homes had significant damage.
“As far as flooding is concerned, this ranks right up there with Allison,” Gov. Greg Abbott, who toured some of the damaged neighborhoods by helicopter, said, referring to Tropical Storm Allison, which caused 22 deaths in the Houston region in June 2001.
In downtown Houston, Buffalo Bayou surged far above its banks, and street overpass signs warning drivers of a 13- to 14-foot clearance were underwater. A popular hiking trail off Interstate 10 outside downtown turned into a fast-moving river.
North of downtown, fast-rising water trapped many cars on Interstate 45; drivers seeking higher ground edged their vehicles onto shoulders and grassy slopes off the highway, to no avail, then abandoned them. Some overpasses turned into islands, with vehicles crowded onto them as motorists waited for the water to recede.
Officials said they were cautiously optimistic that the worst of the storms was behind them. By 4 p.m. Tuesday, all of the bayous that had flooded were receding. The Houston Independent School District announced that all but one of its nearly 300 schools would reopen Wednesday.
“We believe we’re going to get a break from the weather,” said Ms. Parker, the mayor. “We looked at the radar right now and it’s sort of the typical summer weather pattern, with brief pop-up thunderstorms. If we can avoid any significant precipitation over the next 24 to 48 hours, the bayous will be completely back in their banks and able to handle what’s coming next.”
Over the past three weeks, torrential rains have filled lakes and reservoirs, putting an abrupt end to a drought that had plagued much of Texas for five years, though underground aquifers will be slower to recover. Brian Fuchs, a climatologist at the National Drought Mitigation Center at the University of Nebraska, said 72 percent of Texas was in a drought a year ago, and 43 percent of the state three months ago. He expected that to possibly drop to single digits this week.
Advertisement
“To see anything like this outside of the tropics is just amazing,” he said.
In Meyerland, Zac Laviage, 9, and his family’s two dogs, Nola and Rugby, rode out much of the storm on the top bunk of his and his older brother’s bunk bed. His brother, Morgan, 13, was at a sleepover at a friend’s house in another part of town, so the top bunk provided the perfect high-ground perch as the waters in the house reached about three feet high.
“He can sleep through anything, and he literally slept through it all,” said Jason Laviage, Zac’s father. “We did raise him from the lower bunk to the top bunk around 2 o’clock. The bottom bunk was literally under water.”
As the rain started falling, Mr. Laviage said he did not think much of it. In a city known as the Bayou City, its many bayous and waterways often swell in rainstorms. “I honestly thought, worse-case scenario, we’d have some towels by the front door, we’d soak it up and we’d call it a night,” he said. But it kept getting worse, and the waters kept rising, inching toward the patio and then seeping into the house.
At one point, the two hungry dogs went into the utility room and found their food bowls afloat. Later in the morning, there was a canine extraction. The dogs were taken to a neighbor’s house on the most dependable means of transit in the neighborhood, swimming-pool rafts.
“A word that comes to mind,” Mr. Laviage said, “is surreal.”
Manny Fernandez reported from Houston, and Richard Pérez-Peña from New York. Melissa Gaskill contributed reporting from Austin, Tex., and Michelle O’Donnell from Houston.
Loading...

