Ted Cruz super PACs claim to have raised $31 million
U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) speaks to a crowd gathered at Liberty University to announce his presidential candidacy March 23, 2015 in Lynchburg, Virginia. Mark Wilson, Getty Images
Less  than three weeks after Sen. Ted Cruz announced his bid for the Republican presidential nomination , a group of super PACs is claiming to  have raised $31 million for the conservative firebrand.
The  treasurer for three of the four super PACs told Bloomberg and the New York Times that the groups (all called "Keep the Promise" or some  variation of that) will have the money in the bank by the end of the  week. The claim is effectively unverifiable at this point, since super  PACs don't have to file campaign disclosures with the Federal Election  Commission until July.
If  these groups have indeed raised $31 million, it could significantly  change expectations for the Republican primaries. The large sum could  put the Cruz campaign on the same financial playing field as the  establishment candidates, like former Gov. Jeb Bush, who are expected to  easily tap into traditional donor networks. Bush super PAC fundraisers  have said they hoped to raise $100 million in the first quarter of the  year. In 2012, Mitt Romney's super PAC, Restore Our Future, spent $43 million for his entire primary campaign.
The  New York Times reports that the group of super PACs will give certain  deep-pocketed donors more say over how their dollars are spent, whether  it's on television advertising, voter turnout efforts or other campaign  activities. The National Review reports that one such donor is Robert  Mercer, a billionaire hedge fund investor.
© 2015 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured in Politics
Watch CBSN Live
Watch CBS News anytime, anywhere with the new 24/7 digital news network.  Stream CBSN live or on demand for FREE on your TV, computer, tablet, or smartphone.
New Android App
For your Android phone and tablet, download the FREE redesigned app, featuring CBSN, live 24/7 news.
All rights reserved.

