Advertisement-content continues below
The National Rifle Association pointed out that Arkansas and Montana also allow concealed carry, but not in the entirety of their respective states. The map below shows the states that allow concealed carry (before the Kansas law goes into effect):
National Rifle Association
“We’re saying that if you want to do that in this state, then you don’t have to get the permission slip from the government,” Brownback said during the bill signing Thursday. “It is a constitutional right, and we’re removing a barrier to that right.” Along with the NRA, the legislation had the support of the Kansas State Rifle Association .
A statement on the KSRA website says:
Advertisement-content continues below
In Kansas, it is already legal to carry a firearm openly, as long as the individual is not prohibited by law from possessing a firearm. However, under current law, if a firearm becomes covered by a coat or if a woman prefers to carry a firearm for self-protection in her purse, one would need to possess a concealed carry permit.
This Constitutional Carry legislation gives Kansans the freedom to choose the best method of carrying for them, based on their attire, gender and/or physical attributes
Still, the new law was not without its skeptics, specifically with regard to the training requirement that the new bill does away with. “That’s a major responsibility to carry a gun, whether it’s concealed or not. And it’s scary,” Democratic state Sen. Oletha Faust-Goudeau told The Kansas City Star Thursday. “I predict from the legislation that — and it’s going to go quick, it’s going to be July 1 — we’re going to see some accidents, possibly deaths.
But state Rep. Travis Couture-Lovelady, a Republican who sponsored the House bill, quickly dismissed those concerns. “We haven’t had any of the Wild West shootouts. We haven’t had any of the blood running in the streets that folks feared,” he said. “Training is an ongoing, personal responsibility. It’s not something the government can mandate… It’s not a ‘one size fits all’ when you talk about the lifestyle of carrying a gun.”
Email
Email*
Facebook
Comments
comments
About the Author James Beattie
James is a reporter for Western Journalism.  Originally from northern New Jersey, James comes to Western with a wide variety of experiences that include but are certainly not limited to: answering 911 calls, exploring the mighty Adirondacks, running for public office in his hometown, and working as a former radio producer.  He is an Eagle Scout.  He has also lived in the Washington, DC area, and attends St. Rose Philippine Duchesne R.C. Church in Anthem, AZ.  James is a longtime fan of the New Jersey Devils, New York Mets, New York Giants, and a recent fan of Tottenham Hotspur.
Don’t Miss Out Ever. Subscribe To Get It First
Email
Email*
Facebook
Trending

