Updated May 26, 2015 at 8:33 pm
Quarterback Marcus Mariota didn’t have to worry about huddling up to call plays at Oregon, but huddles are one adjustment the Heisman Trophy winner has to make as a Tennessee Titans rookie.
The Associated Press
NASHVILLE, Tenn. – Quarterback Marcus Mariota didn’t have to worry about huddling up to call plays at Oregon — he and the Ducks simply glanced to the sideline for what to run next.
But with the Tennessee Titans, it’s up to the Heisman Trophy winner to be part of a huddle and call a play only he has received from the sideline. The play can be as short as three words or as long as 11.
“For me, learning a whole new system, I have to go over it constantly so that I know what’s going in,” rookie Mariota said.
Mariota showed his command Tuesday as the Titans took the field for their first organized workout this offseason.
Most Read Stories
“He’s obviously comfortable doing that,” coach Ken Whisenhunt said of the second player taken in the draft last month. “He fits naturally in there.”
NFL quarterbacks get plays called into their helmets from a coach on the other end of the radio; the Titans have given Mariota a wristband as a backup aid for calling plays.
“He works very hard at it outside of his time here, so I think the biggest thing is just time with him,” Whisenhunt said.
Notes
• Jacksonville defensive end Chris Clemons skipped the first day of organized team activities.
Clemons, 33, also had skipped voluntary OTAs last year in Jacksonville and previously with the Seahawks. He was the only player missing from the Jaguars’ 90-man roster.
• All-Pro outside linebacker Justin Houston, 26, wasn’t at the first day of Kansas City OTAs. He has yet to sign a nonexclusive franchise tender and is seeking a long-team contract.
• San Francisco quarterback Colin Kaepernick has apologized for a post on social media that referenced flood-ravaged Houston, where the 49ers open the exhibition season Aug. 15.
Kaepernick, who wears jersey No. 7, had posted on Twitter and Instagram a photo of submerged cars and this message: “I warned you the #7torms Coming !!! #Houston.”
Kaepernick later issued a statement that began: “I’m so sorry about my insensitive post earlier today.”
Seahawks QB Russell Wilson wrote on Twitter: “Praying for all the people in Houston… Healing is on the way!”
Seattle Times Staff
Weekend getaways

