Michele Bachmann compares Barack Obama with Germanwings co-pilot Andreas Lubitz
Former White House hopeful is deluged with complaints after taking to Facebook    to post offensive rant against White House Iran policy
Right wing U.S. politician Michele Bachmann Photo: om Williams/CQ Roll Call/Gety Images
By Rob Crilly , New York
6:57PM BST 04 Apr 2015
Even by Michele Bachmann's extraordinary standards of liberal-baiting or gaffe making – depending on your point of view - the Tea Party queen and former White House hopeful has surpassed herself.
In possibly her most offensive comments to date, the Republican politician has compared Barack Obama with Andreas Lubitz, the suicidal Germanwings co-pilot
“With his Iran deal, Barack Obama is for the 300 million souls of the United States what Andreas Lubitz was for the 150 souls on the German Wings flight - a deranged pilot flying his entire nation into the rocks,” she posted on her Facebook page as talks in Lausanne neared their climax.
“After the fact, among the smouldering remains of American cities, the shocked survivors will ask, why did he do it?”
Reaction was swift and near unanimous. Germans, Americans and other nationalities all added their outrage in comments posted on her page.
Al Ehks wrote: “As a German who was deeply affected by the Germanwings crash last week, I have to ask you what on Earth gives you the right to compare the US president to Andreas Lubitz?”
Action Press/Rex Features
Jason Sikes said: “I'm embarrassed for this country that you were ever elected to higher office.”
Mrs Bachman has been a blunt critic of US attempts at find a deal with Iran over its nuclear programme. She claimed she used last year's White House Christmas Party as a chance to pass her wisdom directly to Mr Obama himself.
“I turned to the president and I said, something to the effect of, 'Mr. President, you need to bomb the Iranian nuclear facilities, because if you don't, Iran will have a nuclear weapon on your watch and the course of world history will change,'" she said.
A stele and flowers laid in memory of the victims are placed in the area where the Germanwings jetliner crashed in the French Alps, in Le Vernet, France (Christopher Ena/AP)
Mrs Bachmann stepped down as a member of Congress for Minnesota at the start of the year, after an unsuccessful bid to secure the Republican nomination for the 2012 election.
She distinguished her campaign with a serious of gaffes.
With her disappearance from the national scene, many thought they had detected the real reason for her Iran outburst.
"Posting outrageous things in a pathetic attempt to stay relevant?" posted Lynda Anderson.
Top news galleries
 
 
 
 

