Legislation would provide college programs, employment opportunities for intellectually disabled
Published  9:50 AM EDT Apr 06, 2015
Photos
State Senate President Andy Gardiner's experience rearing a son with Down syndrome has led to a package of legislation that could put Florida on the cutting edge in education, savings and employment opportunities for the intellectually disabled.
A half-dozen pieces of legislation that passed the Senate last week would provide a tax-free savings plan, college programs and expanded employment opportunities for the intellectually disabled. Companion bills are advancing in the state House.
Gardiner said he hopes to change society's perception of the abilities of children like his son, Andrew Jr., now 11.
1 of 12
Corrupt States - Generic
A new study  from researchers at the University of Hong Kong and the Indiana University estimates that corruption is costing Americans in the 10 most corrupt states an average of $1,308 per year, or 5.2 percent of those states’ average expenditures per year. Researchers studied more than 25,000 convictions of public officials for violation of federal corruption laws between 1976 and 2008 as well as patterns in state spending. Take a look at the 10 worst states for corruption:
The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.
12min
Part of Orange Blossom Trail was shut down early Monday morning after a car crashed into a building, according to the Orange County Fire Department.
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

