Jackson: A defiant Menendez returning to D.C.
April 12, 2015, 10:41 PM    Last updated: Sunday, April 12, 2015, 10:43 PM
By Herb Jackson
Sen. Bob Menendez frowned Sunday when asked if a 14-count indictment accusing him of bribery and false statements means he betrayed the public trust.
“Absolutely not,” he declared to the “Fox News Sunday” camera, accusing prosecutors of taking “snippets of a story to make their case” and promising the whole story would come out in court.
“When all the facts are known, I know that I will be vindicated,” Menendez said.
In his first television interview since the April 1 indictment, Menendez made no revelations. But he telegraphed what his strategy may be as he returns to Congress this week and faces questions from the media about the case: Profess innocence, denounce prosecutors and leave detailed answers to some future date in court.
“He will not be running from reporters. It’s not his style,” spokeswoman Tricia Enright said last week. “Nevertheless, because this case is now in the courts, he won’t be able to say anything about it more than he has already.”
Whether the indictment hinders Menendez’s effectiveness as a senator remains to be seen. Fellow Democrats in New Jersey have thrown significant support behind him, and the official Republican response in Washington has been aimed primarily at other Democrats who received contributions from Menendez or co-defendant Salomon Melgen, who has also pleaded not guilty.
That may be because Menendez occupies an unusual place in politics right now. He is a hard-edged Democratic partisan, but he is also one of President Obama’s chief Democratic critics on policy regarding Cuba and Iran.
Those issues will be on the front burner when Congress reconvenes today, and because he is the former chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Menendez’s criticism helps Republicans argue that their opposition to Obama policies is not partisan.
Menendez’s plans for the coming weeks include unveiling legislation to block offshore drilling that could affect the Jersey Shore and convening the first meeting of a task force on flood insurance that includes insurance industry representatives and officials of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
But he will also quickly find out that things have changed since the April 1 indictment.
Menendez is co-sponsor with Tennessee Republican Sen. Bob Corker of a bill that would give the Senate a chance to vote on any agreement on Iran’s nuclear program reached by the United States and other world powers. That bill is scheduled for a hearing on Tuesday in the Foreign Relations Committee, which Corker leads, and Menendez is said to be trying to line up enough Democratic support that the Senate could override an expected veto from Obama.
“I’m not backing off,” Menendez told “Fox News Sunday.”
When Menendez walks into that hearing Tuesday, he’ll have to sit in a different chair because he gave up his role as the committee’s top-ranking Democrat when he was indicted. Filling the seat now will be Sen. Ben Cardin of Maryland.
The two Democrats showed their differences last week when news broke that the State Department was preparing to recommend that Cuba be removed from the list of state sponsors of terrorism. What Cardin on Thursday called “a unique opportunity to begin a fresh chapter with Cuba,” Menendez, whose parents fled Cuba before Fidel Castro took power, called “another significant misstep in a misguided policy.”
Going forward, Menendez may find that fellow senators are not eager to stand next to him at news conferences for a while, but he is not likely to be shunned by colleagues, said Ross Baker, a Rutgers University political scientist who has studied Congress.
“I think every senator can put himself in Menendez’s place,” Baker said. “If indictments lead to conviction, I think people will feel differently about it. But there can be a political angle to an indictment. They can be done as an act of political sabotage, and every senator knows he can be the target of that, even the most publicly virtuous of them.”
Fueling that attitude are two previous indictments of senators. Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, was indicted and convicted in 2008 on charges he concealed gifts from a friend who was a millionaire oil contractor, but the conviction was ultimately thrown out because of prosecutorial misconduct.
Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, was indicted shortly after she took office in 1993 on charges of official misconduct and use of state equipment and employees for her election campaign. She was acquitted shortly after her trial began, and reporters who covered Congress at the time said she was widely seen as more of a victim than a felon because the state prosecutor had a record of taking personal cases to trial.
Menendez, 61, of Paramus, is accused of accepting bribes to use his office to promote the personal and business interests of Melgen, 60, of North Palm Beach, Fla.
Melgen is a wealthy eye specialist and friend of the senator, and the indictment says he provided private jet travel, lavish accommodations and nearly $800,000 in campaign contributions to get Menendez’s help with a Dominican security contract, visas for foreign girlfriends and $8.9 million worth of disputed Medicare reimbursements.
The case has been under investigation by the Justice Department for more than two years, meaning Menendez has faced, and survived, several rounds of media scrutiny as developments in the case became public.
Like Hutchison, Menendez is seen by some as a victim, especially because of the unusual news leaks over the past month that the indictment was coming. Some Republicans who have been frequent critics of Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder suggested the leaks and perhaps the investigation were retribution for Menendez’s opposition on Iran and Cuba. Menendez’s supporters have nurtured the suggestions.
Asked about it on “Fox News Sunday,” Menendez downplayed any conspiracy while also subtly reaffirming the basis for it.
“It’s very clear that I have very strong views about democracy and human rights in Cuba and … a very clear concern to the national interests and security of the United States and our ally, the state of Israel, about Iran and its nuclear weapon ambitions,” Menendez said. “But I cannot imagine that an administration — this or any other — would go to such lengths and undermine our constitutional democracy.”
Email: jackson@northjersey.com Blog: northjersey.com/thepoliticalstate
Tags:

