26 May 2015
27 May 2015
Several days ago, Google approved T-Mobile of rolling out the Android 5.1.1 update for the Nexus 6. What makes this special is that these smartphones will have Wi-Fi calling, along with a lot of their bugs being fixed. However, this is only limited to T-Mobile.
Website Techno Buffalo reports that in order to receive the 5.1.1 Lollipop update, you need the 5.1. If you haven’t already, you better do so quickly. And according to the website, Product Evangelist at T-Mobile reported that , ““If all goes well, T-Mobile will continue to make Android 5.1.1 available to more Nexus 6 owners over the coming weeks.”
So why wait for something like this to come out? Website Android Headlines has the answer to that. They noted that the, “The Nexus 6 is actually the last Nexus device to receive the Android 5.1.1 update. As the Nexus 9, Nexus 7, Nexus 5, Nexus 4, and Nexus Player have all received their Android 5.1.1 update.” They followed this up with the fact that, “the delay was likely due to T-Mobile trying to get WiFi Calling going, which was actually a feature that T-Mobile and Google announced along with the Nexus 6 last fall with Android 5.0 Lollipop.”
However, Android Headlines observed something that surprised them. They said, “It’s surprising to see Android 5.1.1 getting its factory image today for the Nexus 6, when we are just days away from Google I/O.” for those who don’t know, it’s the Google I/O conference that’s being held this Thursday and Friday at the Moscone Center in San Francisco, California. Here, the Android M will make an appearance.
It’ll be interesting to see what develops over the next couple days. Android Headlines is right in pointing out that Android 5.1.1 was getting it’s image from the Nexus 6. Was Google trying to show off a little early? It’s a little odd that the Nexus 6 would only be available for T-Mobile too.  What are your thoughts on this?
2
SHARES
Chris Carlson
Hello fellow viewers, I'm Chris Carlson and I'll be your guide for everything that is technology. If there is something new out there, you'll know that I'll find it.
You Might Also Like
Help me at iran
on Factory Reset option is not working properly on Android Devices
One might think that a "factory reset" reverses the device to the factory state. But with Android this means the last system version installed with user data removed, hopefully erased.…
Yet another betrayal from our "first do evil" leader Google.
Conventional wisdom among computer enthusiasts tells us that considerable overwriting of the flash memory is required to completely eradicate old files. Usually one must purchase software written exclusively for the…
brainless review
Search for:
Featured Posts
GADGETS SMARTPHONES
Our Authors
Tech Gadget Central is aiming to satisfy the needs of all tech-savvy readers out there. Our goal is to bring clean, reliable news from the mobile industry, and report on any new gadgets that emerge out there. As we live in a world centered around technology (mobile or otherwise), we consider it’s important to be up-to-date with what’s going on.
Pages
SHARE
T-Mobile Only Nexus 6 Getting the 5.1.1

