NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
Inside
Photo
Supporters of the challenger, Jesus G. Garcia, known as Chuy, at a rally in a Chicago church on Saturday. A runoff election is to be held Tuesday. Credit Joshua Lott for The New York Times
CHICAGO —  An exuberant crowd that included public-school teachers, union bus drivers and nursing home workers packed into New Mount Pilgrim Missionary Baptist Church on this city’s West Side on Saturday afternoon as Karen Lewis, the president of the Chicago Teachers Union, issued an urgent plea.
“I am asking you, I am begging you, and — in my teacher voice — I am telling you, go vote,” Ms. Lewis, who wore a “Chuy” button on each lapel, called out, as a cheer rose through the high-ceilinged church. “Go vote!” she called out again. “Go vote!”
Photo
Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, second from right, with an alderman as his security detail waited for him last week. Credit Joshua Lott for The New York Times
For decades, this city’s elections were dominated by a Democratic political machine — armies of patronage government workers who could be counted on to get their neighbors out to vote. But a series of legal decrees and anticorruption investigations as recently as a decade ago have dismantled that reliable political muscle in many wards, raising a question that rarely had to be asked around here: How exactly do you win an election in Chicago anymore?
Mr. Emanuel, who has raised more than $18 million, far more than his opponent, has blitzed the airwaves, which may help explain a Chicago Tribune poll last week that suggested he had opened a substantive lead. And Mr. Emanuel’s campaign is running a sophisticated field organization in the neighborhoods, including on-the-ground help, office space and phone calls by supportive aldermen. Some aides say the operation has ramped up significantly since six weeks ago, when it was not enough to capture more than 50 percent of the vote, forcing the city’s first runoff election since it began holding nonpartisan mayor’s contests 16 years ago.
Mr. Garcia has turned to a handful of independent progressive groups, but mainly to organized labor, which was out in force across the city over the weekend knocking on doors, holding phone banks, gathering lists of volunteers for Election Day and arranging rides to the polls.
“This being the first runoff we’ve ever had, there is no model to go on,” said Ricardo Muñoz, a city alderman who backed Mr. Garcia and said he saw labor as an important piece of a larger puzzle for winning votes here now. “We’re trying to invent the wheel here.”
Less understood, though, is that labor is by no means speaking with one voice in this race. Mr. Emanuel has his own cast of union backers, more than 70 locals among 15 unions, which he proudly listed in an interview. Among them: firefighters, hospitality workers, carpenters, painters, laborers, pipe fitters and plumbers.
“In a postmachine world, they matter a lot,” a top Emanuel campaign strategist said of unions. “They’re a huge piece of our campaign strategy.” Notably, the Tribune poll found Mr. Garcia trailing Mr. Emanuel among union households, 47 percent to 39 percent.
The split in labor has come as a shock to some of Mr. Emanuel’s sharpest critics, who view him as an anti-union mayor whose clashes with teachers were so intense that they called the city’s first schools strike in a quarter-century, and whose efforts to require some city workers to pay more for pension benefits and to reduce the size of benefit increases were seen as a shot across the bow. Mr. Emanuel’s history did not help. Union leaders here frequently recall his role in helping win approval for the North American Free Trade Agreement in the 1990s.
Jim Sweeney, the president of Local 150 of the International Union of Operating Engineers, said his group was among those that endorsed Mr. Emanuel’s opponent when he first ran for mayor in 2011. Over the weekend, though, his union was working on behalf of Mr. Emanuel, holding phone banks and get-out-the-vote canvasses in an effort to reach 147,000 voters in union households.
“It really just is about how he evolved over the last four years,” said Mr. Sweeney, who four years ago sharply criticized Mr. Emanuel over his part in Nafta.
He said Mr. Emanuel had negotiated with his union over proposed pension changes and, at another point, agreed to standards for cranes that suited his workers’ safety concerns. “For us, the discussion just came back to: The economy is doing good in the city, and the mayor’s done the right things.”
Several other prominent union groups, including the Chicago Federation of Labor and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, have stayed neutral. And the election led to a split among Service Employees International Union groups, with leaders of one local filing a complaint against another after it provided help to Mr. Garcia though the union’s state council had, at the time, chosen to stay neutral. After the election in February and meetings with both candidates, the state council changed its mind and threw its official backing to Mr. Garcia, though not every local agreed.
“Patronage was a system that really gave politicians a built-in political operation,” said Tom Balanoff, the president of the state council as well as the union’s Local 1, which includes janitors, food service workers and security officers. “In that sense, none of the politicians have an operation anymore. Who fills that void? There’s not many institutions that can. We can.”
Yet without a unified voice, strategists here said, labor’s role may go only so far on Tuesday — with get-out-the-vote efforts from pro-Garcia unions potentially canceled out by similar efforts from pro-Emanuel unions. “Labor is never stronger than when it’s unified,” said Anders Lindall, a spokesman for Afscme Council 31.
In a largely Latino neighborhood on the city’s Southwest Side, canvassers from the Service Employees International Union walked door to door through a bitter wind on Friday afternoon, urging voters they had identified as likely to support Mr. Garcia to vote early. By the end of early voting, more than 140,000 ballots had been cast across the city, nearly 50,000 more than in the February election and nearly twice as many as four years ago.
Along a quiet, bungalow-lined street, the conversations were mostly warm and enthusiastic. “Chuy” signs already dotted windows and lawns. “We can make history in Chicago,” Daisy Navar, a member of the union, told a resident in Spanish, who promised to go to the polls and try to bring friends to elect the city’s first Latino mayor.
Another union member called out to a man as he passed, inquiring if he, too, would help Mr. Garcia. “I’m voting for Rahm,” the man called back, “for standing up to the teachers union. They have too much power.”
Loading...

