The Salt Lake Tribune
First Published 45 minutes ago    •    Updated 1 minute ago
President Barack Obama walks down the steps of Air Force One after arrival at Hill Air Force Base on Thursday, April 2, 2015, in Utah. Obama will speak at Hill Air Force Base on Friday. (AP Photo/Kim Raff)
President Barack Obama walks down the steps of Air Force One after arrival at Hill Air Force Base on Thursday, April 2, 2015, in Utah. Obama will speak at Hill Air Force Base on Friday. (AP Photo/Kim Raff)
ARTICLE PHOTO GALLERY (3)
Using a Utah stage, President Barack Obama prepared Friday to announce programs to reduce pollution and battle climate change by producing more solar energy. It also aims to create tens of thousands of new jobs, especially for veterans.
He planned to outline such action in a speech at Hill Air Force Base at 11 a.m., after a round-table on clean energy there at 10:15.
That comes after Obama spent the night in Utah, where he met privately in Salt Lake City with LDS Church leaders, Gov. Gary Herbert and other officials.
Dan Utech, deputy special assistant to the president for energy and climate change, said Obama is announcing the steps today because "as the president has stated, no challenge poses a greater threat to our future generations than climate change," and his proposals will help "reduce carbon pollution."
TOP JOBS
VIDEOS
Obama chose Hill Air Force Base to announce his new solar energy plans, in part, because that base "has already taken leadership by installing solar panels on site," which more bases will soon copy, according to a White House fact sheet.
Hill will become one of 10 bases nationally where service members about to leave the military will have an option for accelerated training in the solar energy field to help them find jobs when they become civilians.
Also, White House press secretary Josh Earnest told The Salt Lake Tribune that Utah was chosen for the speech because it "is an example of a state that has made smart investments in clean energy and has yielded great benefits for the economy."
He added, "This is something the president has advocated in Washington, D.C., and he has not been able to make much progress, or at least as much progress as we would like, because these are proposals that are opposed by Republicans in Washington even though Republicans in Utah had deployed them to good effect."
The White House said that among announcements that Obama will makes are setting new Energy Department goals to train 75,000 people to enter the solar energy industry by 2020, many of whom will be veterans.
He will also announce a new "Solar Ready Vets" program. The Defense Department will work with the Energy Department to install more solar panels at 10 bases nationally — including at Hill — and offer accelerated training for members of the military about to enter civilian life on how to do the work.
At Hill, "Solar job training courses will begin there this fall," said Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, deputy secretary of the Department of Energy.
She said the program will help departing military members use skills acquired through their service to "learn how to size and install solar panels, connect electricity to the grid, and interpret and comply with local building codes."
The White House also said the Department of Veterans Affairs is committing to work with the Energy Department and states to approve GI bill funding to help pay for the Solar Ready Vets initiative training.
The president also is to announce that the Labor and Defense departments would work to help transitioning service members learn about solar workforce training programs available to them in their last months of military service.
Utech said the solar power industry is growing rapidly. "Solar generation double last year alone, and has increased 20-fold from 2008 to 2014."
He added, "This is all great news for cutting carbon pollution and combating climate change. But it is also creating jobs, good-paying American jobs. In fact, today's solar industry is adding jobs 10 times faster than the rest of the economy."
Salt Lake Community College is the lead institution for the Rocky Mountain Solar Provider Training Program. Judy Fisher, coordinator for that program, worked with Marines at Camp Pendleton, Calif., who just completed a pilot project for such training.
 
 
POPULAR STORIES

