BizFinder Local
 
 
 
After years of secret negotiations influenced by the world’s largest corporations, we are just weeks away from the turning point in the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.
The TPP is built upon the foundation of the failed NAFTA and Korea “free trade” agreements. It incorporates all their shortcomings, which directly led to the loss of 743,000 American jobs and put downward pressure on wages in a wide variety of occupations. The new provisions will make it easier for corporations to challenge our labor, environmental and consumer protection laws, and even threaten state land use regulations and forest policy in tribunals that would be beyond the reach of U.S. law.
This deal hinges on whether a U.S. Senate committee can advance what’s known as fast track authority, which gives the president the tools he needs to push through massive trade deals with little to no input from Congress.
Obama administration officials have publicly stated they have the votes to make this happen. I am writing to urge citizens to help me prove them wrong. If enough people speak up, we can defeat fast track authority, and ultimately, we can kill the TPP.
Here’s what happens if Congress gives the administration what it wants.
Under fast track authority, Congress would give up its power to make any changes to trade deals such as protecting working families or keeping environmental protections in place.
Congress would also be forced to vote on a completed trade deal within 90 days, without making any changes.
With fast track authority in place, the administration could then enter into the TPP, the largest trade agreement in history. It involves 12 countries that control 40 percent of the global economy. The deal is massive, and would allow the biggest corporations to chase the lowest wages and loosest regulations around the Pacific Rim.
This race to the bottom would be the nail in the coffin for American manufacturing and many other family-wage jobs. After all, why pay workers a living wage here in the U.S. when you can pay pennies on the dollar in places such as Vietnam or Malaysia?
How do we know the TPP is a bad deal for American jobs? Because we have the data to prove it.
Twenty years ago, NAFTA supporters promised us that a trade partnership between the U.S., Mexico and Canada would be a huge boon for our economy by creating new opportunities for workers, farmers and businesses. But numbers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics paint a much different picture. Between 1998 and 2013 the U.S. lost 5.7 million manufacturing jobs, a domino effect driven by failed trade policies that made outsourcing jobs far too lucrative and far too common.
So yes, NAFTA created “new opportunities,” but not for American workers. Many corporations moved their manufacturing just across the U.S.-Mexico border to free trade zones known as maquiladoras, where they could exploit cheap labor and pollute the environment without government restraint.
Politicians from both sides of the aisle bemoan the loss of American jobs and vow to fight for the middle class.
Well, this trade deal is a good test of whether they truly work for the average American, or whether they are willing to allow corporate interests to prevail in the unending quest for even greater profits at the expense of U.S. workers, the environment and our consumer protection laws.
After months of secrecy, manipulated data and half-truths, it’s time to draw a line in the sand and speak out against fast track authority and the inevitable TPP, which will follow in its wake. It’s our last chance to save America’s manufacturing base and family wage jobs.
 
 
Comments
 
 
Saxton departs as deputy superintendent
It’s easy to lose track of who’s who in Oregon’s education bureaucracy these days, which suggests there’s a problem. Former Gov. John Kitzhaber’s ambitious school …
The latest sounds from the increasingly successful Portland band can be heard only in concert at the moment
The first tour the Portland-­based band Fruition embarked on after forming in 2008 was quickly renamed “Detour,” because it ended up out on the road …

