The Columbus Dispatch
Customer Service
For service, call 1-877-734-7728.
For billing, call 1-866-790-7748.
Subscriptions
Advertising
To place help wanted ads, call 614-888-8888 or visit ColumbusJobs.com
For private seller and classified advertising, call 614-888-8888 or visit DispatchClassifieds.com .
For retail advertising, call 614-461-5500 or email us .
For national advertising, call 614-461-5199.
For online advertising, call 614-461-5143 or email us .
Newsroom
To send news tips, use our News Tip Form or call 614-461-5200.
Dispatch Careers
Fax 614-461-5565.
Total Access
Enjoy the convenience of home delivery plus Digital D. Sign up for our BEST VALUE today!
Online? On the go? Enjoy unlimited premium dispatch.com content plus the E-Edition for computer and iPad.
Award-winning journalism conveniently delivered to your home. Choose the custom package best suited for you!
As party backs Strickland, councilman vows to continue
Former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland would like to head off a primary challenge and focus on Sen. Rob Portman in 2016.
Your Right to Know
Even without the endorsement of the party, P.G. Sittenfeld, a Cincinnati councilman, said he will remain in the Senate race.
WASHINGTON — Cincinnati City Councilman P.G. Sittenfeld’s decision to remain in the Democratic primary for U.S. Senate despite pressure from party leaders evokes a question both parties ask themselves at least every two years.
Is it better to have a primary or not?
Sittenfeld’s backers say that the 30-year-old represents new blood at a time when Democrats, bruised, battered and graying after a dismal 2014 showing, need it. And they say he might offer Democrats their best shot at the Senate seat against incumbent Rob Portman, because Sittenfeld, unlike former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland, his primary opponent, is new enough not to have a record to attack.
“I’m afraid if Ted Strickland is our candidate and he goes unchallenged in the primary, that the general election will be about the past,” said former Ohio Democratic Party chairman and Sittenfeld backer Jim Ruvolo. “It won’t be about the future. I don’t think we can win if the election’s about the past.”
But Strickland supporters say that every minute talking about Sittenfeld is a minute that they aren’t talking about Portman. They say that Democrats need to unify behind the best candidate in 2016. They say there is too much at stake.
“It’s clear that our strongest candidate by any measure is Ted Strickland, and the most important thing in this year’s election is winning the Senate seat,” said David Leland, former Ohio Democratic Party chairman.
The Ohio Democratic Party executive committee this weekend indicated that at least the majority thought similarly. It officially endorsed Strickland over Sittenfeld during a a meeting on Saturday, joining the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, most Democratic state officeholders and former President Bill Clinton in endorsing the former governor.
Sittenfeld spokesman Dale Butland complained that the endorsement “smacks of a backroom deal orchestrated by party insiders” that “marginalizes rank-and-file Democrats.” He said Sittenfeld would stay in the race.
“We’re determined to let the people decide,” Butland said.
Democrats say the debate illustrates the fine line that Democrats are walking as they attempt to regain footing after devastating 2014 losses. Many Democrats know they need to let voters have a say, but they want to enter the general election with a candidate who is a proven winner. And they know they need fresh faces — most of the highest-profile Democratic officeholders in the state are somewhere north of 60, and Strickland is 73 — but they need to pull in a few wins, and that might require familiar faces.
Sittenfeld, who has been on the Cincinnati City Council since 2011, has shown early success in fundraising, having high-profile fundraisers in Washington and New York and pulling in $757,043 during the first three months of 2015. But with him, the benefit and the drawback are the same: He’s  untested. He’s never been in a statewide campaign before, but he doesn’t have much of a record for Republicans to attack.
Strickland, meanwhile, has a long record, and despite a devastating but close gubernatorial loss to John Kasich in 2010, is well-regarded by many Democrats. He raised $671,073 during the first quarter but also officially entered the race fully one month after Sittenfeld.
A Quinnipiac University Poll released last week indicated that Strickland is already well-known by Ohio voters. That poll had him at 48 percent to Portman’s 39 percent. In a matchup between Sittenfeld and Portman, however, Portman received 47 percent of the vote to Sittenfeld’s 24.
The former congressman and governor has rounded up a lengthy list of endorsements — everyone from Clinton to Sen. Sherrod Brown to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
Many of Strickland’s supporters have urged Sittenfeld to step down. They say Strickland is a better bet to win.
“Running for the Senate isn’t a trial heat for something else,” Leland said, calling Sittenfeld’s  candidacy “a distraction.”
But Greg Haas, former Franklin County Democratic chairman, calls the Strickland-Sittenfeld primary “Groundhog Day.”
The last time the Democrats cleared the field for a candidate, “we ended up with a candidate who didn’t have a driver’s license,” Haas said, referring to 2014 gubernatorial candidate Ed FitzGerald, who lost to Gov. Kasich by almost 31 percent. “Let’s let democracy work. Let’s bring people into the process. Let’s trust the Democratic voters.”
One of the biggest disadvantages to a primary is money. Portman has $8 million in the bank.
U.S. Rep. Joyce Beatty, D-Jefferson Township, who backs Strickland, said she worries that a primary will be “a drain on resources.” She said it will be particularly acute in 2016, when the Senate candidate must compete with presidential, judicial, congressional and local candidates for donors’ money.
Former Ohio Lt. Gov. Lee Fisher has seen the financial drain of a primary firsthand. In 2010, he ran a tightly contested primary against then-Secretary of State Jennifer Brunner, spending about $3 million. He entered the general election “flat broke,” he said. Portman beat him decisively.
“There is no question that if I had been able to conserve those resources, we would’ve been in a very strong position to compete in the fall,” he said. “But we were always playing catch-up, starting the day after the primary.”
But the 2010 race and 2016 aren’t directly comparable. Brunner and Fisher were both statewide elected officeholders.
Party establishment rallied around Fisher. Years later, Brunner is still left a little cold by the process. Too much of it, she said, is about “money, power and control.” Any sense of public service, she said, seems to be lost — and that fact is alienating the very generation Democrats need to woo to win.
Still, she seems puzzled by Sittenfeld’s decision to stick with the race.
“I’m not sure what his agenda is,” she said. “I think he risks becoming irrelevant because he’s not holding a position that people perceive as high enough to go for a Senate seat.”
The Ohio Democratic Party's executive committee Saturday endorsed former Ohio...
The Daily Briefing
The Bottom Line
The Bottom Line

