Fatal deer disease hits Michigan
Deer hunters and wildlife enthusiasts should pay close attention to deer in Ionia County after a Ingham County white-tailed deer tested positive for chronic wasting disease last week.
Comment
By Nicholas Grenke
INGHAM COUNTY, Mich.
Deer hunters and wildlife enthusiasts should pay close attention to deer in Ionia County after a Ingham County white-tailed deer tested positive for chronic wasting disease last week.
The deer was found in Meridian Township with the fatal neurological disease that affects white-tailed deer. The disease had not been found to be dangerous to humans through contact or by handling contaminated venison.
However, as a precaution, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and the World Health Organization recommend that infected animals not be consumed as food, according to a press release issued Tuesday by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources.
This is the first case of a free-ranging deer testing positive for the disease in Michigan, but in 2008 a deer from a privately owned facility in Kent County tested positive for CWD. In October 2014, a deer in Ohio tested positive for the disease for the first time.
“This is the first case of chronic wasting disease to be confirmed in a free-ranging Michigan white-tailed deer,” Michigan Department of Natural Resource Director Keith Creagh in a press release.
The Michigan DNR developed a plan to contain the disease in 2002 and the plan was updated in 2012.
The DNR has created a CWD Management Zone, which will include Clinton, Ingham and Shiawassee counties to try to stop the spread of the disease.
Stoney Creek Outdoor Properties, LLC owner, Chad Thelen said he thinks the DNR may create restrictions to Ionia County to stop the spread of the disease because of the two county's close distance.
“You will probably see restrictions on baiting does,” Thelen said. “They'll have a plan in place and we'll learn more as it gets closer to hunting season.”
In increased monitoring, part of the plan includes prohibiting road kill deers to be salvaged in Clinton, Ingham and Shiawassee counties.
The disease can take its toll on a deer population over time. According to the Michigan DNR CWD Contingency Plan, since the disease was first discovered near Boulder, Colorado, in the late 1980s, the local deer population has declined 45 percent.
However, when the disease was discovered in New York in 2005, the disease was contained, according to the Michigan DNR CWD Contingency Plan.
“I'm concerned, but there's not a whole lot you can do about it other than follow the DNR guidelines,” Thelen said. “I don't think the sky is falling.”
The DNR press release recommends that if anyone notices a deer looking sickly thin or behaving strangely to call the DNR Wildlife Disease Lab at 517-336-5030 or fill out and submit the online observation report at www.michigan.gov/dnr. To report road-kills found in the Core CWD Area, call the Wildlife Disease Hotline at 517-614-9602 during office hours.
By Nicholas Grenke
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.

