Follow us on Facebook and Twitter
RALEIGH
Some General Assembly members say it's time North Carolina native Rev. Billy Graham is honored with a statue inside the U.S. Capitol. His likeness would replace a statue remembering a former governor with links to the white supremacy movement over a century ago.
Bills filed in the state House and Senate last week ask a congressional committee to approve the replacement of the statue of former Gov. Charles Aycock for one of Graham, the Charlotte-born evangelist now living in Montreat.
Each state has two statues inside Statuary Hall. Federal law allows states to request changes.
The 96-year-old Graham has preached in more than 185 countries and territories, offering counsel to U.S. presidents and participating in presidential inaugurations. Graham was considered at the forefront of the evangelical movement of the second half of the 20th century, particularly in the use of television and other technology to spread his Christian message.
"He is someone that I think all of North Carolina can be proud of," bill sponsor Rep. Charles Jeter, R-Mecklenburg, said Friday. Jeter told WRAL-TV he contacted the Graham family and got their permission before moving forward. Jeter's district includes the Billy Graham Library in Charlotte.
Aycock was governor from 1901 to 1905 and honored as a fierce advocate of universal public education. But the Democrat also backed segregation and used racial fears during a campaign against Republicans and populists in the late 1890s.
Sen. Joel Ford, D-Mecklenburg, a co-sponsor of identical legislation in the Senate, called Aycock a "racist."
"I'm quite frankly honored to be able to sponsor a piece of legislation" to honor Graham, Ford told The Charlotte Observer ( http://bit.ly/1NYldCp ).
The bills also would create a state committee designed to select a sculptor and obtain project funds.
Praise for Aycock, who is still memorialized with a statue on the grounds of the old Capitol building in Raleigh, has diminished in recent years.
The state Democratic Party removed Aycock and Civil War Gov. Zebulon Vance from the title of an annual party gathering in Asheville. Leaders at East Carolina University in February voted to remove Aycock's name from a residence hall. A similar action occurred last year at Duke University with a dormitory bearing his name.
- Comments are automatically checked for inappropriate language, but readers might find some comments offensive or inaccurate. If you believe a comment violates our rules, click the report violation link below it.
Submitted by Archie on Mon,  04/06/2015 at 1:32 pm.
Wow!  No better way than to use an evangelist to represent an irrational way of thinking.  How about, instead of Graham, Moms Mabley or Andy Griffith, people with a bit more character.
So you think Graham being an evangelist is irrational? How about the traveling preacher, Harry Hoosier? Thanks to his irrational way of thinking we had people Black AND White who denounced racism and nicknamed themselves "Hoosiers".
Submitted by OnceALocal on Mon,  04/06/2015 at 2:04 pm.
He refused to serve his country in WWII.  No coward shines on Capitol Hill.
Separation Church and State
Comment viewing options
Select your preferred way to display the comments and click "Save settings" to activate your changes.
Please note: Threaded comments work best if you view the oldest comments first.
More articles from: News

