NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Ray McDonald in September. He was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. Credit Jeff Gross/Getty Images North America
Advertisement
In past years, the Chicago Bears might have been praised for their decision on Monday to cut Ray McDonald, who was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. The team might have been lauded for taking a tough stand on players who misbehaved off the field and discredited the N.F.L.
But the Bears have been far from congratulated. In fact, their decision has led to more questions, including why they signed McDonald in the first place.
This is 2015, and the N.F.L. spent much of last year trying to rebut criticism that it is a league incapable of taking domestic violence seriously, or unwilling to do so.
McDonald’s arrest was his third in less than a year involving domestic violence and assault. The first two cases were dropped, although the San Francisco 49ers released McDonald in December after his second arrest.
Given the heightened sensitivity to domestic violence, the Bears were immediately questioned in March for giving McDonald a one-year deal worth as much as $1.5 million.
The Bears were caught between respecting the league’s new zero tolerance for players who commit domestic violence and wanting to give a talented player — who had not been convicted of a crime — a chance to redeem himself.
The results have been messy. While the N.F.L. has strengthened its personal conduct policy, teams are grappling with the gray areas it has created.
Should teams sign players who have been accused but not convicted? Should they stay away from players who are in danger of being disciplined by the league? And what about rookies like La’el Collins and Frank Clark, who were implicated in cases before they entered the N.F.L.?
“The league has not really thought through its own message,” said Paul H. Haagen, co-director of the Center for Sports Law and Policy at Duke University. “They are definitely making it up as they go along and leaving themselves areas of discretion. But by leaving themselves discretion and not making clear what the required processes are, there is constant uncertainty and questions.”
The unintended consequences of the league’s focus on protecting its image are continuing. This week, Commissioner Roger Goodell will answer a request by the players union that he recuse himself from hearing New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady’s appeal of his suspension over underinflated footballs. Rules dictate that the union makes its request to an arbitrator, who in this case is Goodell.
Then there is Greg Hardy, the former Panthers defensive lineman who was put on paid leave last year while he appealed a conviction for domestic violence.
After the case was dropped on appeal, Hardy signed a one-year deal with the Dallas Cowboys. Goodell then suspended Hardy for 10 games because the league’s own two-month investigation found that he had used physical force against his girlfriend at least four times. On Thursday, Hardy will appeal his suspension by arguing that he was penalized under new guidelines that did not exist when he was arrested.
Advertisement
Harold Henderson, the league-appointed hearing officer, will hear Hardy’s appeal.
Hardy is following the same road as Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson, who was put on paid leave last year after he was arrested for hitting his 4-year-old son. After he pleaded no contest on Nov. 4 to reckless assault, Peterson was suspended until at least April 15 for violating the N.F.L.’s personal-conduct policy. After a league-appointed arbitrator upheld the ban, Peterson sued in federal court, where a judge overturned the arbitration ruling.
His legal battle over, Peterson has returned to the Vikings. But teams are now being routinely questioned for signing players who have legal clouds hanging over them.
This month, the Seattle Seahawks were forced to explain why they drafted Frank Clark, who was involved in a dispute that led to a fourth-degree misdemeanor verdict.
Coach Pete Carroll said that the team had done due diligence on Clark, his background growing up in a tough part of Los Angeles, and the incident.
“We went through the process and we found out what kind of kid this guy is and what happened through the process that he’s been through, and we uncovered that we have a young man that deserves an opportunity,” Carroll said. “I think he’ll continue to show you why.”
Collins, who was questioned by investigators in Louisiana about a murder, is an even muddier case. Although he was not a suspect is the case, Collins tried to pull out of the draft because of his concern about how the legal uncertainty might affect his draft selection. No team ended up choosing Collins, but the Cowboys signed him to a fully guaranteed three-year contract.
Jerry Jones, the Cowboys’ owner, said Collins was not drafted because of an “unfortunate circumstance not of his doing” and took the unusual step of holding a news conference for an undrafted free agent.
Jones is not the first owner accused of putting winning ahead of prudence. But Jodi Balsam, who teaches at Brooklyn Law School and previously worked for the N.F.L., said that while teams could not conspire to keep players off their rosters, each was being forced to learn how to do what was best for the team on the field and what was best for the team’s image off the field.
“Every sports team has the ultimate bottom line, getting wins,” Balsam said. “But fewer and fewer teams can operate that way. It’s all going to catch up to where they are going to make sure no one is going to embarrass them.”
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Bears Stumble in N.F.L.’s Quagmire on Domestic Violence . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Roundup: McDonald reportedly drunk during assault
California Highway Patrol officials released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of Ray McDonald.
Post to Facebook
Roundup: McDonald reportedly drunk during assault California Highway Patrol officials released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of Ray McDonald. Check out this story on detroitnews.com: http://detne.ws/1HvkWBs
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Roundup: McDonald reportedly drunk during assault
Associated Press 11:21 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
Ndamukong Suh gets in a clinch with fellow defensive tackle Deandre Coleman during a drill at the Dolphins OTAs.
(Photo: Wilfredo Lee / Associated Press)
CONNECT 2 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
San Francisco — California Highway Patrol officials released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of former 49ers and Bears defensive end Ray McDonald.
KRON-TV reported Tuesday a woman, mother of the alleged victim, says McDonald was drunk when she called authorities before dawn Monday.
McDonald was later arrested at a San Jose home on suspicion of assaulting a woman who was holding the couple's baby. McDonald was released on bail, facing misdemeanor charges of domestic violence and child endangerment
The caller says she wasn't at the home but that her daughter told her to call police, according to the audio.
Later in the day the Bears released McDonald.
The arrest follows a pattern of similar incidents.
McDonald's agent Tom Condon has not returned multiple calls seeking comment.
Suh at Dolphins OTAs
Dolphins attendance is on the rise. Ndamukong Suh showed up for practice Tuesday.
The $114 million defensive tackle, signed from the Lions as a free agent, drew attention for his absence from offseason training sessions in recent weeks, but was on the field with the rest of his new teammates for the Dolphins first organized team activity.
Like the training sessions, attending OTAs is voluntary but strongly encouraged by coaches. Taking part was an easy decision, Suh said.
"It's automatic," he said. "You never miss practice. I don't miss practice."
Suh declined to discuss why he skipped the training sessions.
"Next question," he said.
Suh rarely attended OTAs when he was with the Lions.
More OTA news
All-Pro outside linebacker Justin Houston, who has not signed a non-exclusive franchise tender, was among nine players not present for Chiefs workouts.
Houston, who is seeking a long-term contract, also did not report April 20 for the start of the offseason workout program for the Chiefs.
... Russell Wilson, Jimmy Graham and Cliff Avril were absent from the Seahawks OTAs for personal reasons. Michael Bennett and Bruce Irvin were just absent.
As for running back Marshawn Lynch? Well, no one expected him around anyway.
Avril, a former Lions player, posted on Instagram about the death of his father.
... Jaguars defensive end Chris Clemons skipped the first day of the team's organized team activities. Clemons was the only player missing.
Personnel dept.
The Cowboys signed receiver A.J. Jenkins, a former first-round pick of the 49ers.
Sam greets Montreal
Michael Sam says his only priority is helping the Montreal Alouettes win, not by making history as the first openly gay football player in the Canadian Football League.
Sam signed a two-year deal with the Alouettes last week.
"I'm not trying to really do anything historic here by being with Montreal, I'm just trying to help the team win some games so we can bring the Grey Cup back home," Sam said at a packed news conference.
Sam, 25, came out publicly before last year's NFL draft. He was selected in the seventh round by the Rams to become the first openly gay player chosen by an NFL team. The Rams cut him in training camp.

