NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Ray McDonald in September. He was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. Credit Jeff Gross/Getty Images North America
Advertisement
In past years, the Chicago Bears might have been praised for their decision on Monday to cut Ray McDonald, who was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. The team might have been lauded for taking a tough stand on players who misbehaved off the field and discredited the N.F.L.
But the Bears have been far from congratulated. In fact, their decision has led to more questions, including why they signed McDonald in the first place.
This is 2015, and the N.F.L. spent much of last year trying to rebut criticism that it is a league incapable of taking domestic violence seriously, or unwilling to do so.
McDonald’s arrest was his third in less than a year involving domestic violence and assault. The first two cases were dropped, although the San Francisco 49ers released McDonald in December after his second arrest.
Given the heightened sensitivity to domestic violence, the Bears were immediately questioned in March for giving McDonald a one-year deal worth as much as $1.5 million.
The Bears were caught between respecting the league’s new zero tolerance for players who commit domestic violence and wanting to give a talented player — who had not been convicted of a crime — a chance to redeem himself.
The results have been messy. While the N.F.L. has strengthened its personal conduct policy, teams are grappling with the gray areas it has created.
Should teams sign players who have been accused but not convicted? Should they stay away from players who are in danger of being disciplined by the league? And what about rookies like La’el Collins and Frank Clark, who were implicated in cases before they entered the N.F.L.?
“The league has not really thought through its own message,” said Paul H. Haagen, co-director of the Center for Sports Law and Policy at Duke University. “They are definitely making it up as they go along and leaving themselves areas of discretion. But by leaving themselves discretion and not making clear what the required processes are, there is constant uncertainty and questions.”
The unintended consequences of the league’s focus on protecting its image are continuing. This week, Commissioner Roger Goodell will answer a request by the players union that he recuse himself from hearing New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady’s appeal of his suspension over underinflated footballs. Rules dictate that the union makes its request to an arbitrator, who in this case is Goodell.
Then there is Greg Hardy, the former Panthers defensive lineman who was put on paid leave last year while he appealed a conviction for domestic violence.
After the case was dropped on appeal, Hardy signed a one-year deal with the Dallas Cowboys. Goodell then suspended Hardy for 10 games because the league’s own two-month investigation found that he had used physical force against his girlfriend at least four times. On Thursday, Hardy will appeal his suspension by arguing that he was penalized under new guidelines that did not exist when he was arrested.
Advertisement
Harold Henderson, the league-appointed hearing officer, will hear Hardy’s appeal.
Hardy is following the same road as Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson, who was put on paid leave last year after he was arrested for hitting his 4-year-old son. After he pleaded no contest on Nov. 4 to reckless assault, Peterson was suspended until at least April 15 for violating the N.F.L.’s personal-conduct policy. After a league-appointed arbitrator upheld the ban, Peterson sued in federal court, where a judge overturned the arbitration ruling.
His legal battle over, Peterson has returned to the Vikings. But teams are now being routinely questioned for signing players who have legal clouds hanging over them.
This month, the Seattle Seahawks were forced to explain why they drafted Frank Clark, who was involved in a dispute that led to a fourth-degree misdemeanor verdict.
Coach Pete Carroll said that the team had done due diligence on Clark, his background growing up in a tough part of Los Angeles, and the incident.
“We went through the process and we found out what kind of kid this guy is and what happened through the process that he’s been through, and we uncovered that we have a young man that deserves an opportunity,” Carroll said. “I think he’ll continue to show you why.”
Collins, who was questioned by investigators in Louisiana about a murder, is an even muddier case. Although he was not a suspect is the case, Collins tried to pull out of the draft because of his concern about how the legal uncertainty might affect his draft selection. No team ended up choosing Collins, but the Cowboys signed him to a fully guaranteed three-year contract.
Jerry Jones, the Cowboys’ owner, said Collins was not drafted because of an “unfortunate circumstance not of his doing” and took the unusual step of holding a news conference for an undrafted free agent.
Jones is not the first owner accused of putting winning ahead of prudence. But Jodi Balsam, who teaches at Brooklyn Law School and previously worked for the N.F.L., said that while teams could not conspire to keep players off their rosters, each was being forced to learn how to do what was best for the team on the field and what was best for the team’s image off the field.
“Every sports team has the ultimate bottom line, getting wins,” Balsam said. “But fewer and fewer teams can operate that way. It’s all going to catch up to where they are going to make sure no one is going to embarrass them.”
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Bears Stumble in N.F.L.’s Quagmire on Domestic Violence . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


By Robert Salonga
Related Stories
May 25:
Mar 15:
Nov 14:
Nov 13:
Oct 25:
Oct 6:
Oct 2:
Sep 27:
Sep 18:
Sep 15:
SANTA CLARA -- Police dispatch recordings reveal the early-Monday arrest of former San Francisco 49ers lineman Ray McDonald was spurred by an emergency call alleging he violently broke through a bedroom door to get to his ex-fiancée and their infant, a clash that led to his dismissal from the Chicago Bears before he ever played a single snap for his new team.
McDonald is free on $15,000 bail after he was booked on suspicion of one count each of domestic violence and child endangerment, both misdemeanors. It was the third case accusing McDonald of violence against a woman since August, when he was arrested on suspicion of domestic violence involving the same woman in Monday's allegations, when she was pregnant and they were still engaged.
Former San Francisco 49er Ray McDonald leaves the Santa Clara County main jail on Monday afternoon, May 25, 2015, in San Jose, Calif., after being arrested on suspicion of domestic violence and child endangerment.   (Karl Mondon)
In the dispatch recording, made available through a subscription-based online archive, a Los Banos woman called 911 and told emergency dispatchers that her daughter, McDonald's ex-fiancée, called to say McDonald was acting violently at her Santa Clara luxury apartment off Lick Mill Boulevard. The CHP released a redacted recording of the 911 call late Tuesday afternoon.
The 3:48 a.m. emergency call, which was relayed to Santa Clara police, also alleged that when the woman tried to barricade herself in a bedroom with the infant she had with McDonald, the 6-foot-3, 290-pound defense lineman "broke down" the door and tried to take the baby from her before leaving, by himself, in a car.
Advertisement
"She said she received a call from her daughter ... advising that her boyfriend Ray McDonald was being violent," the dispatcher said. "She tried to lock herself in her bedroom but he broke the door down ... Ex is trying to leave now with her infant."
Later in the recording, an officer said, "If he decides he wants to run, we're not going to chase, we know who he is."
Former San Francisco 49er Ray McDonald leaves the Santa Clara County main jail Monday afternoon, on Monday May 25, 2015, in San Jose, Calif., after being arrested on suspicion of domestic violence and child endangerment.  (Karl Mondon)
Santa Clara police declined comment on the audio recordings. They deferred to a news release stating their officers responded to the apartment, which was leased by McDonald, and determined that he physically assaulted his ex-fiancée while she was holding the baby. They tracked him to a San Jose home on Terra Nova Lane registered to his former teammate, recently retired 49er Justin Smith, and around 7 a.m. took McDonald into custody.
McDonald's attorney, Steve DeFilippis, acknowledged Tuesday that his client and ex-fiancée had an argument, but said he said it never became "physical.''
"From the information I have, yes, there was an argument,'' DeFilippis said. "But there was no physical contact, and if so, there was no crime.''
The clash was witnessed by McDonald's driver and the ex-fiancée apparently videotaped at least some of it, evidence that DeFilippis claimed will show McDonald never tried to imprison the woman or attack her.
"They're arguing and he gets mad and says he's leaving and says he's taking his TVs,'' DeFilippis said.
DeFilippis said the woman  had ample opportunity to leave during or after the argument if she felt unsafe.
"Something got confused between her and her mother,'' the lawyer said.
It was not clear Tuesday when Santa Clara police would forward the case to prosecutors for review.
As it stands, McDonald does not have any current criminal charges against him in the three cases that have been brought against him since an Aug. 31 clash at his birthday party at his Bentley Ridge Drive home in San Jose, which he has since put up for sale. Prosecutors cited insufficient evidence in the case after the alleged victim did not cooperate with investigators.
But in December, McDonald was accused of sexually assaulting another woman, also at the home, prompting the 49ers to dismiss him from the team. He got a second chance with the Chicago Bears, who in March signed him to a one-year, non-guaranteed $1.5 million contract to play for former 49ers defensive coordinator Vic Fangio.
It was around that time that McDonald filed a defamation suit against the woman who accused him of sexual assault. Earlier this month, the woman counter-sued McDonald and former teammate Ahmad Brooks and accused them of having sexual contact with her while she was semi-conscious after a fall by the swimming pool.
McDonald told Chicago-area media last month that he was innocent of the accusations against him, that was "trying to move foward" with the Bears, who signed him despite some initial reservations from executives about his personal conduct. After his latest arrest, he was once again without a team.
"We believe in second chances, but when we signed Ray we were very clear what our expectations were if he was to remain a Bear," General Manager Ryan Pace said in a statement Monday. "He was not able to meet the standard and the decision was made to release him."
Staff writer Tracey Kaplan contributed to this report. Contact Robert Salonga at 408-920-5002. Follow him at Twitter.com/robertsalonga .
RAY MCDONALD'S LEGAL ISSUES
May 24, 2014: San Jose police respond to a conflict at McDonald's house where his fiancée reportedly held a gun at her side.
Aug. 31: McDonald is arrested on suspicion of felony domestic violence at his San Jose home, where teammates were attending his 30th birthday party. The alleged victim was McDonald's pregnant fiancée.
Nov. 10: Prosecutors decide not to file domestic-violence charges against McDonald, citing insufficient evidence.
Dec. 17: San Jose police reveal a woman claimed she was sexually assaulted by McDonald at his home earlier in the week. Within hours, McDonald is released by the 49ers.
Mar. 16: As he launched his pursuit of another NFL job, McDonald files a defamation suit against the woman accusing him of sexual assault.
March 24: McDonald signs a one-year, non-guaranteed, $1.5 million deal with the Chicago Bears, despite initial reservations from executives, who pledged to heavily scrutinize his personal conduct.
May 25: Santa Clara police arrest McDonald on suspicion of misdemeanor domestic violence and child endangerment after an encounter at the apartment he leased for his ex-fiancée and their baby. Later in the day, the Bears release him from the team.

