NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Ray McDonald in September. He was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. Credit Jeff Gross/Getty Images North America
Advertisement
In past years, the Chicago Bears might have been praised for their decision on Monday to cut Ray McDonald, who was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. The team might have been lauded for taking a tough stand on players who misbehaved off the field and discredited the N.F.L.
But the Bears have been far from congratulated. In fact, their decision has led to more questions, including why they signed McDonald in the first place.
This is 2015, and the N.F.L. spent much of last year trying to rebut criticism that it is a league incapable of taking domestic violence seriously, or unwilling to do so.
McDonald’s arrest was his third in less than a year involving domestic violence and assault. The first two cases were dropped, although the San Francisco 49ers released McDonald in December after his second arrest.
Given the heightened sensitivity to domestic violence, the Bears were immediately questioned in March for giving McDonald a one-year deal worth as much as $1.5 million.
The Bears were caught between respecting the league’s new zero tolerance for players who commit domestic violence and wanting to give a talented player — who had not been convicted of a crime — a chance to redeem himself.
The results have been messy. While the N.F.L. has strengthened its personal conduct policy, teams are grappling with the gray areas it has created.
Should teams sign players who have been accused but not convicted? Should they stay away from players who are in danger of being disciplined by the league? And what about rookies like La’el Collins and Frank Clark, who were implicated in cases before they entered the N.F.L.?
“The league has not really thought through its own message,” said Paul H. Haagen, co-director of the Center for Sports Law and Policy at Duke University. “They are definitely making it up as they go along and leaving themselves areas of discretion. But by leaving themselves discretion and not making clear what the required processes are, there is constant uncertainty and questions.”
The unintended consequences of the league’s focus on protecting its image are continuing. This week, Commissioner Roger Goodell will answer a request by the players union that he recuse himself from hearing New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady’s appeal of his suspension over underinflated footballs. Rules dictate that the union makes its request to an arbitrator, who in this case is Goodell.
Then there is Greg Hardy, the former Panthers defensive lineman who was put on paid leave last year while he appealed a conviction for domestic violence.
After the case was dropped on appeal, Hardy signed a one-year deal with the Dallas Cowboys. Goodell then suspended Hardy for 10 games because the league’s own two-month investigation found that he had used physical force against his girlfriend at least four times. On Thursday, Hardy will appeal his suspension by arguing that he was penalized under new guidelines that did not exist when he was arrested.
Advertisement
Harold Henderson, the league-appointed hearing officer, will hear Hardy’s appeal.
Hardy is following the same road as Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson, who was put on paid leave last year after he was arrested for hitting his 4-year-old son. After he pleaded no contest on Nov. 4 to reckless assault, Peterson was suspended until at least April 15 for violating the N.F.L.’s personal-conduct policy. After a league-appointed arbitrator upheld the ban, Peterson sued in federal court, where a judge overturned the arbitration ruling.
His legal battle over, Peterson has returned to the Vikings. But teams are now being routinely questioned for signing players who have legal clouds hanging over them.
This month, the Seattle Seahawks were forced to explain why they drafted Frank Clark, who was involved in a dispute that led to a fourth-degree misdemeanor verdict.
Coach Pete Carroll said that the team had done due diligence on Clark, his background growing up in a tough part of Los Angeles, and the incident.
“We went through the process and we found out what kind of kid this guy is and what happened through the process that he’s been through, and we uncovered that we have a young man that deserves an opportunity,” Carroll said. “I think he’ll continue to show you why.”
Collins, who was questioned by investigators in Louisiana about a murder, is an even muddier case. Although he was not a suspect is the case, Collins tried to pull out of the draft because of his concern about how the legal uncertainty might affect his draft selection. No team ended up choosing Collins, but the Cowboys signed him to a fully guaranteed three-year contract.
Jerry Jones, the Cowboys’ owner, said Collins was not drafted because of an “unfortunate circumstance not of his doing” and took the unusual step of holding a news conference for an undrafted free agent.
Jones is not the first owner accused of putting winning ahead of prudence. But Jodi Balsam, who teaches at Brooklyn Law School and previously worked for the N.F.L., said that while teams could not conspire to keep players off their rosters, each was being forced to learn how to do what was best for the team on the field and what was best for the team’s image off the field.
“Every sports team has the ultimate bottom line, getting wins,” Balsam said. “But fewer and fewer teams can operate that way. It’s all going to catch up to where they are going to make sure no one is going to embarrass them.”
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Bears Stumble in N.F.L.’s Quagmire on Domestic Violence . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Published: Wednesday, May 27, 2015 12:15 a.m. CDT
Yes, the Bears got it right by cutting McDonald.
It didn’t have to be by some artificial deadline to theoretically display some new understanding of his psychopathy, but the short-lived experiment in second chances had to end now.
But before you rush to judgment of chairman George McCaskey, general manager Ryan Pace and the Bears organization, do yourself a favor and Google the story of Brian Banks.
He’s the young man from Long Beach, California, who lost his scholarship to Southern Cal to play linebacker, and instead spent 5 years in prison and the past 10 years as a registered sex offender after being falsely accused of rape by a woman, who has since completely recanted the allegation.
Spend a few minutes thinking about the living torture his life has been because nobody took the time to learn the truth about his situation.
When the Bears signed McDonald, he had been accused twice, once of domestic abuse and once of sexual assault, but after exhaustive investigations, there was no evidence to charge him in either crime.
This wasn’t Greg Hardy or Ray Rice, known to be guilty abusers of women. When the Bears signed him, McDonald was a guy who might have been a victim of circumstances.
You know what? It might turn out he’s not guilty of anything, but being incredibly stupid this time, either.
This time is different, however, because to even allow him to be in this situation again in light of past circumstances is a firing and punishable offense.
The punishment is up to the legal system. Only the firing is up to the Bears, and it happened swiftly.
The Twitter sphere already is bursting with criticism and disdain for McCaskey, and the Bears for not knowing what numerous law enforcement agencies were unable to prove or even charge.
We know McCaskey, who was a lawyer by trade before coming to work for the family business, was skeptical at first and resistant to signing him.
To my knowledge, he has no psychiatric or psychological training that should have helped him see through the façade the young man apparently was operating behind. After speaking to McDonald, his parents and the folks who work for him, McCaskey took a chance, and now it has backfired.
There is an expression in NFL front offices when it comes to deciding on players, “Who’s the guy who’s going to bang on the desk and vouch for this guy?”
In this case, that was Bears defensive coordinator Vic Fangio. He coached McDonald the past four seasons, knew him well and told us only 2 weeks ago that he vouched for McDonald, and told him if the Bears didn’t sign him, he would definitely try to help him with other teams.
Clearly, Fangio put his reputation and credability with McCaskey and Pace on the line for McDonald, not to mention his future head coaching aspirations.
If there is a real loser here it’s Fangio, not because he did anything wrong, but because he trusted a guy he shouldn’t have.
Did he look past obvious warning signs because he had to have the football player? I don’t want to believe that, and more than not wanting to, I don’t because the fact is McDonald’s not that special on the field.
Ask yourself this: Did the Bears’ signing of McDonald somehow contribute to this latest incident? Or would McDonald, unemployed, depressed and feeling deserted, have been more likely to act out again?
With the spotlight so clearly and squarely on him for the slightest of missteps, his deal with the Bears should have helped keep him straight.
If you want to criticize the Bears for their football decisions, fire away.
But on this one, aim your venom at the guy who’s guilty of squandering his second chance, not the folks who tried to help keep him clean.
Comments
Comments
Reader Poll
Have you traveled to Nachusa Grasslands to see the bison herd yet?
Yes
No, and I don't plan to go
Copyright © 2015 SaukValley.com. All rights reserved. Published in Sterling, Illinois, USA, by Shaw Media.

