NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Ray McDonald in September. He was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. Credit Jeff Gross/Getty Images North America
Advertisement
In past years, the Chicago Bears might have been praised for their decision on Monday to cut Ray McDonald, who was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. The team might have been lauded for taking a tough stand on players who misbehaved off the field and discredited the N.F.L.
But the Bears have been far from congratulated. In fact, their decision has led to more questions, including why they signed McDonald in the first place.
This is 2015, and the N.F.L. spent much of last year trying to rebut criticism that it is a league incapable of taking domestic violence seriously, or unwilling to do so.
McDonald’s arrest was his third in less than a year involving domestic violence and assault. The first two cases were dropped, although the San Francisco 49ers released McDonald in December after his second arrest.
Given the heightened sensitivity to domestic violence, the Bears were immediately questioned in March for giving McDonald a one-year deal worth as much as $1.5 million.
The Bears were caught between respecting the league’s new zero tolerance for players who commit domestic violence and wanting to give a talented player — who had not been convicted of a crime — a chance to redeem himself.
The results have been messy. While the N.F.L. has strengthened its personal conduct policy, teams are grappling with the gray areas it has created.
Should teams sign players who have been accused but not convicted? Should they stay away from players who are in danger of being disciplined by the league? And what about rookies like La’el Collins and Frank Clark, who were implicated in cases before they entered the N.F.L.?
“The league has not really thought through its own message,” said Paul H. Haagen, co-director of the Center for Sports Law and Policy at Duke University. “They are definitely making it up as they go along and leaving themselves areas of discretion. But by leaving themselves discretion and not making clear what the required processes are, there is constant uncertainty and questions.”
The unintended consequences of the league’s focus on protecting its image are continuing. This week, Commissioner Roger Goodell will answer a request by the players union that he recuse himself from hearing New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady’s appeal of his suspension over underinflated footballs. Rules dictate that the union makes its request to an arbitrator, who in this case is Goodell.
Then there is Greg Hardy, the former Panthers defensive lineman who was put on paid leave last year while he appealed a conviction for domestic violence.
After the case was dropped on appeal, Hardy signed a one-year deal with the Dallas Cowboys. Goodell then suspended Hardy for 10 games because the league’s own two-month investigation found that he had used physical force against his girlfriend at least four times. On Thursday, Hardy will appeal his suspension by arguing that he was penalized under new guidelines that did not exist when he was arrested.
Advertisement
Harold Henderson, the league-appointed hearing officer, will hear Hardy’s appeal.
Hardy is following the same road as Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson, who was put on paid leave last year after he was arrested for hitting his 4-year-old son. After he pleaded no contest on Nov. 4 to reckless assault, Peterson was suspended until at least April 15 for violating the N.F.L.’s personal-conduct policy. After a league-appointed arbitrator upheld the ban, Peterson sued in federal court, where a judge overturned the arbitration ruling.
His legal battle over, Peterson has returned to the Vikings. But teams are now being routinely questioned for signing players who have legal clouds hanging over them.
This month, the Seattle Seahawks were forced to explain why they drafted Frank Clark, who was involved in a dispute that led to a fourth-degree misdemeanor verdict.
Coach Pete Carroll said that the team had done due diligence on Clark, his background growing up in a tough part of Los Angeles, and the incident.
“We went through the process and we found out what kind of kid this guy is and what happened through the process that he’s been through, and we uncovered that we have a young man that deserves an opportunity,” Carroll said. “I think he’ll continue to show you why.”
Collins, who was questioned by investigators in Louisiana about a murder, is an even muddier case. Although he was not a suspect is the case, Collins tried to pull out of the draft because of his concern about how the legal uncertainty might affect his draft selection. No team ended up choosing Collins, but the Cowboys signed him to a fully guaranteed three-year contract.
Jerry Jones, the Cowboys’ owner, said Collins was not drafted because of an “unfortunate circumstance not of his doing” and took the unusual step of holding a news conference for an undrafted free agent.
Jones is not the first owner accused of putting winning ahead of prudence. But Jodi Balsam, who teaches at Brooklyn Law School and previously worked for the N.F.L., said that while teams could not conspire to keep players off their rosters, each was being forced to learn how to do what was best for the team on the field and what was best for the team’s image off the field.
“Every sports team has the ultimate bottom line, getting wins,” Balsam said. “But fewer and fewer teams can operate that way. It’s all going to catch up to where they are going to make sure no one is going to embarrass them.”
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Bears Stumble in N.F.L.’s Quagmire on Domestic Violence . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Newsletter may include personalized content. Learn more .
2015-05-25 18:53:36
Featuring fresh takes and real-time analysis from HuffPost's signature lineup of contributors
Hot on the Blog
Posted:
Photo credit: Wikimedia
Kudos go out to the Chicago Bears, in wake of the recent news regarding the Ray McDonald situation.  Maybe the NFL will get the idea.
Domestic violence is on the rise in the NFL, whether or not they want to admit it.  Ray Rice, Adrian Peterson, and Greg Hardy are three names that come to mind immediately.  There will be more to come, despite the fact that the league tries to sell us on "character over talent".
One name that hasn't gotten the same type of public attention is Ray McDonald, formerly of the 49ers.
While with the 49ers, Ray McDonald was arrested on domestic violence charges, stemming from an incident when police were called to his home, and his fiance displayed injuries that were attributed to McDonald.  McDonald was cleared by the DA, and the case was dropped.  This inexplicably did not break the NFL's personal conduct policy, and McDonald was never disciplined.
In December, McDonald was being investigated for a possible sexual assault, and the 49ers released him.
He signed with the Bears back in March.  This may have been questionable due to McDonald's history, but if the Bears felt that giving him a second chance was a good idea, that was up to them.
But here is where the Bears stepped up.  On Monday, Ray McDonald was arrested on domestic violence and child endangerment charges.  The specifics don't matter.  The Bears, citing their own standard, released McDonald on Tuesday.
The NFL needs to take note.
In any other walk of life, this type of charge would not afford a person a second chance.  Most of us reading this post right now, were we to be charged with this crime, would have seen the inside of a jail cell.  Being an athlete, unfortunately, prevents you from having to answer for your crimes.
But that doesn't mean the teams have to stand for it.
The Bears exhibited a "no tolerance" policy for domestic violence.  Good for them.  The whole league should have that same policy.
Whether or not we like it, athletes are in a position to influence the young people of this country.  Children watch these players with wide eyes, dreaming of making plays just like them.  They wear their numbers on their backs, attend the games and scream their names, imagining how they could make the big play in the big game, just like the men in front of them.
Children idolize athletes.  Right or wrong, that is what happens.
When athletes are allowed to come back to work after displaying this type of behavior, what are we supposed to say?  Children are going to believe that becoming a sports star makes you entitled to behave however you like.  They will believe that it doesn't matter how they act, as long as they make the big play, it all works out in the end.
The Bears decided to buck the trend.  Instead of waiting around to find out the NFL's disposition on Ray McDonald's behavior, they decided to say "No.  We don't tolerate that in Chicago."  It makes the appropriate statement to the youth of this country.
The NFL is in a downward spiral, heading towards complete chaos, thanks to the behavior of many of its players, Ray McDonald included.  The Chicago Bears decided to make a statement.
Take a lesson, NFL.  You might just save the reputation of your league.
For more from Alan Schechter, check him out at EndZone Score .
Follow Alan Schechter on Twitter: www.twitter.com/Jets_EZscore
More:
Conversations
Options
Sports
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Sports
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Sports
Follow
Part of Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

