NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Ray McDonald in September. He was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. Credit Jeff Gross/Getty Images North America
Advertisement
In past years, the Chicago Bears might have been praised for their decision on Monday to cut Ray McDonald, who was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. The team might have been lauded for taking a tough stand on players who misbehaved off the field and discredited the N.F.L.
But the Bears have been far from congratulated. In fact, their decision has led to more questions, including why they signed McDonald in the first place.
This is 2015, and the N.F.L. spent much of last year trying to rebut criticism that it is a league incapable of taking domestic violence seriously, or unwilling to do so.
McDonald’s arrest was his third in less than a year involving domestic violence and assault. The first two cases were dropped, although the San Francisco 49ers released McDonald in December after his second arrest.
Given the heightened sensitivity to domestic violence, the Bears were immediately questioned in March for giving McDonald a one-year deal worth as much as $1.5 million.
The Bears were caught between respecting the league’s new zero tolerance for players who commit domestic violence and wanting to give a talented player — who had not been convicted of a crime — a chance to redeem himself.
The results have been messy. While the N.F.L. has strengthened its personal conduct policy, teams are grappling with the gray areas it has created.
Should teams sign players who have been accused but not convicted? Should they stay away from players who are in danger of being disciplined by the league? And what about rookies like La’el Collins and Frank Clark, who were implicated in cases before they entered the N.F.L.?
“The league has not really thought through its own message,” said Paul H. Haagen, co-director of the Center for Sports Law and Policy at Duke University. “They are definitely making it up as they go along and leaving themselves areas of discretion. But by leaving themselves discretion and not making clear what the required processes are, there is constant uncertainty and questions.”
The unintended consequences of the league’s focus on protecting its image are continuing. This week, Commissioner Roger Goodell will answer a request by the players union that he recuse himself from hearing New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady’s appeal of his suspension over underinflated footballs. Rules dictate that the union makes its request to an arbitrator, who in this case is Goodell.
Then there is Greg Hardy, the former Panthers defensive lineman who was put on paid leave last year while he appealed a conviction for domestic violence.
After the case was dropped on appeal, Hardy signed a one-year deal with the Dallas Cowboys. Goodell then suspended Hardy for 10 games because the league’s own two-month investigation found that he had used physical force against his girlfriend at least four times. On Thursday, Hardy will appeal his suspension by arguing that he was penalized under new guidelines that did not exist when he was arrested.
Advertisement
Harold Henderson, the league-appointed hearing officer, will hear Hardy’s appeal.
Hardy is following the same road as Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson, who was put on paid leave last year after he was arrested for hitting his 4-year-old son. After he pleaded no contest on Nov. 4 to reckless assault, Peterson was suspended until at least April 15 for violating the N.F.L.’s personal-conduct policy. After a league-appointed arbitrator upheld the ban, Peterson sued in federal court, where a judge overturned the arbitration ruling.
His legal battle over, Peterson has returned to the Vikings. But teams are now being routinely questioned for signing players who have legal clouds hanging over them.
This month, the Seattle Seahawks were forced to explain why they drafted Frank Clark, who was involved in a dispute that led to a fourth-degree misdemeanor verdict.
Coach Pete Carroll said that the team had done due diligence on Clark, his background growing up in a tough part of Los Angeles, and the incident.
“We went through the process and we found out what kind of kid this guy is and what happened through the process that he’s been through, and we uncovered that we have a young man that deserves an opportunity,” Carroll said. “I think he’ll continue to show you why.”
Collins, who was questioned by investigators in Louisiana about a murder, is an even muddier case. Although he was not a suspect is the case, Collins tried to pull out of the draft because of his concern about how the legal uncertainty might affect his draft selection. No team ended up choosing Collins, but the Cowboys signed him to a fully guaranteed three-year contract.
Jerry Jones, the Cowboys’ owner, said Collins was not drafted because of an “unfortunate circumstance not of his doing” and took the unusual step of holding a news conference for an undrafted free agent.
Jones is not the first owner accused of putting winning ahead of prudence. But Jodi Balsam, who teaches at Brooklyn Law School and previously worked for the N.F.L., said that while teams could not conspire to keep players off their rosters, each was being forced to learn how to do what was best for the team on the field and what was best for the team’s image off the field.
“Every sports team has the ultimate bottom line, getting wins,” Balsam said. “But fewer and fewer teams can operate that way. It’s all going to catch up to where they are going to make sure no one is going to embarrass them.”
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Bears Stumble in N.F.L.’s Quagmire on Domestic Violence . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


General Information: (423) 756-6900
Greeson: McDonald situation could haunt NFL
Greeson: McDonald situation could haunt NFL
May 27th, 2015 by        Jay Greeson in Sports - Columns
In this Sept. 7, 2014, file photo, San Francisco 49ers' Ray McDonald sits on the bench during the second half of an NFL football game against the Dallas Cowboys in Arlington, Texas. Northern California authorities are investigating 49ers defensive lineman Ray McDonald on suspicion of sexual assault. San Jose Police Department Sgt. Heather Randol said Wednesday, Dec. 17, 2014, that detectives searched McDonald's San Jose home.                           Photo by                         Associated Press/Times Free Press.
Early Monday morning, former San Francisco 49ers and now former Chicago Bears defensive tackle Ray McDonald was arrested on domestic assault and child endangerment.
It was a Memorial Day moment that likely will be forever memorable for the National Football League and its future trajectory.
McDonald, who was charged with hitting a woman who was holding a baby, now is the face of the NFL's biggest problem.
Forget extra points or Tom Brady's level of involvement in DeflateGate. Domestic crimes and the fallout from that have to be front and center for the league and its players.
Yes, this is a legal issue, but for the NFL -- the king daddy of popular culture at the moment -- perception and public opinion are top priorities.
Plus, crimes against women, while cowardly and horrible, are overly dangerous for every person or profession in the public eye. More than half our society is female and all of our society has or had a mother. It's impossible to support crimes against women; it's even below kicking puppies and Bill Belichick on the approval meter.
So McDonald now becomes the test case for commissioner Roger Goodell and the league.
McDonald missed most of 2014 because of domestic violence charges, and the Bears came under fire for signing him.
He got another chance because this is a scoreboard league and talent means more than character on Sundays. But will talent mean more than public perception now that the NFL is the monolith in all entertainment?
It's easy now to say that signing McDonald was a disastrous decision, but it also may be a cautionary tale for the league and its teams. And a warning shot for the players association for the importance of this issue moving forward.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell speaks to reporters during the NFL's spring meetings in San Francisco, Wednesday, May 20, 2015. (AP Photo/Jeff Chiu)
Photo by                   The Associated Press/Times Free Press.
Goodell has done next to nothing to earn anyone's confidence in handling matters this serious. From the very beginning with the Ray Rice debacle -- a too-soft two-game suspension followed by a knee-jerk reaction followed by simply making it up as they went -- Goodell has been one part soap opera hunk and three parts Benny Hill.
Someone in the league office needs to make sure this gets handled properly. And quickly.
Maybe the league blackballs McDonald for ever. Goodell tossed out some outline late last year, and if that's the playbook, then fine. If it's not, then make sure you have your ducks -- and votes -- in a row before trotting out a decision and reversing field like in the Rice debacle.
Whatever the decision, the NFLPA needs to stand next to the league and nod its collective head.
The players and the nine-figure salary cap that grows by millions every year have a lot on the line here, too. Fewer fans because of a few knuckleheads hurts the entire bottom line, and that includes the players.
So check the appeals and the hand-wringing about Goodell being judge and jury. Yes, the league needs to keep the NFLPA in the loop, but no one wants to hear collective bargaining semantics about McDonald and the rest of this moving forward.
The public wants answers about what's going to be done today and moving forward. And if the players don't want to be part of the process, they can certainly be cut from the loop and questionable-character players will be put on the chopping block from this day moving forward.
If the league can fine and take away draft picks from teams for everything from softer balls to fake crowd noise, the league surely can look into disciplining teams for signing at-risk players.
And while the Bears had no guaranteed money in the one-year deal it gave McDonald, if the ripple effect of signing a player with a domestic assault history is losing a first-round pick if it happens again, well, that's a big risk.
So whatcha got, Roger? This moment and issue as much as the concussion debate will be as much of your legacy as the fact the league has become the most popular entertainment option in the country under your watch.
And, yes, the future of that final fact for Goodell may well be determined by how he handles Ray McDonald and those like him.
Contact Jay Greeson at jgreeson@timesfreepress.com or 423-757-6343. Follow him on Twitter at jgreeson@timesfreepress.com. Read his online column "The 5-at-10" weekdays starting at 10 a.m. at timesfreepress.com.
Getting started
1. If you frequently comment on news websites then you may already have a Disqus account. If so, click the "Login" button at the top right of the comment widget and choose whether you'd rather log in with Facebook, Twitter, Google, or a Disqus account.
2. If you've forgotten your password, Disqus will email you a link that will allow you to create a new one. Easy!
3. If you're not a member yet, Disqus will go ahead and register you. It's seamless and takes about 10 seconds.
4. To register, either go through the login process or just click in the box that says "join the discussion," type your comment, and either choose a social media platform to log you in or create a Disqus account with your email address.
5. If you use Twitter, Facebook or Google to log in, you will need to stay logged into that platform in order to comment. If you create a Disqus account instead, you'll need to remember your Disqus password. Either way, you can change your display name if you'd rather not show off your real name.
6. Don't be a huge jerk or do anything illegal, and you'll be fine.
Chattanooga Times Free Press Comments Policy
The Chattanooga Times Free Press web sites include interactive areas in which users can express opinions and share ideas and information. We cannot and do not monitor all of the material submitted to the website. Additionally, we do not control, and are not responsible for, content submitted by users. By using the web sites, you may be exposed to content that you may find offensive, indecent, inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise objectionable. You agree that you must evaluate, and bear all risks associated with, the use of the Times Free Press web sites and any content on the Times Free Press web sites, including, but not limited to, whether you should rely on such content. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you acknowledge that we shall have the right (but not the obligation) to review any content that you have submitted to the Times Free Press, and to reject, delete, disable, or remove any content that we determine, in our sole discretion, (a) does not comply with the terms and conditions of this agreement; (b) might violate any law, infringe upon the rights of third parties, or subject us to liability for any reason; or (c) might adversely affect our public image, reputation or goodwill. Moreover, we reserve the right to reject, delete, disable, or remove any content at any time, for the reasons set forth above, for any other reason, or for no reason. If you believe that any content on any of the Times Free Press websites infringes upon any copyrights that you own, please contact us pursuant to the procedures outlined in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (Title 17 U.S.C. § 512) at the following address:
Copyright Agent
400 East 11th Street
Phone: 423-757-6315
Email: webeditor@timesfreepress.com
Latest Articles

