NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Ray McDonald in September. He was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. Credit Jeff Gross/Getty Images North America
Advertisement
In past years, the Chicago Bears might have been praised for their decision on Monday to cut Ray McDonald, who was arrested on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. The team might have been lauded for taking a tough stand on players who misbehaved off the field and discredited the N.F.L.
But the Bears have been far from congratulated. In fact, their decision has led to more questions, including why they signed McDonald in the first place.
This is 2015, and the N.F.L. spent much of last year trying to rebut criticism that it is a league incapable of taking domestic violence seriously, or unwilling to do so.
McDonald’s arrest was his third in less than a year involving domestic violence and assault. The first two cases were dropped, although the San Francisco 49ers released McDonald in December after his second arrest.
Given the heightened sensitivity to domestic violence, the Bears were immediately questioned in March for giving McDonald a one-year deal worth as much as $1.5 million.
The Bears were caught between respecting the league’s new zero tolerance for players who commit domestic violence and wanting to give a talented player — who had not been convicted of a crime — a chance to redeem himself.
The results have been messy. While the N.F.L. has strengthened its personal conduct policy, teams are grappling with the gray areas it has created.
Should teams sign players who have been accused but not convicted? Should they stay away from players who are in danger of being disciplined by the league? And what about rookies like La’el Collins and Frank Clark, who were implicated in cases before they entered the N.F.L.?
“The league has not really thought through its own message,” said Paul H. Haagen, co-director of the Center for Sports Law and Policy at Duke University. “They are definitely making it up as they go along and leaving themselves areas of discretion. But by leaving themselves discretion and not making clear what the required processes are, there is constant uncertainty and questions.”
The unintended consequences of the league’s focus on protecting its image are continuing. This week, Commissioner Roger Goodell will answer a request by the players union that he recuse himself from hearing New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady’s appeal of his suspension over underinflated footballs. Rules dictate that the union makes its request to an arbitrator, who in this case is Goodell.
Then there is Greg Hardy, the former Panthers defensive lineman who was put on paid leave last year while he appealed a conviction for domestic violence.
After the case was dropped on appeal, Hardy signed a one-year deal with the Dallas Cowboys. Goodell then suspended Hardy for 10 games because the league’s own two-month investigation found that he had used physical force against his girlfriend at least four times. On Thursday, Hardy will appeal his suspension by arguing that he was penalized under new guidelines that did not exist when he was arrested.
Advertisement
Harold Henderson, the league-appointed hearing officer, will hear Hardy’s appeal.
Hardy is following the same road as Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson, who was put on paid leave last year after he was arrested for hitting his 4-year-old son. After he pleaded no contest on Nov. 4 to reckless assault, Peterson was suspended until at least April 15 for violating the N.F.L.’s personal-conduct policy. After a league-appointed arbitrator upheld the ban, Peterson sued in federal court, where a judge overturned the arbitration ruling.
His legal battle over, Peterson has returned to the Vikings. But teams are now being routinely questioned for signing players who have legal clouds hanging over them.
This month, the Seattle Seahawks were forced to explain why they drafted Frank Clark, who was involved in a dispute that led to a fourth-degree misdemeanor verdict.
Coach Pete Carroll said that the team had done due diligence on Clark, his background growing up in a tough part of Los Angeles, and the incident.
“We went through the process and we found out what kind of kid this guy is and what happened through the process that he’s been through, and we uncovered that we have a young man that deserves an opportunity,” Carroll said. “I think he’ll continue to show you why.”
Collins, who was questioned by investigators in Louisiana about a murder, is an even muddier case. Although he was not a suspect is the case, Collins tried to pull out of the draft because of his concern about how the legal uncertainty might affect his draft selection. No team ended up choosing Collins, but the Cowboys signed him to a fully guaranteed three-year contract.
Jerry Jones, the Cowboys’ owner, said Collins was not drafted because of an “unfortunate circumstance not of his doing” and took the unusual step of holding a news conference for an undrafted free agent.
Jones is not the first owner accused of putting winning ahead of prudence. But Jodi Balsam, who teaches at Brooklyn Law School and previously worked for the N.F.L., said that while teams could not conspire to keep players off their rosters, each was being forced to learn how to do what was best for the team on the field and what was best for the team’s image off the field.
“Every sports team has the ultimate bottom line, getting wins,” Balsam said. “But fewer and fewer teams can operate that way. It’s all going to catch up to where they are going to make sure no one is going to embarrass them.”
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Bears Stumble in N.F.L.’s Quagmire on Domestic Violence . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


2h
The California Highway Patrol has released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of NFL defensive end Ray McDonald on suspicion of child endangerment and domestic viole
Brad Barr/USA TODAY Sports
Speaking to reporters for the first time since draft-day trade speculation, Philip Rivers said he wants to stay with the Chargers long term, because "we haven't accomplished the ultimate goal."
AP Photo/Evan Vucci
Robert Griffin III has been returned to the starting quarterback role with the Redskins and says affecting change will come with a change in mentality, which he thinks has already begun.
Ken Blaze/USA TODAY Sports
6hPat McManamon
Josh McCown and Johnny Manziel are learning a new system with a new coordinator and new receivers, and it showed on the first day of Browns OTAs.
Harry How/Getty Images
Chargers safety Eric Weddle skipped the beginning of OTAs on Tuesday as he remains unhappy with his contract status, but coach Mike McCoy said the team isn't "waiting for anybody."
Thearon W. Henderson/Getty Images
14hJamison Hensley
On his brother's death bed, DeAndre Carter vowed to his brother that, no matter what, he was going to reach the NFL for both of them.
Play0:56
7hJeffri Chadiha
The pass-happy CFL could be just the place for ex-Rams draft pick Michael Sam to show NFL teams how good he can be at rushing the quarterback, Jeffri Chadiha writes.
2 Related
10h
Chicago won't take a cap hit for cutting Ray McDonald, but it will bear some responsibility. A fine, albeit not a substantial one, is on the horizon.
2 Related
Despite rumors that he might not show up for offseason workouts, Steelers receiver Antonio Brown joined his teammates Tuesday, saying he was "ready to play football."
Play1:48
2dJohn Clayton
On issues from Deflategate to Los Angeles relocation, NFL owners are showing how unity keeps them powerful, John Clayton writes. Plus: blocking extra points, the NFLPA's angle and more.
Charles LeClaire/USA TODAY Sports
15hJeremy Fowler
Coming off a career statistical season and with his supporting cast, Ben Roethlisberger has a chance to play at the level of his new contract.
Play1:58
The photo of J.J. Watt's bruise is nasty, but imagine playing with torn knee ligaments or a tooth stuck in your arm. Jeffri Chadiha recounts some memorable moments of athletes ignoring injuries.
1 Related
Louis Hoglund and the Pelican Rapids Press
2dRobert Demovsky
Moss met fan when she was 8 and he was a rookie with the Vikings, and the former star has kept in touch while she battled leukemia and a brain tumor.
Play4:00
1dPaul Lukas
ESPN athletics aesthetics expert Paul Lukas reveals his comprehensive updated hierarchy of pro football uniforms for the 2015 season, from best to worst (sorry, Jaguars).
3 Related
SAN FRANCISCO -- The California Highway Patrol has released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of NFL defensive end Ray McDonald on suspicion of child endangerment and domestic violence.
A woman, who is identified as the mother of the alleged victim, tells a dispatcher that McDonald is drunk during a 911 call about 3:41 a.m. PDT Monday.
According San Jose Mercury News, McDonald violently broke through a bedroom door to get to his ex-fiancée and their infant daughter. The 6-foot-3, 290-pound lineman then tried to take the baby from her before leaving, according to the report.
McDonald was later arrested at a San Jose, California, home on suspicion of assaulting a woman who was holding the couple's baby.
The caller says she wasn't at the home but that her daughter told her to call police, according to the recording.
Later in the day, the Chicago Bears released McDonald.
The arrest follows a pattern of similar incidents.
McDonald's agent, Tom Condon, has not returned multiple calls seeking comment.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
0 Shares

