Move over Marilyn! Reality star Kim Kardashian poses as iconic film star Marilyn Monroe for Vogue Brazil
by:
IS Kim Kardashian this generation’s Marilyn Monroe?
Her husband Kanye West recently declared she was , as too did Riccardo Tisci, creative director of famed fashion house Givenchy.
Now scores of the reality television star’s fans have taken to social media to compare Kardashian to the blonde screen siren, after she posed for a Vogue Brazil shoot inspired by Monroe.
LOOK ONE
LOOK TWO
(Frame content direct link: https://www.instagram.com/p/3J_25CQLtN/embed .)
Kardashian, 34, graces not one, but two covers of Vogue Brazil in stunning pictures shot by photographer Ellen Von Unwerth, which channel the 1950s Hollywood icon .
In one, she poses on a leopard-print blanket wearing leather gloves. And that’s no wig — the shoot took place shortly after she dyed her hair icy blonde.
WATCH: BLONDE BOMBSHELL
(Frame content direct link: https://www.instagram.com/p/3KQEKLuSza/embed .)
“Bombshell effect,” the cover reads in Portuguese. “Better representative of the curvaceous silhouette rising in the red carpets.”
“This is the second cover of the June edition, which celebrates the body, Vogue Brasil starring Kim Kardashian — symbol of the new silhouette for high in the red carpets,” the magazine wrote.
Fashion icon ... Kim Kardashian West photographed for Vogue Australia on a beach in New South Wales for the February 2015 issue. Picture: Supplied Source: Vogue Australia
Cover star ... Kim Kardashian and Kanye West on the cover of Vogue Magazine, April 2014 Issue. Picture: Vogue Magazine Source: Supplied
Inside the issue, Kardashian takes a swipe at her ‘haters’ and offered a blunt declaration to those who criticise her.
“I challenge anyone to try to do everything I do and then tell me whether or not I have talent,” she said.
Comments Form
Email Address *
Location (optional)
Post Options
Email me if my comment is published
News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
Submit
Kevin A Posted at 10:36 AM Today
What a joke Kim Kardashian has never made a movie!? Sex tapes are not movies.
P of Melbourne Posted at 10:25 AM Today
Does anyone else thing that Kimyes foray into high fashion is an attempt to appear classy when they are just trash? This is a porn/reality star in case anyone is forgetting. And Kanye is a rapper. Neither denotes class. It would be fairly infuriating if I was rubbing shoulders with the elite and I knew was the joe dirt or new money in the room. Looks likey they are compensating for their own insecurities
18
72
15
This is also known as Online Behavioural Advertising.

