Joe Biden to visit San Francisco and Oakland this week
Posted:   04/07/2015 05:14:47 PM PDT
Updated:   04/07/2015 05:14:47 PM PDT
Vice President Joe Biden will visit the Bay Area this week to raise money for House Democrats and preach the administration's gospel on workforce development.
Biden will arrive in San Francisco on Thursday for a political event, the White House announced Tuesday. Sources say he'll join House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi to raise money for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
On Friday, Biden is scheduled to visit a PG&E center in Oakland to discuss the importance of workforce development and investing in job-training programs across the country, the White House said.
US Vice President Joe Biden speaks during the dedication of the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate in Boston, Massachusetts, March 30, 2015.   AFP PHOTO/JIM WATSONJIM WATSON/AFP/Getty Images  ( JIM WATSON )
His wife, Jill Biden, is coming as well and plans to visit De Anza College in Cupertino to highlight the administration's commitment to community colleges and their importance to the nation's future. Jill Biden -- who still teaches English at Northern Virginia Community College -- in 2010 hosted a White House summit on community colleges.
The vice president earlier Thursday will give a major speech at the National Defense University in Washington about progress made in strengthening Iraq's government and military to defeat the self-proclaimed Islamic State, The Associated Press reported. Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi is scheduled to meet with President Barack Obama next week in Washington.
Advertisement
Joe Biden last visited the Bay Area in early October to raise money for the Democratic National Committee and before that in late May to raise money for the DNC at the San Francisco home of hedge fund billionaire Tom Steyer, an environmental activist.
Josh Richman covers politics. Follow him at Twitter.com/Josh_Richman . Read the Political Blotter at IBAbuzz.com/politics .

