May 27, 2015    Last updated: Wednesday, May 27, 2015, 1:21 AM
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS | 
Embattled general manager Ruben Amaro Jr. has apologized to Philadelphia Phillies fans for saying they "don’t understand the game" and the "process" that goes into constructing a team.
Speaking before the Phillies played the Mets at Citi Field on Tuesday night, Amaro said he probably used his words "incorrectly or poorly," and acknowledged they "caused a bit of a firestorm" in Philadelphia. He said his comments were not intended to disparage the team’s fans.
Already criticized by fans eager to see the club rebuild following consecutive 73-89 finishes, Amaro told CSNPhilly.com for a story published Tuesday that he thinks the Phillies will be conservative in promoting top pitching prospects Aaron Nola and Zach Eflin through the minors.
As for fans who want to see the team be more aggressive? "They don’t understand the game," Amaro said, according to CSNPhilly.com. "They don’t understand the process. There’s a process. And then they … complain because we don’t have a plan.
"There’s a plan in place and we’re sticking with the plan. We can’t do what’s best for the fan. We have to do what’s best for the organization so the fan can reap the benefit of it later on. That’s the truth."
CUBS 3, NATIONALS 2 (at Chicago) — Addison Russell hit a game-ending RBI double in the ninth inning and Chicago beat the surging Nationals.
Chris Coghlan started the winning rally with a one-out single against Matt Grace (2-1). The Cubs then caught a huge break when shortstop Ian Desmond threw wide to first while trying to turn a potential double play on pinch-hitter Jonathan Herrera’s grounder to second.
American League
MARINERS 7, RAYS 6 (at St. Petersburg, Fla.) — Kyle Seager hit a grand slam in the eighth inning and a game-winning home run in the 10th to lift Seattle.
ASTROS 4, ORIOLES 1 (at Baltimore) — Scott Feldman outpitched Chris Tillman, Chris Carter keyed a seventh-inning rally, and Houston won its 10th in 13 games.
© 2015 North Jersey Media Group

