2015-04-06 10:19:53
2015-04-06 11:59:49
2015-04-06 14:56:16
Ozy  |  By                                                                      Emily Cadei
This story was originally published by Ozy .
The Iowa presidential caucuses are a rather unconventional affair, an hours-long voting process in the darkest depths of the Midwestern winter. The results carry outsize influence, especially when you consider that Iowa delivers only six electoral votes, and that, over the past 40 years, only three nonincumbents who won caucuses went on to be president. Perhaps that makes Rand Paul, just-announced Republican candidate, a good horse to bet on. With his libertarian stance on social issues and effort to appeal to nontraditional GOP voting blocs, Paul is a bit quirky himself.
So is his man in Iowa, Steve Grubbs. The Davenport-based political operative has a penchant for signing onto the campaigns of unusual Republicans, from Steve Forbes, in 2000, to Herman Cain (the Godfather’s Pizza mogul) in 2012. The last time he scored a caucus win for his candidate was 1996, for Bob Dole, who went on to win the nomination … and then become a spokesperson for Viagra.
But Grubbs, 50, is a well-known and well-liked figure in the Iowa GOP — the Iowa Republican, an influential political blog, described Paul’s hiring of Grubbs last July as “a big get” — and while he might not win the caucuses for Paul, he’ll open the doors to the Republican establishment there. That’s something Paul desperately needs: The latest polling in Iowa has him placing second, trailing Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker in a crowded field. To make it to the top, Paul will have to rally the activist base that loves his father, a libertarian icon, while making those establishment inroads.
OZY caught up with Grubbs by phone last month, as Grubbs was heading home from Dubuque. We spoke about the groundwork he’s trying to lay for a likely Paul presidential run. An edited version of our conversation is below.
OZY:
You’ve worked for a lot of idiosyncratic politicians over the course of your career. How do you decide whose campaign to sign onto?
GRUBBS:
First of all, somebody has to want you. If they don’t want me, that part is an issue [laughs]. Generally, over the years, I’ve had good opportunities. Each time it came down to different factors. Tommy Thompson, he was a personal friend of mine. Steve Forbes was someone I admired in business. Bob Dole was through my dad’s influence — he taught [junior high school] in Kansas [where Dole was a senator] before he taught in Iowa. Herman Cain was a candidate that I thought could grow the Republican party and match up well with Barack Obama in a general election. So the short of it is, I have to be comfortable with their positions and views, and then after that, it comes down to different factors.
OZY:
GRUBBS:
He’s not Bill Clinton, he’s not Joe Biden. Rand Paul is the thoughtful candidate, and he’s a little bit more like Steve Forbes in that way. I like that about him — he’s very substantive. And when he speaks, people appreciate it.
OZY:
How do you build the kind of coalition Paul needs — activists and establishment voters alike — in Iowa, where a large pool of Republican candidates are competing for a small number of hard-core GOP voters?
GRUBBS:
Politics is the art of the possible. There’s certainly people out there, if given 10 candidates, they would not pick Rand Paul. I just left Dubuque, where I met with a group of potential Rand Paul supporters. The one-on-one builds the ground game. In Iowa, you have the air war and you have the ground war. The air war is your radio, your television, maybe your mail and social media. And then your ground game is traveling like I did tonight, talking individually and in small groups.
OZY:
GRUBBS:
I was campaigning for the U.S. Senate [Grubbs lost in the GOP primary, in 1996] and my staff called this little radio station in Mount Pleasant, Iowa, and said I’d be stopping by and could they do an interview with me. We had my driver pull up, and they were waiting for me; they were very excited. The reporter got her little notebook out and looked at me and said, “So, you’re running for president.” I replied, “No, I’m running for the U.S. Senate.” And she said, “Well, you’re Steve Forbes, aren’t you?”
Steve Forbes was getting into his first presidential campaign, of 1996. The rest of the interview went sort of downhill from there.
OZY:
Based on your campaigning over the years, what are the biggest lessons you’ve learned about winning in Iowa?
GRUBBS:
Rule No. 1: Take the long view. John McCain taught everybody in 2007 and 2008, when you think you’re dead in the water, you’re not. Rick Santorum [who won the 2012 Iowa caucus] taught us the same lesson.
Rule No. 2: Conserve your resources. It’s a marathon, not a sprint. You’ve got to have enough juice in the tank to get you to the end.
Rule No. 3: Live to fight another day. As Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush and John McCain and Mitt Romney found out, it may not always happen on your first try, but live to fight another day. Don’t burn your bridges.
Also on HuffPost:
of


On Valentine's Day, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) tweeted out a Hillary Clinton parody Pinterest account. The profile, which Pinterest removed  citing terms of service violations, featured a "White House Remodel" board and a series of memes highlighting several Clinton gaffes and scandals.
In January, Paul tweeted out a satirical "secret phone call" between former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and Hillary Clinton. The fake call lampoons the dynastic relationship between the Bush and Clinton clans, making repeated references to famous gaffes from both families.
After Mitt Romney and Jeb Bush met in January, Paul tweeted images from a fake gift exchange between the two former governors. The tweets dissed Romney's two failed presidential campaigns and Bush's support for the Common Core education standards.
Airing his grievances online in December, Paul poked fun at former Sen. Rick Santorum's sartorial staple, tweeting "We all know having a fashion forward campaign is important to success, as @RickSantorum showed us in 2012."
After several high-profile Republican victories in the 2014 elections, Paul took to Facebook to highlight the ties between Clinton and failed Senate candidates like Allison Lundergan Grimes and former Mississippi Sen. Mary Landrieu, creating a #hillaryslosers hashtag and posting memes.
In January, The Daily Beast reported that RandPAC, Sen. Paul's Super PAC, had purchased targeted Google ads for search terms related to possible 2016 contenders Gov. Jeb Bush and Gov. Mike Huckabee. The paid ads dissed Huckabee for raising taxes and Bush for supporting Common Core education standards.
After Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fl.) dismissed Sen. Paul's foreign policy credentials, Paul shot back on Twitter. "Senator @marcorubio is acting like an isolationist who wants to retreat to our borders and perhaps build a moat. I reject this isolationism," Paul said.
Taking more shots at Bush, Romney and Clinton, Paul tweeted "The same old candidates running for President #ThingsToRunFrom."
Long before they  took their feud to cable television, Paul "gleefully" engaged New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie in a Twitter beef over debt and national security.
Sen. Paul needled some of his less adventurous Washington peers, tweeting "This year @MotherJones named me best dressed in Washington.  Of course everyone else is wearing a blue suit, so it isn't really a contest,"Paul tweeted.
 Share
 Tweet
More:
Conversations
Options
Politics
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Politics
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Politics
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

