San Diego Union-Tribune announces layoffs
Don Bartletti / Los Angeles Times
About 100 of the layoffs at the San Diego Union-Tribune were in the operations department, most of them truck drivers, machinists and pressroom workers. There were also job cuts in circulation and advertising.
About 100 of the layoffs at the San Diego Union-Tribune were in the operations department, most of them truck drivers, machinists and pressroom workers. There were also job cuts in circulation and advertising.
(Don Bartletti / Los Angeles Times)
San Diego Union-Tribune cuts 178 jobs, about 30% of its staff
The San Diego Union-Tribune said Tuesday that it was laying off 178 employees, about 30% of its staff, in a cost-cutting effort that mainly affected its printing and delivery operations.
The job cuts came five days after Tribune Publishing Co., owner of the Los Angeles Times, completed its purchase of the San Diego newspaper. At the time of the acquisition, Tribune said it expected to consolidate some operations between the newspapers. Russ Newton, president and chief operating officer of the Union-Tribune, said the newspaper would move its print operations from San Diego to Los Angeles, where The Times is printed.
"One of the key drivers for this move is having the San Diego Union-Tribune printed on much better press equipment than it currently is," Newton said. "It will be a little bit better experience for the consumer."
About 100 of the layoffs were in the operations department, most of them truck drivers, machinists and pressroom workers, Newton said. There were also job cuts in circulation and advertising.
ridgeley
Jeff Light, editor of the Union-Tribune, said nine of 173 newsroom employees were let go — eight of them from U-T TV, its television operation.
"Readers of the paper should not notice any changes at all as a result of today's moves, but there will be some talented directors, producers and anchors on the job market," Light said in an email to The Times.
He said there are no plans for additional newsroom cuts.
The purchase is part of a broader strategy at Tribune Publishing — and across the newspaper industry — to buy publications in adjacent markets and increase revenue by consolidating printing, distribution and other operations.
Tribune Publishing, which also owns the Chicago Tribune, Baltimore Sun and other daily newspapers, paid $85 million in cash and stock to buy the Union-Tribune, eight community weeklies and related websites from real estate magnate Doug Manchester.
As part of the deal, Chicago-based Tribune Publishing created California News Group, which will oversee operations of Los Angeles Times Media Group and the Union-Tribune.
Twitter: @spfeifer22
Lori Weisberg, a staff writer for the San Diego Union-Tribune, contributed to this report.


By U-T San Diego7:19 p.m.May 26, 2015
⎙
-
San Diego Union Tribune president and chief operating officer Russ Newton stands in the U-T pressroom.
Share Photo
✉


Q: What is the most important part of your new job?
A: Making sure we produce the best paper we can for our readers, online and in print. Figure out what our customers (readers and advertisers) want and give it to them. To make sure we are a positive force for all of San Diego and surrounding cities.
Q: What will be your first priority?
A: Figuring out what is the most important priority. The first few days on this job have felt like drinking from a fire hydrant! I think communicating the changes (most of them good) that will happen as The San Diego Union-Tribune changes ownership is high on that list. We need all the employees pulling in the same direction, not worried about their jobs or their benefits.
Q: You’ve done some integrating of newspapers before. How does this one compare?
A: The team in San Diego has been open, willing and amazingly helpful with the joining of SDUT to Tribune Publishing. There are some behind-the-scenes changes that will not impact the reader, but are a big deal to the employees who have to learn new systems and not miss a beat with their daily jobs. I have 100 percent confidence the readers of The San Diego Union-Tribune will see only positive changes.
Q: How did you decide on a career in newspapers?
A: I had a paper route in Madison, Wis., when I was 11 years old in 1971 and loved reading the paper before anyone else got it. I really liked how important the paper was to the people I delivered to. Many times they would be waiting at their front door for the paper. That made a big impression on me at a young age. After high school, I started at the local paper and fell in love with the business, again. Eighteen jobs, five states and 44 years later, here I am, still doing a job I love.
Q: What do you enjoy most about it?
A: The thing I love is that no matter what happened today, we get to do it again tomorrow. Hopefully better! You didn’t ask, but the thing I dislike is having to do it again tomorrow! It is amazing when you think about it. We collect, edit and verify news from around the world every day, and get that product to customers’ doorsteps by 6 a.m. every day. (Well, almost every day.)
Q: What’s your leadership style?
A: Open, honest and direct. Business isn’t all that hard, or complicated, though sometimes organizations can lose sight of that. If it works, keep on doing it. If it doesn’t work, try something else. We need to make it easy to interact with our business, easy to read the paper, easy to advertise.
 










The San Diego Union-Tribune
Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to The San Diego Union-Tribune.
QUICK JYLLION SEARCHES:

