San Diego Union-Tribune announces layoffs
Don Bartletti / Los Angeles Times
About 100 of the layoffs at the San Diego Union-Tribune were in the operations department, most of them truck drivers, machinists and pressroom workers. There were also job cuts in circulation and advertising.
About 100 of the layoffs at the San Diego Union-Tribune were in the operations department, most of them truck drivers, machinists and pressroom workers. There were also job cuts in circulation and advertising.
(Don Bartletti / Los Angeles Times)
San Diego Union-Tribune cuts 178 jobs, about 30% of its staff
The San Diego Union-Tribune said Tuesday that it was laying off 178 employees, about 30% of its staff, in a cost-cutting effort that mainly affected its printing and delivery operations.
The job cuts came five days after Tribune Publishing Co., owner of the Los Angeles Times, completed its purchase of the San Diego newspaper. At the time of the acquisition, Tribune said it expected to consolidate some operations between the newspapers. Russ Newton, president and chief operating officer of the Union-Tribune, said the newspaper would move its print operations from San Diego to Los Angeles, where The Times is printed.
"One of the key drivers for this move is having the San Diego Union-Tribune printed on much better press equipment than it currently is," Newton said. "It will be a little bit better experience for the consumer."
About 100 of the layoffs were in the operations department, most of them truck drivers, machinists and pressroom workers, Newton said. There were also job cuts in circulation and advertising.
ridgeley
Jeff Light, editor of the Union-Tribune, said nine of 173 newsroom employees were let go — eight of them from U-T TV, its television operation.
"Readers of the paper should not notice any changes at all as a result of today's moves, but there will be some talented directors, producers and anchors on the job market," Light said in an email to The Times.
He said there are no plans for additional newsroom cuts.
The purchase is part of a broader strategy at Tribune Publishing — and across the newspaper industry — to buy publications in adjacent markets and increase revenue by consolidating printing, distribution and other operations.
Tribune Publishing, which also owns the Chicago Tribune, Baltimore Sun and other daily newspapers, paid $85 million in cash and stock to buy the Union-Tribune, eight community weeklies and related websites from real estate magnate Doug Manchester.
As part of the deal, Chicago-based Tribune Publishing created California News Group, which will oversee operations of Los Angeles Times Media Group and the Union-Tribune.
Twitter: @spfeifer22
Lori Weisberg, a staff writer for the San Diego Union-Tribune, contributed to this report.


Newsletter may include personalized content. Learn more .
2015-05-22 10:53:56
2015-05-26 16:54:53
2015-05-24 09:46:27
2015-05-26 14:47:26
2015-05-25 08:30:00
2015-05-22 13:54:22
Previous Story
Next Story
LA Times Acquires San Diego Union Tribune, Lays Off 1/3 Of Staff
Posted:
2 hours ago
A copy of the San Diego Union-Tribune newspaper is displayed for sale March 18, 2009 in San Diego, California.  | Sandy Huffaker via Getty Images
SAN DIEGO (AP) — San Diego's dominant newspaper on Tuesday announced the layoffs of nearly a third of its 600 employees after it was acquired last week for $85 million by Los Angeles Times owner Tribune Publishing.
The San Diego Union-Tribune said 178 employees — most in its printing and delivery divisions — would be laid off and their jobs done in Los Angeles.
"When the two companies announced that they were coming together, we said at the time there were going to be some synergies, and unfortunately for a lot of people today we're realizing those synergies," said Union-Tribune president and CEO Russ Newton.
A total of 100 people were laid off from operations, including truck drivers, machinists, electricians and pressroom workers.  Twenty-nine were cut from circulation and 36 from advertising sales and finance. Only nine of the 173 newsroom staffers were laid off, nearly all from the paper's video department.
"For readers of the newspaper, they will notice zero impact from today's layoffs," Newton said.
The workers were given two months' notice, and their severance will vary according to their union status.
The newspaper's sale for $85 million to the Tribune Co. by real estate developer Douglas Manchester was finalized on Thursday, and its name was changed back to its former name, the Union-Tribune, after going by U-T San Diego since 2011.
More:
Conversations
Options
Media
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Media
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Media
Follow
Part of HuffPost Business - AOL Money & Finance
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

