San Diego Union-Tribune announces layoffs
Don Bartletti / Los Angeles Times
About 100 of the layoffs at the San Diego Union-Tribune were in the operations department, most of them truck drivers, machinists and pressroom workers. There were also job cuts in circulation and advertising.
About 100 of the layoffs at the San Diego Union-Tribune were in the operations department, most of them truck drivers, machinists and pressroom workers. There were also job cuts in circulation and advertising.
(Don Bartletti / Los Angeles Times)
San Diego Union-Tribune cuts 178 jobs, about 30% of its staff
The San Diego Union-Tribune said Tuesday that it was laying off 178 employees, about 30% of its staff, in a cost-cutting effort that mainly affected its printing and delivery operations.
The job cuts came five days after Tribune Publishing Co., owner of the Los Angeles Times, completed its purchase of the San Diego newspaper. At the time of the acquisition, Tribune said it expected to consolidate some operations between the newspapers. Russ Newton, president and chief operating officer of the Union-Tribune, said the newspaper would move its print operations from San Diego to Los Angeles, where The Times is printed.
"One of the key drivers for this move is having the San Diego Union-Tribune printed on much better press equipment than it currently is," Newton said. "It will be a little bit better experience for the consumer."
About 100 of the layoffs were in the operations department, most of them truck drivers, machinists and pressroom workers, Newton said. There were also job cuts in circulation and advertising.
ridgeley
Jeff Light, editor of the Union-Tribune, said nine of 173 newsroom employees were let go — eight of them from U-T TV, its television operation.
"Readers of the paper should not notice any changes at all as a result of today's moves, but there will be some talented directors, producers and anchors on the job market," Light said in an email to The Times.
He said there are no plans for additional newsroom cuts.
The purchase is part of a broader strategy at Tribune Publishing — and across the newspaper industry — to buy publications in adjacent markets and increase revenue by consolidating printing, distribution and other operations.
Tribune Publishing, which also owns the Chicago Tribune, Baltimore Sun and other daily newspapers, paid $85 million in cash and stock to buy the Union-Tribune, eight community weeklies and related websites from real estate magnate Doug Manchester.
As part of the deal, Chicago-based Tribune Publishing created California News Group, which will oversee operations of Los Angeles Times Media Group and the Union-Tribune.
Twitter: @spfeifer22
Lori Weisberg, a staff writer for the San Diego Union-Tribune, contributed to this report.


Close
Search:
San Diego Union Tribune lays off 178 following purchase by LA Times publisher
KPCC staff
Show caption
SAN DIEGO, CA - MARCH 18:  A sign sits on display at the front entrance to the offices of the San Diego Union-Tribune newspaper on March 18, 2009 in San Diego, California. The Copley Press Inc. announced today that they have signed a definitive agreement to sell the Union-Tribune to private equity firm Platinum Equity.  (Photo by Sandy Huffaker/Getty Images)
Sandy Huffaker/Getty Images
The San Diego Union Tribune has laid off 178 employees, the paper announced Tuesday. The layoffs follow last week's announcement that the L.A. Times' owner Tribune Publishing Co. had completed its purchase of the paper.
Most of those who were let go worked in the paper's printing, distribution and advertising departments, the Tribune said. Those operations will, for the most part, be consolidated and moved to the Times' facilities in L.A., the paper said, adding that some of the laid-off employees will be able to apply for jobs at the paper's new printing site. 
In all, 100 operations employees, consisting mostly of truck drivers, machinists, electricians, packagers and pressroom workers, were among those laid off Tuesday. Other large staff reductions occurred in circulation where 29 employees were cut and in advertising sales and finance, which together saw their departments reduced by 36.
Within the newsroom, nine of the 173 staff members were let go, almost all of them working for U-T TV.
“When the two companies announced that they were coming together, we said at the time there were going to be some synergies, and unfortunately for a lot of people today we’re realizing those synergies,” said Russ Newton, president and chief operating officer of The San Diego Union-Tribune. “We’re going to move production up to (Los Angeles) because we have press time available.”
Tribune Publishing Co. said last Thursday that it had completed the purchase the San Diego paper from owner Douglas Manchester for $85 million. It then immediately changed the paper's name from U-T San Diego back to the San Diego Union-Tribune, as it had been known from 1992 until 2011.
Related Links
Stop and Close
474 S. Raymond Ave.

