Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
Day in the life: Working in a NICU requires dedicated nurses
Top Stories in Jobs
Heidi's pics: Tom Goodlett Estate Collection featured in local auction
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
By Mike Ward | April 9, 2015
Page 1 of 1
AUSTIN — Unable so far to get a constitutional amendment passed, the Texas Senate voted Thursday to rachet down the amount the Legislature can spend in its two-year budget through a new law instead.
During a brief partisan debate that attracted little attention late in the day, the Senate voted to approve a revised Senate Bill 9 that would redefine how the spending cap is determined — by using population growth and inflation rather than the current standard of personal income, to calculate growth.
Afterward, Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick called the action an historic step to limit government spending in future years.
The approved bill, Patrick said "will ensure that  like all other Texans, our budget addresses our needs before our wants . . . This higher standard will require the Legislature to be responsible stewards of taxpayer dollars and restrain unnecessary spending."
Such a revised cap has been debate at the State Capitol for decades, but has never been enacted into law. It was declared a priority this year by tea-party conservatives, particularly in the Senate, who had chafed that efforts to pass a measure to make the new cap a constitutional amendment appeared to have run aground.
Sen. Kelly Hancock, R-North Richland Hills, said his measure is a fiscally responsible step that will keep state spending in check in future years.
Opponents have said the change will limit the ability of future legislatures to keep up with state growth and will impede the budget-writing process.
More than $20 billion in state spending currently exempt from the existing cap on state spending would be included under the cap under the bill, Patrick and other supporters said.
By changing the cap in state law, future legislatures could vote to amend the law and change the cap again.
In its final version, the measure will go for consideration in the House, where more significant opposition looms.
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

