Sean Doolittle said he feels “more like a complete pitcher” after working on his changeup and slider while missing the first two months of the season.
“I’m not going to reinvent the wheel. I’m not going to throw knuckleballs and spitballs,” said Doolittle, who was activated Tuesday but  won’t immediately assume his closer’s role, which has belonged to Tyler Clippard , who converted four of his first five save opportunities.
With Doolittle’s velocity not up to par after he suffered a strained rotator cuff, his off-speed pitches could become a bigger part of his repertoire.
“I know he feels better about the other pitches, so you could see a different complement from him,” manager Bob Melvin said. “If you throw 97 mph, all you have to do is show it every now and then to put a doubt in someone’s head. But if you’re not throwing that hard and sometimes when you’re coming back in the fashion he is right now, it might be more important for him to use all his pitches.”
Doolittle was excited to rejoin the team, saying, “I’ve been watching these guys work their butts off for two months. The last three or four games, they’ve been playing real well, and my job is to not screw that up and try to keep that momentum going and hopefully we can start rolling.”
Briefly: With the A’s and Warriors playing home games Wednesday, the A’s are encouraging fans to use public transportation. Parking will be $20 until 1 p.m. and $40 after. First pitch is 12:35 p.m. Tip-off is 6 p.m. ... Ron Washington , who returned to the A’s as an extra coach, worked with shortstop Marcus Semien (17 errors) before the game. “I’m having fun. He’s having fun, too,” Washington said. ... Sonny Gray threw a bullpen session, and Melvin said there were no issues with his ace’s ankle. ... To make roster space for Doolittle, the A’s optioned pitcher Angel Castro to Triple-A Nashville.
On deck
TBD vs.
Gray (5-2)
Leading off
In the running: The results are in from the first week of American League All-Star voting. Stephen Vogt is second among catchers and Marcus Semien is third among shortstops.
— John Shea

