posted: April 07
posted: March 31
Updated:                                 3:00 am
Updated:                                 2:15 am
posted: April 07
posted: April 07
We accept many different kinds of announcements. Just click on the link below and submit a form.
posted: April 07
SPRINGFIELD, Mo. (AP) — Voters in Missouri's third largest city of Springfield voted Tuesday to repeal an ordinance that provided protection against discrimination in housing and hiring based on sexual orientation and gender identity.
Unofficial final results showed that repeal of the ordinance passed with 51.4 percent of the vote.
Officials with PROMO, an advocacy group for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in Missouri, called the vote disappointing.
"We are still here for each other, and we will still work together to continue to make Springfield a welcoming place for ALL people," Promo Executive Director A.J. Bockelman said in a statement. "Tomorrow, just as today, we continue working to achieve equality."
A message seeking comment from supporters of the repeal effort, the "Yes on Question 1" committee, was not immediately returned.
The Springfield City Council passed the law in October, but opponents quickly began a petition drive to repeal it, forcing the public vote. Springfield has about 165,000 residents.
Opponents of the nondiscrimination ordinance have said it violates their freedoms by preventing them from operating a business according to their religious beliefs. Others have said that sexual predators would be allowed to use women's restrooms and have questioned whether discrimination against gay and lesbian residents actually occurs.
Passage of religious freedom laws in Indiana and Arkansas recently drew a backlash especially from business leaders, and those states hastily tweaked the laws to address concerns that it would allow discrimination against gays and lesbians.
Missouri considered a similar measure in 2014 when a Republican lawmaker introduced a bill, but it never made it to a vote.
Rules of Conduct
1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.
3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.
4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.
Welcome to the discussion.
Screen Name or Email
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
facebook
google
yahoo
aol

