Study: Many Hospitals Stop Giving Free Formula to New Moms - WSET.com - ABC13
Posted:
CHICAGO (AP) -- Many U.S. hospitals have abandoned sending breastfeeding new moms home with formula freebies. Government researchers have found a big decline in the practice they say discourages nursing.
A federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study found that in 2013, just under one-third of U.S. maternity wards offered baby formula giveaways, versus nearly three-fourths in 2007. Rates vary by region and the practice is much more common at hospitals in some Midwestern and Southern states than on both coasts.
The study is published online Monday in Pediatrics.
Public health efforts, including the World Health Organization's Baby-Friendly Hospital initiative, discourage free baby formula because of health benefits that breastfeeding provides infants and their mothers.
The American Academy of Pediatrics and other medical groups recommend that babies receive only breast milk for their first six months, but data show that occurs for just 20 percent of U.S. infants.
Most Popular StoriesMost Popular Stories More>>
  
Altavista, VA - A community is mourning the loss of a beloved friend and family member. Jermaine Witcher died Monday while teaching in China. His family want to bring his body home but it will cost thousands.
                                                   
Lynchburg, VA -A new study on the best states to raise your kids gives Virginia a failing grade. 
               
Lynchburg, Va - Looking at the surveillance pictures, it is hard to believe two suspected thieves weren't posing for the camera.         
  
South Boston, VA -Residents in one local neighborhood say a vacant lot full of dogs is causing a nuisance. 
                          
Lynchburg, VA - Memorial Day weekend took a tragic turn for one Lynchburg family after a car collided with a motorcycle in Campbell County.
  
Halifax County, Va.-The Halifax County Commonwealth's Attorney's Office tells ABC 13 they have appointed a special assistant to help in a case involving the South Boston Police Department. 
  
Vinton, VA - A man is dead after his vehicle crashed into a utility poll Monday, according to police.
All content © Copyright 2000 - 2015 WorldNow and WSET. All Rights Reserved.

