Secret Service apologizes to Jason Chaffetz more than embarrassing leak probe underway
Rep. Jason Chaffetz received individual apologies from Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Secret Service Director Joseph Clancy after facts that he as soon as had been rejected as a job applicant by the safety agency were leaked to a reporter."Secretary...
Rep. Jason Chaffetz received individual apologies from Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Secret Service Director Joseph Clancy after facts that he as soon as had been rejected as a job applicant by the safety agency were leaked to a reporter.
"Secretary Johnson has called for an investigation and if the allegations in the report are accurate, those accountable should really be held accountable," stated Marsha Catron, a spokeswoman for the Division of Homeland Security.
She stated Johnson apologized to Chaffetz, R-Utah, for "getting put in a circumstance that he had to acknowledge a matter that must have been kept confidential."
Chaffetz said he wouldn't let the episode alter his investigation into safety lapses involving the Secret Service.
"I will be professional about it. It is disconcerting, but I have a job to do and I will continue to do it," he stated, noting the calls from Johnson and Clancy. "They assured me they will get to the bottom of it and I believe it when they say it is wholly unacceptable."
The Day-to-day Beast reported Friday that Chaffetz had applied to the Secret Service in either 2002 or 2003 and received a rejection letter. Chaffetz mentioned it was mainly because he was also old (he would have been 36) to apply.
Chaffetz is the chairman of the Home Oversight and Government Reform Committee and has been extremely important of the Secret Service for a series of current missteps, such as when a man jumped a fence and produced it into the White Property. In March, two intoxicated agents drove into a White House barricade next to an ongoing investigation of a suspicious package.
Pretty much right away just after The Every day Beast story appeared on the net, senior Oversight Committee aides contacted the Homeland Security's inspector basic, saying sources within the agency believe Chaffetz's Secret Service application was leaked in an attempt to embarrass him. Johnson then named for an investigation.
Chaffetz stated he applied to the Secret Service and possibly, the FBI, in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. He downplayed his interest in a law-enforcement job.
"It was about ten minutes of my life and that's it," he mentioned."I didn't take it personally then or now and neither really should they."
Chaffetz eventually moved on to manage Jon Huntsman's profitable campaign for Utah governor in 2004. He was elected to the U.S. Home in 2008.
Rep. Elijah Cummings, the top rated Democrat on the Oversight Committee, reacted strongly to the suspected leak.
"If these claims are accurate, I discover them exceptionally problematic and disturbing," the Maryland Democrat told The Hill. "It continues to erode the credibility of 1 of our most significant agencies."
The leak came just two days after Chaffetz subpoenaed two Secret Service agents who were present when colleagues drove by way of the active bomb investigation. Clancy refused to make those agents offered.
Chaffetz argued that, without having the agents' testimony, the committee could not perform its oversight role.
Johnson disagreed, releasing a statement saying: "I regret that Chairman Chaffetz and his staff have taken the unprecedented and unnecessary step of subpoenaing two members of the U.S. Secret Service with the duty for the protection of the president, his family members and the White Residence complicated," he said. "Director Clancy and I ought to fight to safeguard them against the visibility, public glare, and inevitable second-guessing of a congressional hearing."
The committee has yet to schedule that hearing.
"[The Secret Service] has a deep cultural problem," Chaffetz stated, "and we are going to continue or investigation."
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
03 April 2015 Friday 19:24
232 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.

