 |  By                                                                      By The Associated Press
Posted:
U.S. Sen. John McCain has announced he will run for re-election in 2016.
The Arizona Republican made the announcement to run for a sixth term on Monday in an interview with NBC News (http://nbcnews.to/1NPIYdU). He is the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
McCain uses his position as chairman to criticize President Barack Obama on national security.
"I have never been more concerned about the security of this nation because of the feckless leadership of the president of the United States," he said.
McCain, 78, will be 80 by Election Day, but he said his Senate career is "just getting started."
Tea party groups see him as a top challenge in a primary, and conservatives have criticized him as too liberal. He ran for president in 2008.
To win, McCain said he will emphasize issues in Arizona, such as the drought, his work to benefit a copper mine and legislation to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The VA was thrown into turmoil last year amid allegations of misconduct and cover-ups at the VA hospital in Phoenix. Investigators say veterans' health was jeopardized when employees covered up long wait times for patients.
Also on HuffPost:
of


On Valentine's Day, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) tweeted out a Hillary Clinton parody Pinterest account. The profile, which Pinterest removed  citing terms of service violations, featured a "White House Remodel" board and a series of memes highlighting several Clinton gaffes and scandals.
In January, Paul tweeted out a satirical "secret phone call" between former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and Hillary Clinton. The fake call lampoons the dynastic relationship between the Bush and Clinton clans, making repeated references to famous gaffes from both families.
After Mitt Romney and Jeb Bush met in January, Paul tweeted images from a fake gift exchange between the two former governors. The tweets dissed Romney's two failed presidential campaigns and Bush's support for the Common Core education standards.
Airing his grievances online in December, Paul poked fun at former Sen. Rick Santorum's sartorial staple, tweeting "We all know having a fashion forward campaign is important to success, as @RickSantorum showed us in 2012."
After several high-profile Republican victories in the 2014 elections, Paul took to Facebook to highlight the ties between Clinton and failed Senate candidates like Allison Lundergan Grimes and former Mississippi Sen. Mary Landrieu, creating a #hillaryslosers hashtag and posting memes.
In January, The Daily Beast reported that RandPAC, Sen. Paul's Super PAC, had purchased targeted Google ads for search terms related to possible 2016 contenders Gov. Jeb Bush and Gov. Mike Huckabee. The paid ads dissed Huckabee for raising taxes and Bush for supporting Common Core education standards.
After Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fl.) dismissed Sen. Paul's foreign policy credentials, Paul shot back on Twitter. "Senator @marcorubio is acting like an isolationist who wants to retreat to our borders and perhaps build a moat. I reject this isolationism," Paul said.
Taking more shots at Bush, Romney and Clinton, Paul tweeted "The same old candidates running for President #ThingsToRunFrom."
Long before they  took their feud to cable television, Paul "gleefully" engaged New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie in a Twitter beef over debt and national security.
Sen. Paul needled some of his less adventurous Washington peers, tweeting "This year @MotherJones named me best dressed in Washington.  Of course everyone else is wearing a blue suit, so it isn't really a contest,"Paul tweeted.
 Share
 Tweet
More:
Conversations
Options
Politics
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Politics
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Politics
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

