Selling sex toys on state time amongst DNR disciplinary circumstances
Madison — The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources disciplined a number of employees final year for alleged infractions like sexual harassment, operating a sex toy business enterprise on state time and posting insulting remarks about the public on...
Madison — The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources disciplined a number of employees final year for alleged infractions like sexual harassment, operating a sex toy business enterprise on state time and posting insulting remarks about the public on the net, agency records show.
The records also indicate a ranger was fired for attempting to use his badge to stay clear of a traffic citation. A further was suspended for involving a ride-along observer in a high-speed chase.
The agency sent 20 letters reprimanding, suspending or firing workers in 2014. The DNR, which employs about two,300 workers, released 19 of the letters to The Connected Press as component of an open records request. It withheld the 20th letter for the reason that it said that worker is challenging its release in court.
The disciplined staff quantity to less than 1% of the agency's roughly two,300 workers.
A February letter accuses Teague Prichard, a state lands specialist, of sexually harassing 3 female co-workers in a hotel bar in Appleton following a forestry meeting in January. The letter alleges he rubbed one particular of the women's thighs and referred to as her stunning and sexy. He then started rubbing one more co-worker's back even though simultaneously rubbing the third woman's thigh. When the third lady commented on his conduct, Prichard allegedly suggested she was dressed inappropriately. The letter counts as an unpaid 3-day suspension.
Prichard didn't respond to email and voicemail messages seeking comment.
Arahseris Cerna, an employee at the DNR's Sturtevant Service Center, was reprimanded in April for allegedly conducting personal small business on the job. According to her letter, she worked on the side for a business that sells sex goods through in-property gatherings and she passed out brochures and delivered products to DNR colleagues at the service center.
An additional letter indicates Caitlin Carmody, an employee who answered the phone at the Wausau Service Center, was suspended for 1 day in August. According to the letter, Carmody posted comments on Facebook working with her perform computer system on state time in June. One comment stated she hated her job and an additional series of posts created entertaining of calls she had received.
No listing for Cerna or Carmody could be discovered on the DNR's web site or in the state employee directory and no residential listings could be identified for them. Neither get in touch with center had contact data for them.
Ranger Eric Wachdorf was fired in September for improperly making use of his DNR-issued badge to avoid a citation for a site visitors violation, one more letter shows. The letter doesn't give any more details but on line court records do not list any site visitors citations against Wachdorf. He did not respond to a voicemail left at what may well be his residence quantity.
Ranger Matthew Wilhelm was suspended for a day in December for improperly engaging in a higher-speed pursuit of a automobile in Palmyra in June with a ride-along observer in his car, another letter said. The chase reached speeds of about 85 mph in foggy conditions with restricted visibility, tremendously increasing the risk of injury or death, the letter stated. Wilhelm didn't respond to an e-mail or a voicemail left at his workplace.
Yet another letter shows that Robert Lauer, a fisheries worker who was suspended for five days in 2013 for punching a co-worker, was fired in July for failing to notify a supervisor he intended to take trip time, arriving for perform late and leaving early, sleeping overnight in the Asylum Bay Fish Station and working with the station's stove to cook his dinner. No residential listing for Lauer could be located.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

