Search
Photo
Senator Ted Cruz of Texas criticized Hillary Rodham Clinton during a speech to the N.R.A. on Friday.Credit Harrison Mcclary/Reuters
Nearly every potential Republican presidential contender will be speaking Friday on a single issue: gun rights.
As First Draft considered how best to parse their speeches at the National Rifle Association’s Leadership Forum in Nashville, we hit on a bullet-point approach. And yes, that sent us down a gun-pun rabbit hole. (Or was it into a foxhole?) Senator Ted Cruz of Texas addressed the forum.
NRA Rating: A+
Guns Owned: Two
Bull’s-Eye: Mr. Cruz recalled sending a letter to Harry Reid following the Sandy Hook tragedy promising to “filibuster any legislation that undermines the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms.” That comment was met with an extended standing ovation.
Misfire: None. He relied heavily on the stump speech he has been polishing as the first Republican to announce his candidacy.
“Cold Dead Hands” Moment: Recalling the beginnings of the Texas Revolution, Mr. Cruz said: “If Hillary Clinton is going to join with Barack Obama and the gun grabbers and come after our guns, then what I say, is come and take it.”
Other Ammo: As part of his stump, he often talks about  Iran and “repealing Obamacare,” and he touched on nearly all of those issues.
Cross Hairs: He pulled no punches with his criticism of President Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton on their foreign policy. He also repeated his favorite line about the Ready For Hillary Super Pac making its first hire: head of email security.
Pump Action: Even in front of over a crowd of more than 4,000, Mr. Cruz enjoyed the call-and-response that follows him on the campaign trail.
About First Draft
First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com .
Politics Newsletter
We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.

