Paul tells POLITICO how he hopes to win the White House.
LOUISVILLE – Sen. Rand Paul, sitting down with POLITICO an hour after announcing his presidential bid, repeatedly attacked the honesty of Hillary Clinton and what he called the “shenanigans” of her family foundation — a window into his plan to make an issue of her character even during the Republican primaries.
“There’s a lot of stuff there that is, I think, going to shake the confidence of Americans in her ability to lead in an honest fashion,” Paul said in shirtsleeves and cowboy boots, during a lull before he boarded a charter jet for New Hampshire to continue his five-day, six state announcement tour.
Story Continued Below
Laying the groundwork for the months ahead, Paul savaged Clinton for the handling of her email as secretary of state: “She’s saying: Well, you need to trust me even though I broke the rules, and maybe the law to begin with. … I think a lot of Americans are going to say: ‘Hmm, that doesn’t sort of pass the smell test.’”
And he lit into the “trail of money” to the Clinton Foundation from Middle East governments that abuse women, and from donors who may have benefited from State Department action. (The foundation denies that its use of foreign funding has been in any way improper.)
During the interview and at his rally-style announcement speech, Paul deliberately cultivated a more mainstream image than the fringier vibe that drew rabid but motley crowds to his father, then-Rep. Ron Paul, during his runs for president in 2008 and 2012.
There were no “Audit the Fed!” posters – that staple of Ron Paul rallies — in his son’s ballroom at the Galt House Hotel on the Ohio River in rainy Louisville.
Admission was controlled by online-issued Eventbrite tickets. No supporters were allowed to bring in their own signs. So TV cameras picked up only messages that stuck to approved slogans like the longtime “Stand with Rand,” and the brand-new “Defeat the Washington Machine.”
Trying to put an appealing face on harsh charges about Clinton and his GOP opponents, Paul leavened his jabs with a dash of playfulness.
Asked how he’d manage his email as president, he said: “Hmm, let’s see. Maybe I get like a private server and then when people start asking for my emails, I take a sledgehammer and I break the — oh, no, that’s already been done. So, no, I probably won’t do that.”
Then he switched abruptly back to serious: “I think you should obey the law and I think nobody should be above the law. And I think, clearly, Hillary Clinton, by all appearances, seemed to be evading the law. … [T]he whole idea that she evaded the federal law … is something that’s going to trouble a lot of American voters.”
“[Y]ou combine that with the shenanigans that have been going on at the Clinton Foundation,” Paul continued. “We see this trail of money that’s going roundabout from government to foundations to Bill Clinton to shareholders of big companies that had to be approved by Hillary Clinton when she was secretary of state.”
On why he would be a better nominee than Jeb Bush, Paul said: “It’s … a little bit like Clinton: yesterday’s news, in the sense we’ll get more of the same. … [F]or a long time in our country, people have wanted to go with safe. ‘Oh, this is safe: His brother has been president, his dad has been president. Let’s go with safe.’”
“Well, Romney was kind of safe and we maybe didn’t excite enough voters to actually win. … Frankly, the question is whether or not in this increasingly diverse country of ours, whether or not you can excite enough voters to command a majority. And I’m pretty sure that safe isn’t going to win anymore.”
As to his father, Paul said: “We don’t agree on everything, but not everybody agrees with their dad on everything. … There are a lot of people who actually became involved in politics because of him. And I think my job is to take what he started and make it bigger.”
Here are some of Paul’s comments on other topics, including privacy, his non-interventionist foreign policy, and his omission of the word “libertarian” from his announcement:
One of your biggest applause lines … in your announcement speech was when you held up your iPhone. Is that going to be a regular thing?
“I think young people particularly relate to it. But, anymore: anybody. Everybody is dependent on their phone and they don’t understand why all of their whereabouts, all of their records, all of this should be collected by the government and kept in storage without any kind of suspicion, without a warrant. …
Rand Paul plans campaign against Hillary Clinton honesty
“I’m the same way. I just think that my life is private. I think about my Visa bill. … [I]f you look at my Visa bill and you say: ‘Do I gamble? Do I smoke? Do I drink alcohol?’ Well, it’s none of your damn business. … [M]ost people get that kind of visceral reaction that what you do in your private sphere isn’t the government’s business. And so I think people do react to that. And I don’t think the president or anybody in Washington has figured out how visceral and how strong the reaction is against these invasions of our privacy.”
Your foreign policy is the single biggest issue that gives Republicans pause. How do you fight that?
“There was a poll in Iowa recently that asked: Do you believe that the U.S. should be more involved around the world, like John McCain, or less involved around the world, like Rand Paul? … About half the party is with me on this. About half the party was with McCain on this. But if you put it: Are you ready to now send troops into Libya, Iraq, Syria, and Nigeria? … I think some people might pause and say: You know, what? Maybe we ought to think of … defending our interests, but not necessarily having troops everywhere all the time.”
One Republican said to me: ‘Iran and ISIS killed Rand’s campaign’ —- that now that national security foreign policy is so top of the mind for voters, it makes it much harder for you.
“If I had to guess, that person lived inside the Beltway, all right? People inside the Beltway don’t know anything about America, OK? Occasionally they should travel beyond the Beltway and meet Americans, OK? Because most Americans, I think, they want us to do something about ISIS. But if you ask Americans: Are you ready to send a hundred thousand American troops back into Iraq … most of them are going to pause and say … ‘If the Iraqis are unwilling to fight for Mosul, should we do the fighting for them? If the Saudis are unwilling to fight, should we do their fighting for them? Should we fight for the Kuwaitis, the Turks, everybody else? When are they going to stand up and fight?’ So I think really you’ll find that there’s a mixture of opinion on this that isn’t so monolithic, particularly once you get outside the Beltway.”
You remember the Subway Series that [ABC’s] Jon Karl does on the Senate subway. You rode along with him in 2011.
“Boy, that was a mistake, wasn’t it? Nah, I’m just kidding ya.”
And Jon asked you: ‘Would you leave any foreign aid intact.’ … And you said: ‘No.’ You repeated that. You said: ‘No, I just don’t think you can give people’s money away.’ Is that your view today?
“You know, everybody keeps asking me about this because they say: ‘Oh, your opinion changed. You used to be for getting rid of all foreign aid. Now you’re for getting rid of most of the foreign aid.’ The bottom line is it should always be the ultimate goal of us not to give away money we don’t have. It never makes us stronger to borrow money from China to send it to Pakistan.”
“But if you’re going to make choices on who you eliminate the aid from, first, hmm, why don’t we start with the countries that burn our flag and hate us? And people say, ‘Well, what about Israel?’ And I say: ‘Look, Israel is a great ally. I’ve been to Israel. Nobody in Israel burns our flag. They hoist our flag up and they like us as a country.’ … [S]o … if we’re asking the American people where should we start, I’ll bet you 75, 80, maybe 90 percent of the American people are with me: Why don’t we start with countries that are burning our flag?”
The establishment thinks that you’re a hipper version of your out-there father. What do you do about that?
[Chuckles.] “I’m not sure if I have the ability to define what hip is, but I think that freedom is always a very modern idea. … You know, my dad is a great guy. I have a great deal of respect for my dad. My dad is probably one of the most honest, genuine characters in American political history.”
[POLITICO reporter] James Hohmann noticed that [in the announcement speech,] you talked about conservatives, liberals. You never mentioned the word ‘libertarian.’ How come?
“I don’t shy away from labels, but I think they can be all-consuming sometimes. I think the label that I’ve always — I’ve chosen more often than not is actually ‘constitutional conservative.’”
“My favorite are the articles on the Internet that blare: ‘Rand Paul is not a libertarian.’ Guess what? I’m a Republican, you know? When I describe it, I say ‘I’m libertarian-ish,’ which means I have some libertarian impulses … I’m very conscious and aware of personal liberty, and I’m very aware that we can have too much intervention with our foreign policy.”
I was told to ask you about an unusual hobby you have.
“An unusual hobby that I have. I’m sorry, I don’t know if I have a good one for you.”
How about composting?
“Well, that is a hobby of mine. I don’t know if it’s unusual or not. But we are composters. In fact, I built my compost bins with the old wood from my kids’ tree fort, which I built 20 years ago. And it was going to hell in a hand basket, so I made it into a compost bin.”
Authors:

