State budget leaves problems unresolved
Folks watch from the gallery as spending budget bills are debated in the Senate Chamber at the Capitol on Tuesday.(Photo: Mike Groll, AP)ALBANY – Gov. Andrew Cuomo packed most of his agenda into the state spending budget this year, linking just about each...
Folks watch from the gallery as spending budget bills are debated in the Senate Chamber at the Capitol on Tuesday.(Photo: Mike Groll, AP)
ALBANY –  Gov. Andrew Cuomo packed most of his agenda into the state spending budget this year, linking just about each primary concern to a different a single.
But some of the initiatives were taken out of the $142 billion spending budget that was authorized Wednesday, leaving key battles ahead for the duration of the legislative session that runs until June 17.
Cuomo mentioned his major priorities – education and ethics reform and spending a $five billion windfall from bank settlements – had been included in the budget deal. He stated his original proposal sought to lay out the essential problems for the price range and the rest of the session.
"Quite a few of the other products that have been in the price range, a statement of priority, I think in them, but we also have a legislative session where we can get a lot of these factors done," Cuomo told reporters March 28.
The budget integrated plans to develop new teacher evaluations, move teacher tenure from 3 to four years and enhance state aid to schools by much more than $1.3 billion. It also integrated new disclosure guidelines for lawmakers who have outside earnings.
Cuomo was in a position to keep in the price range a $1.five billion upstate economic improvement fund that seven regions of the state, such as the Southern Tier, Rochester area and Hudson Valley, can compete for. 3 winners would get $500 million every single over five years. The funds came from the bank settlements, as properly as $1.three billion to fund the state Thruway and a new Tappan Zee Bridge in the Hudson Valley.
But other main points of the Democratic governor's second-term agenda faced pushback from the Legislature.
For example, Assembly Democrats wanted a minimum-wage improve. Unable to get the Senate Republicans to go along, Democrats held up Cuomo's $1.7 billion plan to offer property-tax rebates to middle-class property owners, which the GOP supported.
"New Yorkers spend the highest taxes in the nation. Families are drowning in all of the taxes and charges," mentioned Assemblyman Kieran Michael Lalor, R-Fishkill, Dutchess County. "This budget doesn't offer desperately required tax relief."
Supplying tuition help for immigrants in the country illegally, called the Dream Act, and raising the age for juveniles to be treated as adults in criminal instances, called the Raise the Age campaign, have been also place off. So also was enacting a uniform sexual assault policy on college campuses.
Some lawmakers vowed to press for the adoption of the bills before the Legislature leaves for the year. They are on a two-week recess and scheduled to return April 21 for the final, two-month push.
The Dream Act is a top rated issue for Latino members of the Legislature, whilst Cuomo has stressed the significance of rising the age of juvenile offenders so they can get rehabilitation rather than jail time.
"We have a budget that bars a entire generation of 'Dreamers' from bettering themselves via challenging operate and education," mentioned Karen Scharff, co-chair of the union-backed Operating Families Party. "It fails to raise the age, meaning that New York stands as a single of only two states exactly where 16-year-olds are charged as adults."
Republicans, although, won the Senate majority last year in aspect on operating against the Dream Act and have shown no willingness to adjust their stance. Cuomo, who won a second term last year, tried to tie the concern to education tax credits that would be available for donations made to public and private schools, but it didn't function.
Senate Republicans and Cuomo have been below stress from Catholic schools to get the education tax credit into the price range.  Cardinal Timothy Dolan, the archbishop of New York, said state leaders "once more could not deliver for the young children of our state." Democrats have not supported the measure, which is also opposed by teachers' unions.
"But we have no option but to turn to them once more and implore them to please pass this legislation as soon as and for all before the close of the legislative session," Dolan said in a statement.
The ethics package had one piece left undone: Enabling judges to strip convicted lawmakers of their pensions. The Assembly didn't adopt the measure, which is backed by both homes, as they worked till three a.m. to finish passing spending budget bills.
The bill has assistance in the Assembly, although, and Speaker Carl Heastie has vowed it will be taken up quickly just after they return. It would be a constitutional amendment that would have to be passed by two consecutive legislatures and authorized by voters in as early as 2017.
"It is about time New York state enacted this prevalent-sense proposal to deter corruption in our government," said Assemblyman David Buchwald, D-White Plains, in a statement.
Some measures were funded in the spending budget, even though they stay unresolved.
The spending budget integrated $25 million to support municipalities fund the Raise the Age initiative and $110 million to establish facilities to property the juveniles.
The price range also consists of $60 million to deliver new bulletproof vests and bulletproof glass for patrol cars, as well as physique cameras for police, following a gunman killed two officers in Brooklyn in December.
But the cash for the equipment is tied to enacting reforms to the grand-jury method and developing an independent monitor in police-involved deaths — proposals that came in the wake of the Eric Garner's death final summer time right after an officer strangled him on Staten Island.
Assembly Democrats elected Heastie in January right after then-Speaker Sheldon Silver was arrested on corruption charges, and Heastie vowed to give them a bigger voice throughout budget talks.
Heastie, D-Bronx, stated far more function is left for the session.
"While we have delivered a fiscally responsible price range to the people of this state, we will also continue to fight for the reforms and investments that will strengthen our families and uplift all New Yorkers," Heastie stated in a statement.
JSPECTOR@Gannett.com
Twitter.com/gannettalbany
Problems left unresolved in Albany
The state Legislature is on a two-week break, returning April 21. There are a lot of concerns awaiting them. The session runs till June 17.
Tuition help: Called the Dream Act, the measure would deliver tuition assistance to students in the country illegally. Supporters say the students are already in public schools and ought to get the assist for their education critics say it is unneeded.
Raise the age: The measure, proposed by Gov. Andrew Cuomo, would raise the age for juveniles to be treated as adults in criminal situations, no longer treating 16 and 17-year-olds as adults in most cases. Democrats assistance it Republicans want adjustments.
College campuses: Cuomo has also proposed tougher sexual assault policies on college campuses. Though SUNY's 64 campuses has installed the policies, it would apply to all public and private schools under law. It really is a difficult bill that lawmakers mentioned requires additional study.
Minimum wage: Cuomo desires to raise the minimum wage from $9 an hour at year's finish to $10.50 an hour by the finish of 2016. Advocates want it to go to as higher as $15 an hour in New York City, but Republicans have balked.
Home-tax relief: Cuomo proposed a $1.7 billion strategy that would present rebates to middle-class property owners. But Democrats blocked the measure mainly because they want a minimum wage boost, and Republicans want it to be a rebate verify rather than a credit.
Pension forfeiture: Permitting judges to strip convicted lawmakers of their pensions was element of an ethics package authorized as aspect of the state price range. It was left out at the final minute, even though it is anticipated to pass this year.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

