By KIMBERLEE KRUESI and RYAN STRUYK  Associated Press
First Posted: April 11, 2015 - 4:01 am
Last Updated: April 11, 2015 - 4:04 am
We also have more stories about:
(click the phrases to see a list)
Organizations:
BOISE, Idaho — The Idaho Legislature adjourned early Saturday morning after spending 90 days introducing new bills and fine-tuning Idaho's laws.
The session was alternately contentious and congenial, with lawmakers, lobbyists and state executives sparring over instant horse racing machines, child support enforcement and some budget decisions.
Lawmakers didn't get everything they wanted, but top issues such as increased education funding and a solution to help make a dent to Idaho's transportation revenue shortfalls were accomplished.
Here are some of the highlights of the 2015 session:
MAJOR BILLS PASSED:
— TEACHER PAY HIKE
A sweeping 7.4 percent education budget increase to next year's state budget means that Idaho teachers are finally getting a raise. Rookie teacher salaries will boost by almost $1,000 up to $32,700 per year in July. Over the next five years, if lawmakers continue to allocate funding, first-year teachers will make $37,000 each year. The plan also includes accountability guidelines that provide oversight for the expensive proposal.
—TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
After several failed plans and proposals, it took a special six-member conference committee to negotiate a $95 million compromise that partially addresses Idaho's roads funding shortfall. The proposal to raise fuel taxes by 7 cents per gallon and increase registration fees by $21 will still address less than half of the $262 million shortfall that the state has faced each year since 2010 just to maintain its crumbling roads and bridges.
— CONCEALED CARRY
The Idaho Legislature clarified that Idahoans can carry concealed weapons outside city limits with a permit. In a broad rewrite of the state's weapons code, lawmakers also set guidelines for safety courses and fees that counties can charge for permits. However, lawmakers did not remove a controversial provision that lets lawmakers carry concealed weapons with no permit. They also didn't consider so-called "Constitutional Carry" legislation, backed by second-amendment groups.
— GIANT SALAMANDER
An eighth grader's plan to name the Idaho giant salamander the official state amphibian finally became law. After five years of lobbying, 14-year-old Ilah Hickman persuaded lawmakers to designate the salamander — which is found almost exclusively in Idaho and can grow to be one foot long — as the state amphibian. The salamander joins 16 other state symbols, including the Western white pine as the state tree and square dancing as the state dancing.
— TELEMEDICINE ABORTION RESTRICTIONS
The practice wasn't even offered in Idaho before this year's legislative session, but starting July 1 Republican lawmakers made sure doctors would be officially banned from prescribing abortion-inducing drugs via telemedicine. The law also requires doctors to make efforts to schedule a follow-up visit with the woman after administering the drugs.
LEFT HANGING:
— MARIJUANA OIL
Lawmakers approved a plan that would legalize oil extracted from marijuana plants to treat children with severe epilepsy — and now the bill sits on Otter's desk. The bill was named after 10-year-old Alexis Carey, who experiences severe seizures from a form of epilepsy called Dravet Syndrome. But some say the plan is a slippery slope toward medical marijuana. It's unclear if Otter will sign the plan, which was opposed by his own drug policy office, along with law enforcement and prosecutors.
— PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY
A $2 million plan to move Idaho's presidential primary into March has passed the Legislature and is still waiting the governor's signature. Proponents say the plan will give the state more influence in the 2016 presidential primary elections. But Democrats objected, saying that taxpayers shouldn't pay for political party events. Otter is still considering whether or not to sign the bill.
WHAT DIDN'T HAPPEN:
— MEDICAID EXPANSION
No bill, no proposal, and no political will emerged to expand Medicaid eligibility in Idaho. Lawmakers heard several presentations, however, from health officials urging some sort of Medicaid expansion, but it wasn't enough to swing them into action.
— ADD THE WORDS
After fighting for nearly a decade, Republican legislative leaders finally conceded to conducting a hearing on expanding protections to gay and lesbian people in Idaho. The proposal attracted hundreds of people who shared emotional testimony from both sides of the issue. Ultimately, the bill failed to make it out of committee.
— INSTANT HORSE RACING REPEAL
Otter vetoed a plan that would have made roughly 250 slot-like betting machines illegal in the state. The instant horse racing machines have come under scrutiny since they were legalized two years ago in an effort to help the floundering horse racing industry.
All content copyright ©2015 Daily Journal, a division of Home News Enterprises unless otherwise noted.

