Published: 00:54 GMT, 27 May 2015 | Updated: 00:54 GMT, 27 May 2015
MEXICO CITY, May 26 (Reuters) - Mexico and Brazil will take steps this year to ease restrictions on bilateral trade and aim to double their shared commerce in less than 10 years, the leaders of Latin America's two biggest economies said on Tuesday.
During a visit to Mexico City, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff said in a speech talks would begin in July to try to increase the range of products included in a joint trade agreement known as ACE 53 from just over 800 to more than 6,000.
The wider accord aims to cover industrial and agricultural goods and would include new chapters relating to services, online commerce and intellectual property, among others, Mexico's President Enrique Pena Nieto said at the same event.
"Today, we're taking a qualitative leap in relations between Brazil and Mexico," Pena Nieto said.
The Mexican leader added that he hoped their efforts would help the two Latin American nations double bilateral trade, today worth some $9.2 billion, in less than a decade.
The two nations also signed deals to step up economic cooperation and investment. The latter would give investors from either country greater safeguards and was the first of its kind signed by Brazil in the Americas, Pena Nieto said.
Further agreements were signed to promote tourism and environmental cooperation, he added.
Bilateral trade between the two has had a bumpy ride in recent years with Brasilia in 2012 pushing through an auto sales quota to protect its car industry, which was due to expire this year. Mexico had hoped for a return to free trade, but instead bowed to Brazilian demands to extend quotas until 2019.   (Reporting by Joanna Zuckerman Bernstein, Alexandra Alper and Dave Graham; Editing by Cynthia Osterman)
Share or comment on this article
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Bing
Site
Web
DON'T MISS
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
 
 
 

