AP News - Oregon releases 94,000 emails from former governor&#39s fiancee
SALEM, Ore. (AP) — The state of Oregon has released 94,000 emails involving the fiancee of former Gov. John Kitzhaber, who resigned amid scandal earlier this year more than allegations that the former first lady utilized her relationship with him to land...
SALEM, Ore. (AP) — The state of Oregon has released 94,000 emails involving the fiancee of former Gov. John Kitzhaber, who resigned amid scandal earlier this year more than allegations that the former first lady utilized her relationship with him to land contracts for her business.
The emails released late Friday are messages between Cylvia Hayes and employees members in Kitzhaber's workplace.
The messages show efforts by Hayes and the governor's employees to respond to an onslaught of media questions about her consulting perform for advocacy organizations searching for to influence state government.
The emails, released in response to public records requests, also consist of notes of support from mates and allies.
Kitzhaber, a Democrat, resigned in February, saying the influence-peddling allegations surrounding Hayes had turn out to be as well significantly of a distraction. The FBI is investigating and has issued subpoenas for the emails and thousands of other records.
The documents released involve 1 from October, shortly after Hayes held a tearful press conference to acknowledge that she had accepted about $5,000 to enter a fraudulent marriage in 1997 with a man in search of immigration positive aspects.
Hayes e-mailed a reply to a man she had met at a conference who was trying to schedule a telephone conversation.
"It sounds like perhaps you have not seen the media firestorm I am in the midst of," she wrote. "It is extremely intense, painful and embarrassing. I do know it will pass as the campaign season closes. I will make a note to comply with up with you in November to set up a get in touch with."
Kristen Grainger, spokeswoman for Gov. Kate Brown, who took workplace when Kitzhaber stepped down, stated that among the thousands of documents released were internal advisories and correspondence among lawyers for the governor's workplace
"Governor Brown believes that, in view of the unique and historic circumstances surrounding these unique documents, the sturdy weight of the public interest justifies the release of these records," Grainger said in a statement.
3 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.

