Rihanna Joins Miley Cyrus in Slamming Indiana’s Anti-Gay ‘Religious Freedom’ Law
The “We Found Love” singer called out the RFRA during a concert in Indianapolis, and has a long history of standing up for gay rights.
Pop diva Rihanna joined the chorus of celebrities slamming recent “religious freedom” laws, which critics argue enables anti-gay discrimination. While onstage in Indianapolis over the weekend, the Barbadian singer expressed her political opposition to Indiana’s controversial Religious Freedom Restoration Act :
“Who's feeling these new bullshit laws that they're trying to pass around here?” she asked, rhetorically. “I say fuck that shit! I want to hear you say, ‘Fuck that shit!’ Cuz we just livin' our motherfuckin’ lives.”
She then segued into her hit song, “Live Your Life.” Watch her brief remarks:
Indiana Governor Mike Pence’s office did not immediately respond to The Daily Beast’s request for comment regarding Rihanna’s take on the state’s “bullshit” legislation.
Rihanna, as you can guess, is fairly liberal. She is a vocal supporter of President Obama , and she pissed off some of her fans over the summer when she tweeted (then promptly deleted) “#FreePalestine” during the latest Gaza War.
She’s also a staunch supporter of gay rights. Last year, the “S&M” singer shared a photo of herself on social media rocking a hat emblazoned with the logo “P6,” short for Principle 6—a campaign opposed to Russia’s anti-gay propaganda law—in the lead-up to the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. Rihanna was also one of many stars who opposed to Prop 8 , a ballot proposition that was eventually passed in California banning same-sex marriage in the state.
Rihanna’s vocal opposition to Indiana’s RFRA comes on the heels of Miley Cyrus telling Time magazine that supporters of Indiana’s anti-gay bill are “dinosaurs, and they are dying off,” before throwing her social media weight behind the gay community by tweeting the following:
Senator Cotton thinks gay community needs to get “perspective” cuz “In Iran they hang you for the crime of being gay.”
Let's stir some shit up! Senator Cotton (202) 224-2353 !!!! Happy Hippies call & express why freedom is important to us & our country!
“Politics is one bold move…” Rihanna once tweeted . Indeed it is.

