By Catholic Online (NEWS CONSORTIUM)
5/26/2015 (3 hours ago)
Pontiff also says that Internet is 'not for him'
While  frequently in the media's eye, Pope Francis in fact has little time for  the media. After making a promise to the Virgin Mary, the Pope claims  that he has not watched TV since 1990. He did not even watch the matches  of his football team San Lorenzo de Almagro back in Buenos Aires. He  had one of the Swiss Guards to update him regularly instead.
While being in the eye of the international media, Pope Francis has little time for media. He's just too busy, and pledged not to watch TV after a pledge to the Virgin Mary in 1990.
Highlights
LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - Speaking in the Argentinean newspaper La Voz del Pueblo, Pope Francis said there was no particular reason for his vow. He simply decided: "It's not for me.
"I have not watched TV since 1990. It's a promise that I made the Virgin of Carmen on the night of 15 July 1990. I told myself: 'It's not for me.'"
There are no exceptions. "I watch nothing . There is a Swiss Guard that every week tells me the results and how we are doing in the league table."
The Pope doesn't surf the Internet either. He reads only one newspaper for ten minutes in the morning.
Francis has kept up a whirlwind of work since his election two years ago. He previously claimed that he has not had a holiday since 1994.
He did acknowledge in the interview that his workload was taking its toll.
"I am under pressure. All those in government are under pressure. At the moment I feel the workload. I have a strong pace of work at the moment - it's the end of the school year syndrome with the focus on getting everything done before the end of June. There are a thousand things to be done and there are problems."
He also said in the interview that he never dreamed he would ever be Pope - nor had he dreamed of being president or an army general.
---
Copywriter 2015 - Distributed by THE NEWS CONSORTIUM
Pope Francis Prayer Intentions for May 2015
Universal: That, rejecting the culture of indifference, we may care for our neighbours who suffer, especially the sick and the poor.
Evangelization: That Mary's intercession may help Christians in secularized cultures be ready to proclaim Jesus.
By Catholic Online (NEWS CONSORTIUM)
While  frequently in the media's eye, Pope Francis in fact has little time for  the media. After making a promise to the Virgin Mary, the Pope claims  that he has not watched TV since 1990. He did not even watch the matches  of his football team San Lorenzo de ... continue reading
By Catholic Online (NEWS CONSORTIUM)
In  his brief time as the leader of the Catholic Church, Pope Francis has  done many remarkable things and has captured the world's attention. He  came off as surprisingly humble in a recent interview with a fellow  Argentinean journalist. Pope Francis says he ... continue reading
By Tony Magliano
"The God of peace is never glorified by human violence," wrote the famous Trappist monk Thomas Merton. Whether it's on an individual, city, national, or international level, violence always dishonors God, and makes bad situations worse. The recent Baltimore City riots ... continue reading
By Catholic Online (NEWS CONSORTIUM)
Pope  Francis will release his anticipated teaching document on the  environment and climate change in the coming weeks. Over the past  several years, more faith traditions have rallied behind environmental  protection. Churches have begun to press ecological ... continue reading
By Deacon Keith Fournier
We need to pray for a New Pentecost for the Church in this hour! We need  more of the Holy Spirit for the New Evangelization of the Church - so  that a renewed Church can engage in the missionary task of the Third  Christian Millennium. We need to be baptized afresh ... continue reading
By Deacon Keith Fournier
Peter's wrong choices were not the end of the story of Gods plan for his life. Peter's  denial crippled Peter emotionally and spiritually. He lost his way.  That was until he encountered the Risen Christ. There, in that  encounter, he allowed the belt of ... continue reading
By Deacon Keith Fournier
The Church was empowered by the Holy Spirit to live differently in the midst of a world awaiting the fullness of redemption, to live as a new people to lead the world back to the Father, in and through the Son. Through their experience of the Holy Spirit the early ... continue reading
By Atarah Haely (NEWS CONSORTIUM)
What constitutes being the best university is oftentimes subjective and usually in adherence to one's beliefs and practices. Choosing a college is one of the biggest decisions many people are making. Some opt for those that offer the best training in the fields of ... continue reading
By Catholic Online (NEWS CONSORTIUM)
In  discussing the role of parents educating their children, Pope Francis  in his General Audience, advised separated couples to "never, never,  never take the children hostage!" LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - The Pope spoke on the role of parents in the ... continue reading
By Abigail James (NEWS CONSORTIUM)
Sometimes getting up in the morning can be the hardest thing you'll do all day. When life's worries press down on you and take your soul hostage, the most important thing you can do for yourself is turn to God. He will always be there for you, through the good times ... continue reading
Newsletter
Frame
The most important email of the day!
Sign up to receive your FREE Catholic Online newsletters and special offers by email.
There is NO COST for the subscription.

