By -      Associated Press -                                    Tuesday, May 26, 2015
CARSON CITY, Nev. (AP) - Gov. Brian Sandoval has approved a bill extending Nevada’s statute of limitations on sexual assault cases so victims have more time to report their experience and pursue criminal charges.
Sandoval signed AB212 on Tuesday surrounded by lawmakers and supporters. The bill raises the reporting deadline on sex assaults from four years to 20 years after the date of the alleged crime.
A Nevada woman who accused comedian Bill Cosby of sexually assaulted her decades ago testified in support of the bill in March.
Proponents of the bill said it would help sexual assault victims who sometimes take years to gather the courage to file a police report.
The bill unanimously passed both the Assembly and Senate.
Shares
Shares
Question of the Day


Top Stories in US & World
Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
This week in 1991 Houston was visited by Queen Elizabeth II
Top Stories in Lifestyle
Top Stories in Jobs
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
Nevada Assembly considers plans to raise cigarette tax $1
By RILEY SNYDER, Associated Press | May 26, 2015 | Updated: May 26, 2015 7:48pm
Page 1 of 1
CARSON CITY, Nev. (AP) — A crucial part of Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval 's plan to generate $600 million to help fund education with a package of new and extended taxes found an ally Tuesday.
Several health advocates lined up during an Assembly Tax Committee hearing to support a bill that would raise cigarette taxes by $1 a pack.
Southern Nevada Health District director Joseph Iser said the proposal would raise revenue and save millions in future medical costs by reducing smoking rates.
"This will be a win-win-win for the state," he said.
The bill would increase taxes on a pack of cigarettes from 80 cents to $1.80.
Several lobbyists for Altria, a parent company of tobacco giant Phillip Morris , testified against the measure, saying it would unfairly burdens poor people who smoke at higher rates.
"You are basically saying this year that you want to take $120 million out of the pockets of your constituents," lobbyist Samuel McMullen said.
The bill, SB483, also would make permanent a group of temporary rates on payroll and sales taxes.
The "sunset taxes" were created in 2009 under a plan that would have phased them out two years after they were adopted, but lawmakers have temporarily extended them twice.
Sandoval has called on lawmakers to make the taxes a permanent part of the state's budget after years of relying on them for funding.
The measure before the tax panel is a key piece of the Republican governor's plan to generate $1.1 billion over the next two years to pay for programs to help English language learners, poor students and children who struggle to read.
The committee didn't vote on the bill Tuesday, but will likely do so before the session ends next week.
The plan passed the Senate on an 18-3 vote in May.
Featured Galleries
Hundreds of southwest Houston residents trudged back to their tornado-damaged...
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

