By -      Associated Press -                                    Tuesday, May 26, 2015
CARSON CITY, Nev. (AP) - Gov. Brian Sandoval has approved a bill extending Nevada’s statute of limitations on sexual assault cases so victims have more time to report their experience and pursue criminal charges.
Sandoval signed AB212 on Tuesday surrounded by lawmakers and supporters. The bill raises the reporting deadline on sex assaults from four years to 20 years after the date of the alleged crime.
A Nevada woman who accused comedian Bill Cosby of sexually assaulted her decades ago testified in support of the bill in March.
Proponents of the bill said it would help sexual assault victims who sometimes take years to gather the courage to file a police report.
The bill unanimously passed both the Assembly and Senate.
Shares
Shares
Question of the Day


posted: May 26
posted: May 22
posted: May 12
posted: January 13
State Superintendent of Public Instruction Dale Erquiaga says an anti-bullying bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation passed during this year’s session of the Nevada Legislature. Gov. Brian Sandoval signed the bill into law last week.
Posted: Tuesday, May 26, 2015 6:19 pm | Updated: 6:22 pm, Tue May 26, 2015.
Gov. Brian Sandoval called it one of his proudest moments as the state’s chief executive.
He was referring to the Legislature’s passage of Senate Bill 504, designed to attack the growing problem of bullying. The legislation addresses one of the governor’s key education proposals.
Sandoval signed the bill into law last week at a ceremony at Carson Middle School.
The bill, which takes effect July 1, revises the definition of bullying in state law and creates the Office of Safe and Respectful Learning within the Nevada Department of Education. The office, under the bill, must oversee a toll-free telephone hotline and a website for receiving bullying complaints, and it must provide education and training.
The new law also requires school administrators to immediately take action after receiving a report of bullying and promptly notify parents.
State Superintendent of Public Instruction Dale Erquiaga, who was appointed to the state’s top education post by Sandoval in 2013, played a key role in the governor’s anti-bullying initiative.
Erquiaga, a native Nevadan who was bullied while growing up in Fallon, discussed the new law, which he described as a model for other states, in an interview with the Sparks Tribune.
Why is this bill necessary?
I think this will be viewed as one of the most important bills passed this session. We have had such a crisis, really, in our public schools whether suicide or reports of bullying and violence in schools just in the last year. This bill is a big step forward in school climate and how safe parents should be able to feel in the public school.
Can you briefly describe how the new law will help students who are the victims of bullying?
I think it’s important to understand two things about the bill. First, it clarifies and improves our definition of bullying. We’ve drawn on other state laws on bullying, and that’s important because bullying often means one thing to one person and something else to another. So this bill sets the requirements for training, gives teachers the definition and help to identify bullying. Second, and even more importantly, this bill is about communication at home to the parent or guardian of a child. We have found that far too many parents have felt left out of the process. They either never heard that this was happening, and as a result their child committed suicide or they found out too late. Now, there are timelines for how quickly investigations must be conducted and parents must be notified. It’s really about communication to parents and providing as much information as we can.
How much money has been appropriated to implement the law and what will it fund?
There are two things. The bill itself creates an Office for a Safe and Respectful Learning Environment and provides money for a small staff. The new office will be in the Department of Education and the director will report directly to the superintendent of schools. There will be $200,000 that will go towards a hotline, improvements to our website, training materials and to the staff. So it’s a small appropriation in terms of operating costs. The hotline and staff, as well as providing schools with training, will be critical.
In addition, in the governor’s budget he requested funds for social workers and licensed behavioral health workers to be contracted where we identify a need. The budget stands at $15.8 million, with (about) $4 million in 2015-16 and $12 million in the next biennium. It’s made in block grants to hire social workers and helpers for school. We know children in need don’t always have a place to go, and families don’t always have the support they need, so we knew this would be an important step to take in creating this office.
How soon will the director be in place for the new Office for a Safe and Respectful Learning Environment?
Once the Legislature adjourns and the budget has been approved, we will be posting the job. We will conduct a search over the summer as the position will start Oct 1st.
Can you tell us your personal experience with bullying?
I was bullied in middle school and high school. I grew up in Fallon, and because I was different, like a lot of kids, I was bullied. I, in turn, found someone else to pick on in school. And that’s the crux of this bill. We want to change the conversation. Kids who are acting out are also in need as well.
By changing the conversation, we hope to change the climate so kids who are different can fit in and achieve. This kind of bullying and harassment prevents kids from learning and really puts them at risk. As I saw the kids come and testify (on the bill this legislative session), it brought back a lot of memories. I’m in my 50s now, and things have changed. Now, we live in a 24-hour-a-day world, where kids are vulnerable to cyber-bullying. And it follows you home on social media, text messages, and cell phones. This legislation is really meaningful, and we really hope to change our school climate for the better.
Posted in News , Schools on Tuesday, May 26, 2015 6:19 pm. Updated: 6:22 pm. | Tags: Gov. Brian Sandoval
Rules of Conduct
1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.
3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.
4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.
Welcome to the discussion.
Screen Name or Email
Login
google
Scheels, Sparks
All
News
Sports
Opinion
Community
Photos
Video
Screen Name or Email
Login
google

