The ballot
Candidates, listed in the order they will appear on the April 28 special-election ballot.
Ward 4:
Brandon Todd (D) — Longtime aide to former D.C. Council member Muriel E. Bowser, president of
Ward 4 Democrats
Ron Austin (D) — Former aide to Mayor Adrian M. Fenty, Bowser and Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner
Glova Scott (I) — Overnight stocker at Wal-Mart, member of the Socialist Workers Party
Douglass Sloan (D) — Former aide to Mayor Anthony A. Williams, former D.C. Council legislative analyst, ANC commissioner
Pedro Rubio Jr. (D) – Withdrew
Renee L. Bowser (D) — Labor attorney for United Food and Commercial Workers International Union; no relation to the mayor
Leon T. Andrews Jr . (D) — National League of Cities senior fellow, board member of So Others Might Eat
Edwin W. Powell (D) — Howard University professor, D.C. Human Rights Commissioner
Judi Jones (D) — Adjunct professor at UDC, ANC commissioner
Dwayne M. Toliver (D) — Attorney, former ANC commissioner, former president Ward 4 Democrats
Gwenellen Corley-Bowman (D) — Retired D.C. Public Schools teacher
Ward 8:
LaRuby May (D) — Director of nonprofit organization that focuses on real-estate development and childhood education; former Ward 8 Bowser campaign director.
Leonard Watson Sr. (D) — Former ANC commissioner, staffer to council members Marion Barry, Sandy Allen
Natalie Williams (D) — President, Ward 8 Democrats; public relations consultant
Stuart Anderson (D) –Withdrew
Sheila Bunn (D) — former deputy chief of staff to Mayor Vincent C. Gray, former chief of staff to
Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton
Marion C. Barry (D) — Son of former four-time mayor and council member Marion Barry
Keita Vanterpool (I) — Chair of the D.C. Board of Chiropractic
Eugene D. Kinlow (D) — Voting rights advocate, former president Ward 8 Democrats, radio personality
Jauhar Abraham (D) – Withdrew
Trayon “WardEight” White (D) — former member of the D.C. State Board of Education
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Editor's Picks
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

