Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
May 27, 2015 12:03 AM EDT
The Vermont senator whips up the populist excitement.
A few hours before the rally where Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders would formally announce his bid for president, a hundred-odd potential supporters gathered in a circle. They took up much of the park outside city hall, where in 1981 Sanders had taken office as the first socialist mayor of Burlington. Charles Lechner, an Occupy Wall Street organizer who had started the new (and unofficial) People for Bernie, asked the crowd to speak freely. Then he gave it a try.
"Everyone who's afraid of the word 'socialism,' please take a step in," he said.
He waited a moment. A few legs wobbled, a few heads turned, but nobody took a full step.
“He can do what Hillary Clinton can't do. He can change the composition of the electorate.”
Tad Devine, Sanders' chief political strategist
"This is great!" laughed Lechner. "I think we're gonna take a page from a famous political consultant. We're gonna turn every perceived weakness of this movement into a goddamn strength."
Bernie Sanders has that effect on people. If progressives could design a presidential candidate to defeat Hillary Clinton, he would not be 73 years old, white, male, and from a small blue state. Yet every Sanders win has been an impossible-looking triumph. He calls himself a "democratic socialist," a term that's supposed to lose you elections. That description is hardly controversial in Europe, and Sanders frequently cites the EU nations as models for how America should reform itself—another idea that's supposed to lose you elections.
Sanders does not lose. He won his two Senate terms with 65 and 71 percent of the vote. He won Chittenden County, home of Burlington, by 50 points. In Burlington, as Sanders finalized his announcement speech, some young supporters wore vintage T-shirts declaring how they had helped him win those races. Some older supporters wore Bernie for Mayor buttons. One even wore the slogan "As Goes Burlington, So Goes France," coined by Doonesbury's Garry Trudeau when Francois Mitterrand followed Sanders into power in 1981.
Bernie Sanders inspires legitimate political fandom, something Democrats looked to be done with after two terms of President Barack Obama. Like former Texas Representative Ron Paul, another septuagenarian with defiantly baggy suits, Sanders has watched a political movement build beneath him. Unlike Paul, who cast libertarian votes from a House district, Sanders has an example—Burlington—to cite whenever someone doubts that his politics can govern.
"Ron Paul's campaign was an example of something created by entrepreneurial activists," said Lechner. "We're hoping the same thing can happen with Bernie."
Paul inspired slogans and kitsch that he never would have brainstormed on his own. Sanders's own campaign launch was celebrated by a number of Vermont artists, who had never delved in politics before "Bernie" (nobody calls him "Senator Sanders") decided to run. When the announcement date was official, artist David Klein assembled a diorama starring Sanders and his dog, Beanie. "It could become an icon," he half-joked in an interview. Artist dug Nap (lowercase "d," like kd lang) created a series of posters, Gouache on board, somewhere between campaign agitprop and outsider paintings.
Dug Nap
Dug Nap
"The thing that attracts me about Bernie is that he's very passionate about what he believes in," said Nap. "I don't claim to know all the issues, but I agree with a lot of where he's coming from and I think we need a change in this country."
Sanders had inspired songs, too. Julia Davis, who'd moved to a Vermont farm just a week before the campaign launch, celebrated with a song about her political here. "You know that I loved Hillary for quite some time/ well that time is done," sang Davis. "She's just another vessel of lies, backed by Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch and the rest of Wall Street —oh no." The lyrics, Davis told Bloomberg News, were brainstormed when she imagined a conversation between herself and a Sanders newbie or skeptic, "without any jargon."
The members of Bernie Nation have a few things in common. They are generally, but not entirely, on the left. To them, there is nothing particularly radical about a politician calling for expanded Social Security, "Medicare for all," higher tax brackets, free college tuition, taxing carbon, and breaking up the largest financial institutions. (It helps if you live in close proximity to Francophone Canada.) 
On Tuesday, at the People for Bernie rally, all of those action items had a hearing. The rally developed along the lines of a classic Occupy gathering, with a volunteer leading a "People's microphone," in which activists repeated the words of whoever had the floor. It started rustily, with one student hearing her every "you know" and "I mean" echoed as she insisted that her peers were ready to organize if people reached out to them. 
"That was a test," said Winnie Wong, one of the Occupy activists who'd organized the event. "Let's try again!"
They tried again, then broke into groups, and momentum built as the activists agreed that a movement around a real Democratic Party primary could bring out people who never bother to vote. One man, long hair tumbling on his grassroots "Bernie" T-shirt, regaled a group about the work he'd done for Jerry Brown's 1992 presidential campaign, an insurgency that capped maximum contributions at $100. Another talked about Zephyr Teachout's surprisingly potent campaign for governor of New York in 2014, which embarrassed Governor Andrew Cuomo in his own Democratic primary. No prior campaign had been as promising as the one offered by Sanders.
"We may be disappointed," said Stephen Marshall, a receptionist who'd walked over from his office. "But we won't be as disappointed as we'd be with anyone else."
Several times, the people assembled in the park worried that the country would simply be ungovernable if no one tackled economic inequality. "We're going to have civil unrest if we do not deal with the obvious problems we have right now," said Lalita Karoli, who'd brought one of her daughters to join the rallies. "You've got kids who look at college and realize they're going to come out with $100,000 of debt—for what? Why even go, in order to fight for a job where you might make $9 an hour? I'm concerned that those kids will take to the streets."
At 3:30 p.m., after more conversations and some pizza, the dozens of activists left on the square gathered to march down to the Sanders event. They found a waterfront studded with bleachers and press risers, where the "zydeco, Cajun and Caribbean" band Mango Jam was setting up to play an hour or so of jams. A queue formed in front of a table of free Ben and Jerry's ice cream. Nearby, a hula hoop salesman sold $10, $15, and $20 toys—"Hoops for Bernie"—as couples danced and twirled to zydeco music.
Julie Sohn, who'd worked for city government under Mayor Sanders, confessed that she had not always been convinced of his ability. "I hated him before he was mayor," she said. "I've loved and hated him every since. He was just so radical. Oh, my God, can you imagine? He wanted to put in after-school care—no one could dream of it.""
That was a joke. Now, she could not imagine supporting any Democratic nominee besides Sanders. "My dream ticket," she explained, "would be Bernie Sanders and Rand Paul. They both say exactly what they think."
After 4:30, the music quieted and a series of speakers started introducing Sanders. One of the first was Bill McKibben, the environmental writer and activist, who called the day's surprising and persistent heat a "great spill of solar energy over this beautiful city." He told a story about a hike that let him and his family look down on the great mountains of New Hampshire.
"Mount Washington, Mount Jefferson—maybe someday, Mount Sanders," said McKibben. "He always means what he says, and he says what he believes." 
How could Sanders play outside of Vermont? "My guess is that most ordinary people, exposed to his message, will like him just fine," McKibben said. "But billionaires have inordinate sway in the influence game, and they can recognize a real enemy when they see one."
Bernie Sanders was not the first political candidate to run on this theory. Plenty of insurgents had portrayed themselves as strapped—too honest for big money—but electable once voters realized there was a candidate they could trust. In his speech, Sanders ran through a complete social democratic agenda, from Keynesian jobs programs to single payer health care to new banking regulations. He was not trying to rebrand or repackage any of that; instead, he was betting that an electorate that never showed up had been waiting for someone to say all of this.
"He can do what Hillary Clinton can't do," said Tad Devine, Sanders' chief political strategist. "He can change the composition of the electorate."
When Sanders wrapped his speech, the PA system blasted Pete Seeger's version of "This Land is Your Land." Decades earlier, Sanders had talk-sung a cover of the song, and a recording had become an ironic viral hit. On Tuesday, the singing was handled by an audience of thousands, signing along as the senator shook hands and smiled at the people who'd decided to believe in him.
Please upgrade your Browser
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:


posted: May 27
posted: May 26
posted: May 27
posted: May 26
posted: May 26
Posted: May 18
Posted: May 18
Mike and Kay Harris of Navasota are pleased to announce the engagement and upcoming marriage…
Posted: May 05
posted: May 27
Vermont's Sanders kicks off 2016 bid from Clinton's left
Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., speaks on Tuesday, May 26, 2015 in Burlington, Vt., where he formally announced he will seek the Democratic nomination for president. (AP Photo/Andy Duback)
Andy Duback
Vermont's Sanders kicks off 2016 bid from Clinton's left
Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., speaks on Tuesday, May 26, 2015 in Burlington, Vt., where he formally announced he will seek the Democratic nomination for president. (AP Photo/Andy Duback)
Andy Duback
Vermont's Sanders kicks off 2016 bid from Clinton's left
Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., speaks on Tuesday, May 26, 2015 in Burlington, Vt., where he formally announced he will seek the Democratic nomination for president. (AP Photo/Andy Duback)
Andy Duback
Vermont's Sanders kicks off 2016 bid from Clinton's left
Margaret George of Lyndonville, Vt., left, and Hannah Frigon of Groton, Vt., wait for Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., in Burlington, Vt., Tuesday, May 26, 2015, where Sanders will formally announce he will seek the Democratic nomination for president. (AP Photo/Andy Duback)
Andy Duback
Vermont's Sanders kicks off 2016 bid from Clinton's left
Peter Bartlett of St. Albans, Vt., waits for Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., in Burlington, Vt., Tuesday, May 26, 2015, where Sanders will formally announce he will seek the Democratic nomination for president. (AP Photo/Andy Duback)
Posted: Wednesday, May 27, 2015 12:00 am
BURLINGTON, Vt. (AP) — Challenging Hillary Rodham Clinton from the left, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders kicked off his presidential bid Tuesday with a pitch to liberals to join him in a “political revolution” to transform the nation’s economy and politics.
Sanders, who entered the Democratic race in late April, formally opened his White House campaign in Burlington, where he was first elected mayor by defeating a longtime Democratic incumbent by 10 votes. Three decades later, Sanders is the underdog again, vowing to campaign on an agenda to elevate issues like income inequality, campaign finance and climate change.
“With your support and the support of millions of people throughout this country, we begin a political revolution to transform our country economically, politically, socially and environmentally,” Sanders declared to about 5,000 supporters along the shore of Lake Champlain.
“Now is not the time for thinking small,” he said. “Now is not the time for the same old-same old establishment politics and stale inside-the-Beltway ideas.”
A self-described “democratic socialist,” the 73-year-old Sanders has a following among liberals that could push Clinton to the left. In a lengthy address, the white-haired senator said there is “something profoundly wrong” when so much of the nation’s income goes to the top 1 percent of all earners.
“This grotesque level of inequality is immoral,” he said. “It is bad economics. It is unsustainable.”
His campaign kickoff in Burlington’s Waterfront Park, built on industrial land reclaimed during Sanders’ stint as mayor, offered a quintessential Vermont backdrop: a sun-splashed Lake Champlain, where boaters took in the scene from sailboats and motorboats.
The senator was praised by a lineup of supporters, including the founders of Vermont’s popular ice cream company, Ben & Jerry’s, and environmental activist Bill McKibben, who predicted the campaign might someday lead to a mountaintop named “Mount Sanders.”
Several leading Vermont Democrats were notably absent, including Sen. Patrick Leahy, Gov. Peter Shumlin and former Gov. Howard Dean, all of whom are supporting Clinton.
Liberals, some of whom are wary of Clinton, have unsuccessfully sought to draw Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren into the race. But in Warren’s absence, Sanders hopes to fill the void as he proposes ways to rein in Wall Street banks, tackle mounting college debt and create a government-financed jobs program.
Clinton is in a commanding position by any measure, far in front of both Sanders and former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley, who is expected to get into the race Saturday. The Democratic field could also grow to include former Virginia Sen. Jim Webb and former Rhode Island Gov. Lincoln Chafee.
But it remains to be seen if liberals will coalesce around a challenger to the former secretary of state or if that slice of the anti-Clinton electorate will splinter among several candidates.
Sanders, an independent in the Senate who often votes with the Democrats, has raised more than $4 million since announcing his campaign in late April and suggested in an interview with The Associated Press last week that raising $50 million for the primaries was a possibility.
In his address, Sanders made clear he would seek to be on the forefront of liberal causes. He described the economic system as “rigged” against middle-class families and vowed to raise taxes on the wealthy and corporations and to oppose trade deals that would ship jobs overseas. To counter big money in politics, he said he would push for the public financing of elections.
To build upon President Barack Obama’s health care law, Sanders supports a single-payer health care system. Instead of cutting Social Security, he said, the nation should expand Social Security benefits. To address climate change, he said, Congress should pass a carbon tax to help transition off fossil fuels.
He noted that he voted against the invasion of Iraq in 2003 — Clinton has disavowed her vote in support of it — and said the U.S. should be part of an international coalition to defeat the Islamic State group.
Sanders has introduced legislation to make tuition free at public colleges and universities, a major piece of Warren’s agenda. Clinton’s campaign has signaled that she intends to make debt-free college a major piece of her campaign, too.
Richard Robinson, a Burlington retiree who attended the rally, said it was important for Sanders to be in the race, “just to get the power in the party to listen to him — particularly Hillary.”
Posted in Politics on Wednesday, May 27, 2015 12:00 am.
Similar Stories
Most Read
Rules of Conduct
1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.
3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.
4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.
Welcome to the discussion.
Screen Name or Email
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Photos
Video
Screen Name or Email
facebook
google
yahoo
aol

