Chris O'Meara / Associated Press
During a trip to California on Sunday and Monday, Florida Gov. Rick Scott hopes to persuade local businesses and shippers to relocate across the country.
During a trip to California on Sunday and Monday, Florida Gov. Rick Scott hopes to persuade local businesses and shippers to relocate across the country. (Chris O'Meara / Associated Press)
Florida Gov. Rick Scott comes to California eyeing local businesses, shippers
Florida Gov. Rick Scott is coming to California on a mission to lure businesses in the Golden State to move across the country.
On Sunday and Monday, Scott plans to traverse the state touting Florida’s job growth and tax cuts during his four-year tenure. His schedule includes a stop Monday at a luncheon in Woodland Hills to urge local families and companies to abandon California.
He appears especially keen to boost shipping volumes to Florida’s ports, seizing on a labor dispute earlier this year that congested ports along the West Coast.
Scott sent letters  on March 12 to shipping companies describing $850 million in state funding to Florida ports during his administration and what he said were record investments in the state’s transportation network.
He also indicated that many ports in Florida were undergoing enhancements to boost their container-handling capacity.
In the letter, he also criticized high taxes and debt levels in California, blaming Gov. Jerry Brown’s “tax and spend administration.”
“We’ve made job creation a priority while Governor Brown idly watches businesses flee California,” Scott wrote.
Scott has sent letters in recent years to tech giants such as Apple Inc., Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. urging them to relocate to Florida. He has also targeted businesses in other states, including Pennsylvania and Colorado.
In 2013, Kentucky Gov. Steven Beshear sent a letter to Scott slamming what he called the latter’s “crude method of recruitment.”
But Scott is far from the only governor to target California businesses. In 2013, then-Texas Gov. Rick Perry swung through California looking to poach local companies. Arizona, Nevada and Iowa have pursued similar agendas.  
Comments

