Caption Tim Hinrichs, Alex Hinrichs
Randy Squires, AP
Tim Hinrichs, of California, lifts his 6-year-old son, Alex, to rub the nose of a bust of President Abraham Lincoln outside his tomb in Springfield earlier this month.
Tim Hinrichs, of California, lifts his 6-year-old son, Alex, to rub the nose of a bust of President Abraham Lincoln outside his tomb in Springfield earlier this month.
Gary Middendorf, Daily Southtown
Sherry Meyer, a geographer and owner of InSites Chicago, is organizing a trip to Springfield for the 2015 Lincoln Funeral commemoration. At the Palos Heights Public Library, Thursday, April 9th, 2015, in Palos Heights. (Gary Middendorf/ For the Daily Southtown)
Sherry Meyer, a geographer and owner of InSites Chicago, is organizing a trip to Springfield for the 2015 Lincoln Funeral commemoration. At the Palos Heights Public Library, Thursday, April 9th, 2015, in Palos Heights. (Gary Middendorf/ For the Daily Southtown) (Gary Middendorf, Daily Southtown)
Caption Lincoln's Final Days
Gary Middendorf, Daily Southtown
Sherry Meyer, a geographer and owner of InSites Chicago, is organizing a trip to Springfield for the 2015 Lincoln Funeral commemoration. At the Palos Heights Public Library, Thursday, April 9th, 2015, in Palos Heights. (Gary Middendorf/ For the Daily Southtown)
Sherry Meyer, a geographer and owner of InSites Chicago, is organizing a trip to Springfield for the 2015 Lincoln Funeral commemoration. At the Palos Heights Public Library, Thursday, April 9th, 2015, in Palos Heights. (Gary Middendorf/ For the Daily Southtown) (Gary Middendorf, Daily Southtown)
Gary Middendorf, Daily Southtown
Sherry Meyer, a geographer and owner of InSites Chicago, is organizing a trip to Springfield for the 2015 Lincoln Funeral commemoration. At the Palos Heights Public Library, Thursday, April 9th, 2015, in Palos Heights. (Gary Middendorf/ For the Daily Southtown)
Sherry Meyer, a geographer and owner of InSites Chicago, is organizing a trip to Springfield for the 2015 Lincoln Funeral commemoration. At the Palos Heights Public Library, Thursday, April 9th, 2015, in Palos Heights. (Gary Middendorf/ For the Daily Southtown) (Gary Middendorf, Daily Southtown)
Joe Ziccarelli, of the 64th Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, who appeared in many Civil War movies including "Glory," "Gettysburg" and "Gods and Generals," will attend the reenactment of Lincoln's funeral. At the Palos Heights Public Library, Thursday, April 9th, 2015, in Palos Heights. (Gary Middendorf/ For the Daily Southtown)
Joe Ziccarelli, of the 64th Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, who appeared in many Civil War movies including "Glory," "Gettysburg" and "Gods and Generals," will attend the reenactment of Lincoln's funeral. At the Palos Heights Public Library, Thursday, April 9th, 2015, in Palos Heights. (Gary Middendorf/ For the Daily Southtown) (Gary Middendorf, Daily Southtown)
Springfield trip from Tinley Park to commemorate funeral 150 years ago
Next month, thousands of people will head to Springfield to commemorate the 150th anniversary of President Abraham Lincoln 's death.
Sherry Meyer, of Palos Heights , wants you to be there, too.
Meyer, a historical geographer and founder of InSites Chicago, has organized "Journey of Remembrance: Lincoln Funeral Commemoration," a three-day package that coincides with events being planned by the 2015 Lincoln Funeral Coalition in Springfield.
The trip includes transportation, hotel and access to a number of one-time events, including a dinner party that features entrance to the recently built replica funeral car.
lincoln funeral
AP
This April 19, 1865 photo made available by the Library of Congress shows a procession for President Abraham Lincoln's funeral on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington.
This April 19, 1865 photo made available by the Library of Congress shows a procession for President Abraham Lincoln's funeral on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington. (AP)
Meyer, who operates tours in Chicago, has organized other history-based events, including a commemoration of Fort Dearborn. She believes the best way to understand the past is to experience it through re-enactments, commemorations and the retelling of stories.
"They help people understand how we have become the people we are," she said. "I want adults to understand how we got here but I also want the little people who will someday be adults and be our decision makers to understand that and have those connections so they can make important decisions."
She tells the Lincoln funeral story with warmth and passion.
April 14, 1865 was a day for looking forward, she said.
It had been only five days since Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee's surrender at the Appomattox Courthouse and the country was cautiously jubilant, she said.
After a night of fireworks in the nation's capital, Lincoln spent that fateful Friday meeting with policymakers and constituents at the White House. Afterward, the 16th president enjoyed a carriage ride with his wife, Mary, during which they talked about the future, about his wanting to head to California after his term was up and her preferring they go to Europe, Meyer said.
The couple had dinner at the White House and then, because they'd promised friends they'd meet them at Ford's Theatre, she said, they headed out to see "Our American Cousin."
It was a day for exhaling, for planning. It was also Good Friday.
By the next morning, Meyer said, the world had changed. And the nation went from rejoicing to grieving.
Abraham Lincoln — the man who'd seen the country through a horrific Civil War, who reinforced the notion that all men are created equal and who vowed "no malice toward anyone" as the country licked its wounds and prepared to rebuild — was dead, killed by assassin John Wilkes Booth.
And, Meyer said, thanks to the recent invention of the telegram, the news of a monumental event was sent in real time from sea to shining sea.
Though a funeral ceremony was held in Washington on the 19th, Mary had insisted that her husband be buried at Oak Ridge Cemetery near Springfield, Illinois, Meyer said.
And so a plan was hatched.
A rail car that had just been given to the president, one that would be his personal mode of transportation, his "Air Force One" — a car he was scheduled to inspect the day after he died — instead became his funeral car, Meyer said.
His final journey back to Illinois began April 21.
The body of Lincoln's son, Willie, who died a few years earlier at age 11, went with him.
"It's estimated that 6 million people came out to watch the train as it passed, night and day, day and night," Meyer said.
"That Easter, people thought they were going into church to celebrate not just Easter but the end of the war and the reunification of the country," she said. "Instead, they were taken to their knees in grief.
"So when they realized his body was going to journey past their communities, it propelled them to come to the track side and it didn't matter if it was 3 o'clock in the morning or 3 o'clock in the afternoon; they came and they stood and they watched," Meyer said.
The train stopped in numerous cities along the way, including Chicago, for funeral ceremonies. It arrived in Springfield on May 3.
This year's re-enactment, marking the 150th anniversary of the end of the war and of Lincoln's assassination, is expected to be attended by thousands, many from around the world, Meyer said.
Re-enactor Joe Ziccarelli, of LaGrange, will be there. He has been re-enacting with the 64th Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry and appearing in Civil War movies, including "Gettysburg," "Glory" and "Andersonville," for many years. He will be among the soldiers who march from downtown Springfield to the cemetery during the weekend's proceedings.
"The Civil War is fascinating," he said. "It's part of our history as Americans. It's special because it happened right here."
Jon Austin, co-chair of the 2015 Lincoln Funeral Coalition, said as of April 1, more than 1,000 Civil War re-enactors had registered to participate in the event. Another 1,000 were expected to sign up during April, he said.
He said interest in the event has been expressed by people around the world.
"People recognize that this is a unique opportunity to relive an important part of history," he said. "Even though it is 150 years later, we all believe that Lincoln had a broad impact in regard to diversity, race relations and the formal ending of slavery. Today, we're all benefiting from the work that was done back then."
Austin said the mission of the coalition is threefold: to commemorate Lincoln's life, to honor the work he did for the nation, and to recognize that his efforts still have relevance today.
Meyer said Lincoln's appeal went well beyond sympathy over the assassination.
"People admired his accessibility. He was so open and he responded to their needs. He was very true to the cause and despite all the criticisms, he stayed on task, which was to keep the country together," she said.
The Lincoln Funeral Commemoration package includes access to lectures, the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum and the flag ceremony at the funeral. On the bus journey south to Springfield, participants will stop in small towns where Lincoln worked and lived. Metamora and Mount Pulaski are among them.
In Springfield, participants will get to see the replica train funeral car and watch as a replica casket is removed from it and put into a hearse. The hearse, accompanied by a team of horses, will take the casket to the State Capitol on Saturday. A candlelight vigil will be held that night, and the casket on Sunday will be taken to Oak Ridge Cemetery, where Lincoln, Mary and three of their four sons are buried, Meyer said.
Meyer said she organized the bus trip, which can accommodate up to 56 people, to coincide with official re-enactment proceedings.
The coach bus departs Tinley Park at 8:15 a.m. May 1 and returns by 10 p.m. May 3. Breakfast, a museum visit, two nights' hotel, two banquets, admission to lectures and tours and participation in the flag ceremony at the tomb are included. The cost is $495 per person. Reservations must be made by Friday.
Comments
Loading

