FOX Sports
+
Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports
Sean Doolittle established himself as the A's closer, but he isn't concerned about that right now - he just wants to pitch. 
FOX Sports
     
As expected, the Oakland A's reinstated reliever Sean Doolittle from the disabled list on Tuesday. The lefty didn't get into Tuesday night's game with the Detroit Tigers, but he's now eligible to pitch for the first time in 2015 after undergoing shoulder surgery during spring training.
Recent word had the A's planning to use him in a more 'relaxed' role as he eases his way back into heavy use out of the bullpen, and Doolittle says he has no issues with that whatsoever. 
As he told Joe Stiglich of CSN Bay Area : “I’m not even thinking about roles or anything like that. I’ll be ready when the phone rings. Hopefully I pitch well to get back in that conversation, but the main thing is the situation of our team. I’ve gotta help any way I can.”
Making more 'low-profile' appearances out of the bullpen could encourage Doolittle to audition his non-fastball pitches more. That's not something he usually does, considering his penchant for relying on fastballs while serving as the A's closer.
As he told Stiglich to that effect: "I have a lot of confidence in my ability to locate the ball around the zone. And we’ve worked a lot on the secondary stuff,so I feel maybe a little more like a complete pitcher this time around.” 
Having Doolittle back in the bullpen has to feel good for manager Bob Melvin, who has had some difficulty finding reliability out of that part of the pitching staff so far this season.
0 Comments
You may use your Facebook account to add a comment on FoxSports.com , subject to Facebook's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Your Facebook name, photo, other personal information you make public on Facebook and comment will appear on FoxSports.com , and may be used on Fox Sports' other media platforms. Any questions?
FOXSports.com >
Other FOX Sites >
©2015 Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

