11 kinds of chameleon found masquerading as a single species
11 kinds of chameleon found masquerading as a single species
Chameleons in Madagascar previously thought to all belong to a single species have actually turned out to be 11 separate species.
A green panther chameleon. Michel Milinkovitch/UNIGE
Chameleons are famous for their ability to disguise themselves, adapting the their hue through nanocrystals in their skin , actively tuning to reflect light differently. And one of the most famous masters of this disguise is the panther chameleon, first described in 1829, and native only to Madagascar.
Related articles
According to new research published on May 24, led by Michel Milinkovitch, professor of genetics, evolution, and biophysics at the University of Geneva (UNIGE), this chameleon has been hiding another trick inside its scaly skin: It's not a single species of chameleon. It's 11.
Professor Milinkovitch's team, in collaboration with Achille Raselimanana of the University of Antananarivo, wasn't looking for new species. Instead, they were looking for genetic keys that might give some indication of how the panther chameleon achieves its unusually broad colour palette. Some panther chameleons are a vivid blue , such as those from the island of Nosy Be, while others from different can be red , orange or green . These colourations vary according to region.
The panther chameleon's eyes operate a bit like gun turrets and can move independently. Chris Parker, CC BY-ND 2.0
The team undertook two expeditions, travelling from east to west, collecting blood samples from 324 individual chameleons, which they also photographed. They then sequenced the mitochondrial and nuclear DNA of each chameleon, analysing them according to the hypothesis that colour and pattern variations are regional.
What the team found instead was that colour and patterning corresponded with the genetic lineage of each chameleon's species, with very little interbreeding, if any. Although colour and pattern also corresponded to location, this indicates that each location-specific population may need to be considered a discrete species.
This means that conservation approaches to the animals may need to be reconsidered, with each species managed separately.
The island of Madagascar is one of the most biodiverse regions on the planet, but it is also under threat from human activity. Deforestation and logging destroys the habitats of many species, driving them to extinction. The team hopes that this discovery will help raise awareness of the conservation efforts in the region, and save the lives of the animals that live there.
We have requested more information about the discovery from Professor Milinkovitch.
 
Conversation powered by Livefyre
Trending on CNET
9 vacuums you need to see
We’ve selected a variety of vacuums that offer something extraordinary – from a fantastically sturdy upright to a low-key bot with Roomba-level performance.

