4,887 +6.71 +0.14%
S&P 500
2,067 +7.27 +0.35%
9:09 A.M. ET
9:08 A.M. ET
9:01 A.M. ET
8:30 A.M. ET
Stock futures fall further; Dow e-mini futures drop 112 points
Share
Step one, enter the culture wars and, step two, roll in the dough
Shutterstock.com
By
BrettArends
Columnist
Memories Pizza of Walkerton, Ind., never made this much money when it was open.
The family-run pizzeria has been swamped with hundreds of thousands of dollars in online donations since becoming the latest poster child of Indiana’s culture wars.
As of Friday morning (Good Friday, no less), contributions rose to nearly $500,000, and the total was still rising fast. That amount may be a day’s work for a Goldman Sachs GS, -0.35%  trader, but for a pizzeria in a small town in Indiana, it’s a windfall.
Walkerton has a population of 2,200. It’s so out of the way, you have to drive 14 miles to get to the nearest Walmart WMT, +0.02%
Memories would have to sell 38,100 of its $12.99 extra-large pizzas — or 17 for every man, woman and child in the town — to bring in the same amount of money. That would be quite some night.
This week, Memories had to shut down, at least temporarily, after co-owner Crystal O’Connor said to a journalist that she wouldn’t cater a gay wedding if asked because it would go against her reading of the Bible.
Conservatives, libertarians, locals and a few people who just thought this whole thing was out of control began giving money to a GoFundMe account.
The reaction has been astonishing.
First, the restaurant was swamped with abuse and threats. Critics used the Internet cleverly in attacks, posting items on Facebook FB, -0.13%  and Twitter TWTR, -0.10% and even creating fake “one-star” restaurant reviews on Google GOOG, -1.30% and Yelp YELP, +3.60% The O’Connors shut down for their own safety after some morons on Twitter (sorry, I just repeated myself) suggested burning the place down.
Like I said earlier this week, I’m so glad we’re all taking a stand against hate speech.
But it has turned into a fascinating case of the biter bit. After conservative host Dana Loesch on TheBlaze talked about what was going on , defenders of the restaurant’s owners suddenly rallied to their support. Conservatives, libertarians, locals and maybe a few people who just thought this whole thing was out of control began giving money to a GoFundMe account set up online to raise money for the restaurant.
How we got to this place is a story of its own.
For a little more than a week, ever since Indiana passed its new “religious freedom” law, the national media has been trawling the length and breadth of the state to find businesses that had turned away gays at the door or were planning to.
And after all that, apparently the best they could find was this little pizza shop in a town that no one has ever heard of.
You can’t prove a negative, and there may be other businesses out there that would refuse to cater a gay wedding. Indeed, let’s assume there are. But, apparently, we haven’t been able to find them yet. Media Matters, a liberal media watchdog that is a champion of equality, was citing only Memories Pizza as of Thursday night.
The O’Connors haven’t turned away any gay customers, so far as anyone can tell, and insist they won’t. Nor have they turned away a gay wedding — yet.
Instead, Mrs. O’Connor had told a local news reporter that if a gay couple wanted to get married in Walkerton, Ind., and decided that they want to serve pizza at the wedding, she and her husband wouldn’t do the catering, as gay marriage is, apparently, against their faith.
In that case, I guess, the gay couple would have to get back in their car and drive, er, two blocks east on Route 6 to Club 23 — the town’s other pizzeria.
More from MarketWatch
Brett Arends is a MarketWatch columnist. Follow him on Twitter @BrettArends.
MarketWatch Partner Center
Brett Arends
Brett Arends is a MarketWatch columnist. Follow him on Twitter @BrettArends.
We Want to Hear from You
Join the conversation
Copyright ©2015 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
$80.73
$50.42
$47.14

