Online version of Merriam-Webster has added 1700 new words to database
by:
We’re still holding out for ‘totes magotes’ to be added. Source: Getty Images
THE online version of Merriam-Webster has added 1700 new words to its digital database.
“As of last week, it’s grown by more than 1,700 entries, and existing entries have expanded by more than 700 new senses,” it wrote on a blog.
“We’ve added 3,200 examples that provide contextual information, and another 200 entries for some of the words people most frequently look up have been updated and enhanced.”
The updated list seems to be the result of ever-evolving technology, but there are a couple of other funny little surprises on the list too.
Here is a selection of our favourites that are sure to cause scrabble arguments all over the globe.
click fraudnoun
Definition: fraud committed by clicking through an advertisement on a website multiple times to spuriously increase the cost to the advertiser.
colossal squidnoun
Definition: an extremely large squid occurring in deep waters of the Southern Ocean that is the largest known living invertebrate.
eggcornnoun
Definition: a word or phrase that sounds like and is mistakenly used in a seemingly logical or plausible way for another word or phrase either on its own or as part of a set expression.
emojinoun
Definition: any of various small images, symbols or icons used in text fields in electronic communication (as in text messages) to express the emotional attitude of the writer, convey information succinctly, communicate a message playfully without using words, etc.
jeggingsnoun
Definition: a legging that is designed to resemble a tight-fitting pair of denim jeans and is made of a stretchable fabric.
memenoun
Definition: an idea, behaviour, style or usage that spreads from person to person within a culture.
net neutralitynoun
Definition: the idea, principle or requirement that internet service providers should or must treat all internet data as the same regardless of its kind, source or destination.
NSFWabbreviation
photobombverb
Definition: to move into the frame of a photograph as it is being taken as a joke or prank.
twerkverb
WTFabbreviation
Definition: what the f —, used especially to express or describe outraged surprise, recklessness, confusion or bemusement.
Tech Survey 2015
Most of us would be lost without technology. How important is it to you? Tell us about the technology in your life.
TECH SURVEY 2015
News.com.au’s Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
Have your say
Comments Form
Email Address *
Location (optional)
Post Options
Email me if my comment is published
News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
Submit
Eggcorn? What ever happened to the ever useful mondegreen?
hoplomachus Posted at 12:17 PM Today
How ridiculous - hopefully the Mccquarie and Oxford have more sense.
Scoby Posted at 12:09 PM Today
How appropriate that the first ones click bait. That describes just about every article on this site
19
10
15
This is also known as Online Behavioural Advertising.

