Michele Bachmann compares President Obama to Germanwings co-pilot Andreas Lubitz
Bachman says with the Iran nuclear deal Obama is ‘a deranged pilot’
Your email address
Note: We do not store your email address(es) but your IP address will be logged to prevent abuse of this feature. Please read our Legal Terms & Policies
In a statement that at best can be described as insensitive, former US Representative Michele Bachmann has compared Barack Obama to the Germanwings co-pilot that is believed to have deliberately crashed a jet into the French Alps, killing himself and 149 others.
In a message posted to Facebook on 31 March, Ms Bachman suggested that the US president is intentionally hurting the US people in the Iranian nuclear negotiations.
“With his Iran deal, Barack Obama is for the 300 million souls of the United States what Andreas Lubitz was for the 150 souls on the German Wings flight - a deranged pilot flying his entire nation into the rocks,” Ms Bachmann wrote. “After the fact, among the smoldering remains of American cities, the shocked survivors will ask, why did he do it?”
President Obama on Thursday announced a tentative agreement with Iran over reducing economic sanctions against the country in exchange for a long-term reduction in nuclear capabilities.
 
people
News
people
News
Life and Style
science
News
Arts and Entertainment
Life and Style
News
news
News
Arts and Entertainment
News
5
SPONSORED FEATURES
 
Yemen crisis
What will Saudi Arabia do when – not if – things go wrong in their war with the Shia Houthi rebels, asks Robert Fisk
A pilot shares his passion for flying
It has been hard to feel positive about air travel in recent days. But while the horror of Germanwings Flight 9525 will stay with us, to fear flying is to miss one of the wonders of the modern age
Songs of praise: Christian Contemporary Music
Their music sells by the bucketload, their tours are huge and, in the US, they're more popular than jazz and blues put together. So why don't CCM acts ever make it into the mainstream?
Brighton newspaper inspires art exhibition
The Argus' billboards have long had a cult following. Jack Mills meets the man behind the top lines
10 best men's T-shirts
From wardrobe staples to head-turning tees, we try on this season’s tops for size
Stephen Peters: 'I just gave Trott the tools to play again'
The spine of England’s batting is back for the West Indies tour. Here, the famous sports psychiatrist reveals how he has helped to change the player's mind
Superstitious West Brom manager won't relax until safety is secured
Tony Pulis says the club will need a reboot... once they avoid the drop
Premier League dreams
Eight into three just won't go in the Championship's race for promotion to the top-flight
Frank Warren column
Kell Brook vs Amir Khan? I think we'll have to wait for this one...
War with Isis
Iraq declares victory in the battle for Tikrit - but militants make make ominous advances in neighbouring Syria
A spring in your step?
Scientists develop mechanical leg brace to help take a load off
Peter Ackroyd on Alfred Hitchcock
Ackroyd has devoted his literary career to chronicling the capital and its characters. He tells John Walsh why he chose the master of suspense as his latest subject
Ryan Reynolds branches out in Woman in Gold
For every box-office smash in Ryan Reynolds' Hollywood career, there's always been a misconceived let-down. It's time for a rethink and a reboot, the actor tells James Mottram
Stars safeguard against morbid advertising
As film-makers and advertisers make increasing posthumous use of celebrities' images, some stars are finding new ways of ensuring that they rest in peace

