 
Just five days after being named the oldest person in the world, Gertrude Weaver of Camden, Arkansas, died Monday at the age of 116 from complications of pneumonia.
BREAKING: World's oldest person, 116-year-old Gertrude Weaver of Arkansas, has died. http://t.co/XhxwAujI8P pic.twitter.com/ZxF7DXdRWp
Last Wednesday, 117-year-old Misao Okawa of Japan died, making Weaver the world's oldest person, the Los Angeles Times reports . That day, she had her nails painted pink in celebration and thanked God for the fact she was still alive. "I've been here long," she told KARK-TV. "How do I look?"
Official records have Weaver’s birthday as July 4, 1898, and she had invited President Obama to attend her birthday party this year. She married in 1915 and had four children with her husband, who died in 1969. Weaver attended church every Sunday with her last surviving son, Joe, who turns 94 on Tuesday. The title will now be passed to Jeralean Talley, 115, who lives in Michigan with her 77-year-old daughter.
 
On Monday's Tonight Show, Michael Douglas and Jon Cryer teamed up against Kat Dennings and Jimmy Fallon for a rousing game of Charades. Over the course of the segment, we learn that Douglas can do the Macarena but doesn't know his teammate starred in Pretty in Pink, and MVP Dennings can figure anything out despite terrible clues from her partner. Watch the clip below. —Catherine Garcia
Israel isn't one of the six world powers negotiating with Iran for an agreement to prevent Tehran from developing a nuclear weapon, but on Monday, Yuval Steinitz, Israel's minister of intelligence and strategic affairs, nonetheless issued a list of requirements for a final deal deemed "more reasonable" to Tel Aviv.
The specific demands , the first issued by Israel, include that Iran end all nuclear research and development, ship all its enriched uranium out of the country, lower the number of centrifuges below the 6,104 (out of 19,000 currently) agreed to in the framework deal, disclose all previous nuclear research and activities, and shutter its underground Fordo facility, which under the current deal could be used for medical isotope production.
The Israeli demands, echoed by some Republican lawmakers, "would amount to a dramatic rewrite of the proposed accord," notes The Wall Street Journal . "Last week's framework leaves almost no room for negotiators on either side to overhaul the terms in the way Mr. Steinitz called for."
As Steinitz, one of the Israeli government's most strident critics of the Iran talks, was laying out his case in Jerusalem, President Obama was waving off a demand made by Israeli President Benjamin Netanyahu last Friday, that any deal must include a "clear and unambiguous Iranian commitment of Israel's right to exist." That demand "is really akin to saying that we won't sign a deal unless the nature of the Iranian regime completely transforms," Obama told NPR's Steve Inskeep . "And that is, I think, a fundamental misjudgment."
We want Iran not to have nuclear weapons precisely because we can't bank on the nature of the regime changing. That's exactly why we don't want to have nuclear weapons. If suddenly Iran transformed itself to Germany or Sweden or France then there would be a different set of conversations about their nuclear infrastructure. [Obama, to NPR ]
Obama is also lobbying for support on the deal from Arab states with tense relationships with Iran, and he has invited the heads of several Sunni Gulf states to Camp David later this spring to discuss the issue. The ground seems more fertile than in Israel. On Monday, Saudi Arabia's U.S. ambassador, Adel al-Jubeir, said his kingdom wanted to see the details before endorsing the final agreement, but expressed "hope there will be a deal based on the principles that the U.S. government has articulated to us."
 
The University of California, Irvine has an unusual mascot that was made even more strange after a visit from Conan O’Brien. On Conan, O’Brien took a trip to UCI to help improve Peter the Anteater, and was left unimpressed by his warm-up moves and poor eyesight. Thankfully, O’Brien arrived with plenty of mismatched costume pieces, and a new mascot was created that UCI is sure to embrace. You’re next, Santa Cruz Banana Slug. —Catherine Garcia
New research has found that false-positive mammograms cost the U.S. $4 billion a year.
False-positives can occur because what looks like a tumor on an X-ray can actually be a cyst or a growth that later disappears. Mei-Sing Ong and Dr. Ken Mandl of Boston Children's Hospital studied false-positive mammograms and breast cancer overdiagnoses among more than 700,000 women between the ages of 40-59 from 2011 to 2013, NBC News reports .
They found that 77,729 women, or 11 percent of those screened, had a false-positive mammogram that caused them to have to get another mammogram, biopsy, or other test to determine if it was in fact breast cancer, at an average cost of $852 per person. "The costs associated with false-positive mammograms and breast cancer overdiagnoses appear to be much higher than previously documented," they wrote in the journal Health Affairs.
 
Conditions in a Palestinian refugee camp in Damascus, Syria, are "beyond inhumane," a United Nations spokesman said, as Islamic State militants and Palestinian fighters battle for control.
Life in Yarmouk is 'beyond inhumane.’ http://t.co/T2XE8OYEXH pic.twitter.com/fzOFsxKOYi
The fighting in Yarmouk began last week when ISIS came into the camp and clashed with Aknaf Beit al-Maqdis, a group opposed to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, The Associated Press reports . About 18,000 people live in Yarmouk, and an estimated 2,000 are thought to have fled. Activists say that in addition to the heavy fighting, the government has been shelling the camp and dropping barrel bombs since Sunday.
Pierre Krahenbuhl, head of the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, told AP the situation is "completely catastrophic." There is hardly any water, food, or medicine, and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights estimates that ISIS now controls as much as 90 percent of Yarmouk. Krahenbuhl is urging local leaders who hold some influence on fighters to ask them to observe international human rights laws and protect civilians.
For the first time, radiation from the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster has been detected on a North American shoreline, with trace amounts of Cesium-134 and Cesium-137 found in samples collected off the coast of Ucluelet on Vancouver Island.
The levels are not high enough to pose a threat to human or marine life, scientists told The Guardian , as the water samples contained 1.4 Becquerels per cubic meter of Cesium-134 and 5.8 Becquerels per cubic meter of Cesium-137. However, "radioactivity can be dangerous, and we should be carefully monitoring the oceans after what is certainly the largest accidental release of radioactive contaminants to the oceans in history," said Ken Buessler, a scientist with the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
Last November, Woods Hole detected radiation from Fukushima about 100 miles off the coast of Northern California, but since then it has not been found any closer to the shore. Buessler said he expects to see low cesium levels reaching Washington down to California, but said that "predicting the spread of radiation becomes more complex the closer it gets to the coast."

