Daily News Sarah Kemp Brady, who became an activist for gun control just after her husband was shot in the head in the assassination try on President Ronald Reagan, died Friday.Brady, 73, died in a retirement community in Alexandria, Virginia, right after battling pneumonia,...
AP News - Gun-handle activist and widow of James Brady dies at 73
Sarah Kemp Brady, who became an activist for gun control just after her husband was shot in the head in the assassination try on President Ronald Reagan, died Friday.Brady, 73, died in a retirement community in Alexandria, Virginia, right after battling pneumonia,...
Sarah Kemp Brady, who became an activist for gun control just after her husband was shot in the head in the assassination try on President Ronald Reagan, died Friday.
Brady, 73, died in a retirement community in Alexandria, Virginia, right after battling pneumonia, family members members mentioned in an e mail.
Brady's husband, former White Home Press Secretary James Brady, died Aug. 4, also at the age of 73.
The 1981 assassination try on Reagan by John Hinckley Jr. left James Brady partially paralyzed.
4 years later, Sarah Brady became involved in gun handle. She chaired Handgun Handle Inc., which was renamed the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence as a tribute to the Bradys. The Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act was signed into law in 1993 by President Bill Clinton.
"Sarah courageously stepped up following Jim was shot to prevent other people from enduring what our household has gone through, and her operate has saved countless lives," the family's statement said.  "Sarah was a voice of strength, enjoy and encouragement, and she inspired others, showing that a single person could make a distinction and adjust the globe — which she did."
Dan Gross, president of Brady Campaign, referred to as Sarah Brady "its guiding light."
"There are countless individuals walking around nowadays who would not be had been it not for Sarah Brady's exceptional resilience, compassion," Gross mentioned.
Nancy Reagan, Ronald Reagan's widow, recalled the immediate aftermath of the assassination attempt.
In a statement emailed by the Reagan Foundation, she wrote: "Just over 34 years ago, we shared an practical experience that bonded us for life, as we comforted each other in a tiny, windowless workplace at the George Washington University Hospital Emergency Room, when awaiting word about regardless of whether our husbands would survive the horrific gunshots that had brought them there."
Reagan also known as Brady "a lady of immense courage, strength and optimism."
1172 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.

