Democrat Martin O’Malley said he will consider himself as a forward looking candidate with the experience and ideas to govern and move the country forward.
The reaction came after Hillary Clinton officially entered into the Presidential race for 2016.
Martin O’Malley is the former two-term governor of Maryland.
When O’Malley was asked about how the entry of Clinton in the presidential race for 2016 will affect his plans during the television program called lowa press, he said, “I think our party and our country would be well-served by a robust debate about the questions and the answers that we have to provide in order to move our country forward and fix what’s still ailing our economy.”
O’Malley also indicated that after the spring he will make a decision about becoming a candidate.
O’Malley supported Clinton in 2008 but he declined to say that Clinton is yesterday’s candidate, but he said that there is always gravitational pull towards the future.
In 2008 O’Malley supported Clinton and believed that she is the best choice for presidency.
O’Malley said “times have changed.”
He said, “Our party is always looking for new voices and new perspectives to help us solve our problems.”
He added, “I believe that we need to have a robust issues debate in our party about the sort of leadership that is required right now for our country, I think the larger issues in this race will be which candidate has the frameworks and the ideas that will allow and make sure that wages start rising again.”
He believes that lowans will simply not back Clinton.
He said, “There’s very often, especially in our party, an inevitable frontrunner right up until that frontrunner is no longer inevitable.”
He added, “When the people in Iowa have the opportunity to see all of the candidates, usually two or three times, ask them questions, see how they engage on good days and bad days, they make up their own mind.”
Dave Smith
Dave earned a bachelor’s degree in foreign affairs from university of Virginia. Has extensive business journalism experience. He has passion for finance, health. Enjoys reading and playing with his dog.
ExRoot
Correct the spelling of the former governors name in your headline. Too much Miley Cyrus social media on your brain.

