nba May 27, 2015 12:05am EDT May 27, 2015 12:05am EDT
CLEVELAND — Of all the story lines that developed over the course of the Cavaliers' 118-88 cakewalk victory Tuesday to the NBA Finals, none was more important on so many levels than having Kyrie Irving was back on the floor for this.
Sure, the Cavs swept their way past the Hawks behind 23 points, nine rebounds and seven assists from LeBron James. There was another outstanding performance from power forward Tristan Thompson (16 points, 11 rebounds) and J.R. Smith was terrific again off the bench (18 points, 10 rebounds). And there is the coming trip to the NBA Finals, just the second in franchise history.
Kyrie Irving. (Getty Images)
But save a slice of glory for Irving, who had much more at stake in the 21:58 that he played than just a win or a loss. He had his health on the line. He also had his history.
Irving missed the last two games of this series and struggled through his two previous games, hardly the way he wanted his first entry into the postseason to go. He was not going to miss this game, not after what he has been through with the knee tendinitis that has been bothering him for weeks, and not with what he has been through in four seasons in Cleveland.
“It felt amazing just to be out there,” Irving said. “I definitely wanted to be part of the celebration, especially a closeout game like that. I just wanted to give my teammates a spark and come in there and make an impact. I tried to do that.”
He did. He shot 6-for-11 from the floor. He scored 16 points. If he was rusty, he did not show it.
“I think the biggest thing was seeing the smiles and being able to compete,” Irving said, “and go out there and sort of be myself. Obviously, it’s not 100 percent but for me it was just going out there and being with my brothers. That’s all I wanted was to win this Eastern Conference championship, win it in Cleveland more importantly for our fans.”
There is no question that Irving’s return is a big lift for the Cavs’ rotation as they settle in for the long, nine-day wait until the Finals begin. Irving will have plenty of time to rest his knee, which will be important as he is likely on his way to a head-to-head match with Stephen Curry. That returns Matt Dellavedova, who was great as a starter, to his more comfortable role off the bench.
But for Irving, this is about more than the rotation and his stat line. This is a long-awaited redemption for a guy who was developing a reputation as a player who posted nice numbers but did little in the way of winning. Until this year, Irving had three All-Star appearances to his credit, but his teams had a record of 78-152.
But Irving didn’t get much help over the years. The front office, scrambling after the loss of James to free agency in 2010, sent in a parade of misfits and stumblebums to support its new franchise player. That sapped something from the game. Irving has often talked about the importance of having fun playing basketball, and that was missing during the Cavs’ struggles the last three years.
Since he was the No. 1 pick in 2011, Irving has seen more than 60 different teammates and three coaches come through Cleveland in just five years. He has played with Baron Davis and Antawn Jamison. He has played with Luke Walton and Anthony Parker. Have we forgotten the Andrew Bynum experiment? Irving has, perhaps, tried.
Heck, the front office had such a hard time bringing in talent that Irving played not with Splash Brothers Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson, but with the Splash Brothers’ brothers — Seth Curry and Mychel Thompson.
This, though? This was different. This was fun. That was apparent when Irving came out of the training room toting a bottle filled with fast-disappearing champagne, and smiled. Repeatedly. Even as he was asked about his knee and talked about the difficulty of giving it constant ice to numb the pain. Irving just kept smiling.
“This is crazy,” he said. “This is a surreal moment. We’re definitely going to enjoy it. Get ready to play in the next two or three days. I’m going to enjoy this for the next two days, then go from there.”
Going from there means going to the NBA Finals. The health, he hopes, will get better this week. But with this Eastern Conference championship, Irving’s history now has fully recovered.
Purchase NBA Tickets

