About the Coverwall
From John and Yoko to Miley Cyrus, Annie Leibovitz to David LaChapelle, the cover of Rolling Stone has always been an art form in its own right. Now you can explore all our covers, and read full articles from classic issues dating back to our 1967 launch in our brand-new Cover Wall.
Miley Cyrus Shares Senator Tom Cotton's Phone Number on Twitter
Arkansas politician draws ire of 'Bangerz' singer after saying, "I think it's important we have a sense of perspective about our priorities. In Iran, they hang you for the crime of being gay"
Sidebar
"Senator Cotton thinks gay community needs to get 'perspective' cuz 'In Iran they hang you for the crime of being gay,'" Cyrus tweeted  ( via Mediate ). "Let's stir some shit up! Senator Cotton (202) 224-2353!!!! Happy Hippies call & express why freedom is important to us & our country!"
Cotton's remarks came after Arkansas Governor and fellow Republican Asa Hutchinson sent a bill that was similar to the RFRA back to that state's Senate so they could add anti-discriminatory language to the law.
In speaking to CNN's Wolf Blitzer, Cotton said, "I think it's important we have a sense of perspective about our priorities. In Iran, they hang you for the crime of being gay. They’re currently imprisoning an American preacher for spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ in Iran. We should focus on the most important priorities that our country faces right now."
Cotton was widely criticized for his comments, both for his naïve generalizing of Iran's LGBT stance as well as his belief that an act protecting LGBT rights in America isn't considered a priority. According to the Huffington Post , Cyrus' army accomplished their mission of "stirring shit up" as calls to Cotton's office were greeted by a message saying the voice mailbox was full.
After Indiana passed their RFRA, Cyrus explained  that she was opposed to the bill because she had "dedicated my life to being whoever it is that I want to be." "If you don’t choose to live that way, you’re not going to last in this generation because we are overtaking you," Cyrus said. "They are dinosaurs, and they are dying off. We are the new generation, and with that will come so much."
Submit
How we use your email address »
THANK YOU! You have successfully subscribed to the Rolling Stone Newsletter.
x
We may use your e-mail address to send you the newsletter and offers that may interest you, on behalf of Rolling Stone and its partners. For more information please read our Privacy Policy .
Latest Issue

