How Nebraska's LGBT protection laws stack up nationally
By Bailey Schulz | Photo by Adam Warner on April 6th, 2015 news
When it comes to discrimination protections, Nebraska’s no Indiana. But it’s no Colorado, either.
Recent controversy regarding the Indiana’s Religious Freedom Restoration Act – as well as the introduction of an anti-discrimination bill in the Nebraska Legislature – has reinvigorated statewide debate on the government’s role in shielding LGBT people from discrimination.
While Indiana is 1 of 19 states with a RFRA or something similar, Nebraska isn’t among them. However, the Cornhusker state lags behind more progressive states that are leading the charge for LGBT protections. One example is Colorado, which outlaws discrimination of services based on sexuality or gender identity.
Nebraska law bars workplace and public accommodations discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin and retaliation for protection or defense of those groups.
The Fair Employment Practice Act also protects against workplace discrimination based on disability, marital status, pregnancy and whistleblower retaliation.
But Nebraska lacks statewide legislation barring discrimination in the workplace or public accommodations based on sexuality or gender identity. This session, Lincoln Sen. Adam Morfeld introduced LB 586, which would ban workforce discrimination against the LGBT community. While the bill would apply to employers across the state of Nebraska, places of worship would be exempt.
A similar bill was proposed last year but ended with a filibuster.
Morfeld’s bill excludes from the law any “religious corporation, association, or society with respect to the employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on by such corporation, association, or society of its religious activities.”
It also would not apply to the employment of an individual by his or her parent, grandparent, spouse, child or grandchild or to those in the domestic service of any other person.
Peter Burnett, a freshman history major, said he agrees with the exemptions in LB 586.
“Religious organizations generally have exemptions from these sorts of things anyway,” he said. “It’s just a continuation of what we already have.”
The bill would be applicable to employers with at least 15 employees, businesses with state contracts regardless of the number of employees, the state of Nebraska, governmental agencies and political subdivisions.
Paige Edwards, a self-described libertarian and undeclared freshman, said while she doesn’t believe in discrimination, “I do agree with the principle that a business should be able to deny service to anybody for any reason.”
On Feb. 4, both the Lincoln and Omaha chambers of commerce voiced their support of the anti-discrimination bill. Other states with similar anti-discrimination laws include Colorado, Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota and Wisconsin.
If the bill passes, some people predict it will help business in Nebraska. Many businesses and workers tend to look at LGBT protection before moving to new states, and the bill has a chance of drawing in new employees to the state.
Grady Salzman, a junior computer science major, said while this bill is a good step, discrimination won’t cease to exist until society changes its views as a whole.
“A law isn’t going to stop people’s mindset,” he said. “It’s more of a continual, gradual thing, and people are going to have to learn to accept different values in different people’s lifestyles.”
News@
dailynebraskan.com
Breaking News
Husker Sports
News Updates
Would you like to receive our daily news update sent to your email? Sign up today!
Lincoln, NE 68588
Screen Name or Email
facebook
google
yahoo
aol

