France: Iraq, Syria risk division if anti-ISIS force not bolstered
French Foreign Affairs minister Laurent Fabius poses, on May 22, 2015 at the ministry in Paris. Despite "extremely complex" issues, the political mood for reaching a global climate deal this year is stronger than ever, said Laurent Fabius on May 26, 2015. AFP PHOTO / JOEL SAGET
PARIS: Iraq and Syria risk further division if international efforts to tackle ISIS militants there are not stepped up quickly, France’s Laurent Fabius warned Tuesday. The foreign minister, speaking ahead of a June 2 meeting in Paris of nations fighting ISIS, also said Iraq’s government had not honored commitments to its partners to represent the interests of all sectors of its society.
He further said Syrian President Bashar Assad had lost control of his country and that a political solution between elements of his government and the opposition needed to be found quickly to “save Syria.”
“In Iraq, like Syria, international mobilization must be strengthened very quickly or else we are heading toward the division of one or the other country, if not both, with new massacres and disastrous consequences,” Fabius told lawmakers without elaborating on what reinforcements he wanted.
“It confirms what we have said all along. There is no military solution without a political solution. In September, we linked the coalition’s support to political commitments by the new Iraqi government, what we call an inclusive policy.
“This contract is what justified our military engagement and I say clearly here that it must be better respected,” Fabius told lawmakers.
The meeting in Paris, where more than 20 foreign ministers, including U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, are due to attend, aims to plot strategy including how to reverse recent losses. Also Tuesday, the Turkish Foreign Minister said that Turkey and the U.S. have started training moderate Syrian rebels on Turkish territory to prepare them to fight ISIS.
The United States-led program to equip and train Syrian rebels on Turkish territory has started “with small groups” after months of delays, Mevlut Cavusoglu was quoted as saying by the official Anatolia news agency. “We can say that the train-and-equip [mission[ has started with small groups. All infrastructure has been completed and the necessary equipment has been supplied,” he said.
“Both the Turkish and the American personnel who will carry out the mission have been dispatched,” he said, adding that the rebels were being selected jointly by  Turkey and the United States.
On Monday Cavusoglu told the pro-government Daily Sabah newspaper that  Turkey and the U.S. had also agreed to provide some rebels preparing to fight  ISIS with “air protection.”
Earlier this month the U.S. started training Syrian rebels in Jordan as part of a program that would extend to sites in Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar.
Ankara and Washington inked a deal in February to train and equip up to 15,000 moderate rebels on Turkish soil. But the plan has been marked by disagreement between  Washington and its allies about the objective of the training.
 
A version of this article appeared in the print edition of The Daily Star on May 27, 2015, on page 1.
Recommended
Your feedback is important to us!
We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.
Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.
Alert: If you are facing problems with posting comments, please note that you must verify your email with Disqus prior to posting a comment. follow this link to make sure your account meets the requirements. ( http://bit.ly/vDisqus )
Iraq and Syria risk further division if international efforts to tackle ISIS militants there are not stepped up quickly, France's Laurent Fabius warned Tuesday. The foreign minister, speaking ahead of a June 2 meeting in Paris of nations fighting ISIS, also said Iraq's government had not honored commitments to its partners to represent the interests of all sectors of its society.
Tuesday, the Turkish Foreign Minister said that Turkey and the U.S. have started training moderate Syrian rebels on Turkish territory to prepare them to fight ISIS.
...

