Elisabeth Meinecke
+
 
Share This Story
     
ST. LOUIS -- Get ready for change in St. Louis.
Based on general manager Doug Armstrong and head coach Ken Hitchcock's comments Tuesday, the Blues are going to get younger, faster and more reckless.
"I really believe in the group, but I also believe that if we don't make the internal changes that are necessary, we're going to get passed," Hitchcock said.
Some of those changes may be style-related. As the Blues evaluated their game tape this past season, which ended with a first-round playoff exit to the Minnesota Wild, they realized a trend: the NHL is now a fast man's game.
"What's happened here in very quick order, this league has sped up," Hitchcock said. "This league has pace like never before, and you can't change out a bunch of players.  That's not our job as coaches. Our job is to get the most out of every player. And I think internally, without changing a bunch of players, we can really quicken our team and make our pace a lot higher."
They identified a mid-February game in Tampa this season, a 6-3 win, where the Blues flashed a level of speed that showed promise for the club's new approach.
"That's a very fast team," Armstrong pointed out of the Lightning. "Now, they might not have been at 100 percent. I don't know. All I know is, we were, and we really looked quick. So how can we use the same personnel to get quicker? What are some of the things? And that's why Ken's a great coach, is he can find and make those alterations."
Another of those alternations Hitchcock has planned is for the Blues to resurrect more reckless play next season. He noted there were too many times this past year they were caught with gaps in their game -- either the defensemen were too far behind the forwards, or the forwards ended up too far ahead of the defensemen. While Hitchcock believes his team played with skill, he thinks their conservative play cost them. He also points out that the Blues have struggled the past two years in the playoffs to create separation off the rush.
FOX SPORTS DAILY
GENERAL SPORT EDITION
CHOOSE YOUR SPORT(S)
*By clicking "SUBSCRIBE", you have read and agreed to the Fox Sports Privacy Policy and Terms of Use .
Roster changes, however, are inevitable.
It's the nature of the salary cap system, Armstrong admitted Tuesday, that teams will make changes from year to year. He estimated even the team that wins the Stanley Cup will probably have about four or five changes on their roster, which means the Blues are no exception.
"I know there's four or five changes already, just based on free agency and the age of players and what's going to happen," Armstrong said. "We are going to have a different look."
Some of that may be bringing in players from the outside -- Armstrong says he will "explore improving our team to levels that we probably haven't explored in the past, but it has to make sense" -- but there certainly will be promotions from within. Armstrong said there was no question the Blues would be adding players from their AHL affiliate in Chicago next year. He also singled out defensemen Robert Bortuzzo and Petteri Lindbohm as players with the kind of reckless energy the club is looking for, and said they'll try to incorporate such personnel into their game plan early.
Meanwhile, that doesn't necessarily sound good for Blues defenseman Barret Jackman, who turned 34 in March and is an unrestricted free agent this July.
The general manager would not commit Tuesday to saying whether any of the Blues' impending unrestricted free agents would return and says his focal point is signing the team's restricted free agents. That points to forward Vladimir Tarasenko, whose re-signing Armstrong indicated as the club's top priority as the offseason began.
Come July 1, Armstrong continued Tuesday, his focus will be on players who will be restricted or unrestricted free agents the following summer. He specifically mentioned Jaden Schwartz, who signed a two-year deal with the club in September.
Armstrong also shared that the pro scouts were in St. Louis, and would be meeting Tuesday and Wednesday.
"We're going through every team," he said. "We have our free agent list, and I'm telling them on teams I've talked to so far on what they're looking to do."
No Word Yet from Sobotka
Armstrong confirmed that there's been no update on the situation with Vladimir Sobotka since Sunday's report from the Post-Dispatch said the forward has until roughly the end of this month to decide whether he'll return to the NHL this season. Whenever he does return, he will have to come back to the Blues for at least one year, unless the club itself decides otherwise.
You can follow Elisabeth Meinecke on Twitter at  @lismeinecke  or email her at  ecmeinecke@gmail.com .
0 Comments
You may use your Facebook account to add a comment on FoxSports.com , subject to Facebook's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Your Facebook name, photo, other personal information you make public on Facebook and comment will appear on FoxSports.com , and may be used on Fox Sports' other media platforms. Any questions?
FOXSports.com >
Other FOX Sites >
©2015 Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

