Recent
Recent
Recent
Other Vehicles for Sale
Saved
2 hours ago
Organizers say the national gay-rights group PFLAG and others will gather Saturday afternoon in downtown Indianapolis before traveling to Lucas Oil stadium, where the college basketball games are being played.
The event follows widespread criticism over a new Indiana law that critics said could allow discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender residents. Supporters said the law would protect religious liberties, but the national fallout prompted lawmakers to revise the law Thursday to specify it couldn't be used to discriminate.
Protesters say more is needed because Indiana's civil-rights law doesn't include specific protections for the LGBT community.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Follow The La Crosse Tribune
Top Jobs
At RKB Accounting & Tax Service our goal is to empower our…
We've been serving the tri-state area for over 20 years includ…
For all your ammunition Needs, the professionals at Wiebke are…
 
This great assortment of milk and dark chocolate really does h…
Today's Question
Yes
No
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Email:
La Crosse Tribune Newsletter
Breaking News, News Update and Sports Update Headlines. Delivered at 11a.m. daily.
La Crosse Tribune promotions
Business Report Newsletter
La Crosse Tribune Jobs Newsletter
New employment opportunities in the region.
La Crosse Tribune Homes Newsletter
Local homes for sale.
Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUVs, Motorcycles, ATVs, Boats, RV's & more
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
SEARCH ALL ADS
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with lacrossetribune.com account:
Username & Password Required!

