Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Emotions ran high on both sides as Springfield repealed its anti-discrimination law.
Post to Facebook
City's rollback on gay rights brings cheers, dismay Emotions ran high on both sides as Springfield repealed its anti-discrimination law. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1FCtLeo
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
City's rollback on gay rights brings cheers, dismay
Stephen Herzog, Springfield (Mo.) News-Leader 2:39 p.m. EDT April 8, 2015
Supporters of Yes on Question 1 hold up signs during a watch party at the Lamplighter Inn on Tuesday night after the final votes came in to repeal the SOGI ordinance.
(Photo: Nathan Papes/News-Leader)
SPRINGFIELD, Mo. -- Cheers rang out from a small crowd as a screen showed the anti-discrimination law would be repealed.
"Momentum really turned in the last weeks," said Calvin Morrow, spokesman for the campaign to repeal gay rights in Springfield.
The expanded nondiscrimination ordinance, which had been on hold during the campaigns, is now officially removed, six months after it was put in place.
Across town, at the opposing watch party, emotions were mixed.
Krista Moncado said she knew she was going to cry, but the election ended with no tears of joy — instead, the sad kind.
Moncado, with GLO Center, a gay and transgender resource in the Springfield community, was hoping the city of Springfield would keep legal protections on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, but the protections were repealed with about 51 percent voting yes.
"Either way, it was going to be emotional," she said. "People have worked so hard on this. We'll rest tonight and we'll regroup tomorrow."
Justin Burnett, who won a council seat Tuesday, supported the repeal of the ordinance. He said it was a win for small business and the faith community.
"The problem with the ordinance is that it had so many potential legal ramifications for businesses, for public safety, for the good of the city," he said. "There was no need for the ordinance."
He said he hopes the city can move forward. He says he believes his role is to "love all and serve all."
"A lot of people of faith thought this ordinance neglected their constitutional and God-given rights," he said. "So it is a victory for the faith community."
Calvin Morrow, who often spoke for the "Yes on Question 1 campaign," could not be reached for comment after final results came in, but was hopeful early in the evening that his side would prevail.
"We've just been hoping and praying," he said. "Trusting that God would handle it."
Those at the Yes repeal campaign celebrate.
 (Photo: Nathan Papes/News-Leader)
Thousands of dollars and hundreds of hours were poured into both sides of this campaign — which was always passionate and sometimes ugly.
Mayor Bob Stephens, who was re-elected Tuesday, did not give his view of the issue during the campaign, but said he thought it should be decided on the federal level.
On Tuesday he was appreciative of how the issue brought a large turnout, but lamented that it divided residents.
"It's just a shame it took a truly controversial issue to tear the community apart to get that kind of turnout," he said.
Crystal Clinkenbeard, who ran the campaign for "No Repeal," said the group was disappointed, but that all the volunteers had been clear — "We're in this for the long haul."
The vote was close throughout the night — even tighter than the final result, which saw a 51.4 percent to 48.6 win for the "yes" votes.
The "no" vote led for a short time, and the difference was just 0.30 percent at one point.
The results came quickly. By the time the first numbers were announced at the "No Repeal" party, about half the votes were in. They were down, then briefly up. Within about 45 minutes of the first results, they had lost.
The mood was predictably much brighter at the "Yes on Question 1" watch party, where the crowd was hopeful from the start. The crowd even expected to briefly take a step back from the lead, based on demographics of which polling places report first.
It was a fast end to an issue that's been drawn out for years in Springfield.
City Council voted 6-3 in October to add sexual orientation and gender identity to the city's nondiscrimination ordinance. Opponents, who voiced concern about religious freedom and the potential impact of the ordinance on the use of bathrooms across the city, gathered enough signatures to force council to either repeal the expansion or send it to a vote.
City Council tabled the measure, which automatically sent it to a vote.
The Rev. Phil Snider, of Brentwood Christian Church, has been outspoken about gay rights since this issue first came before council. On Tuesday evening, he was clearly disappointed.
"This is heartbreaking," he said.
He said he thought a "no" vote would have shown Springfield is an accepting place for everyone. He said he's especially concerned for his gay and lesbian friends.
"I just want them to know there are places in Springfield that love them and welcome them," he said.
Even after the results were final, the crowd at the "No Repeal" party stayed around. People were sad but not depressed, Clinkenbeard said.
"It was never about one night," she said. "It was about changing hearts and minds in Springfield. The people that worked on this campaign are invested in the community and committed to making sure people know it's not OK to discriminate. That work will continue."
People at the party were crying and hugging. Clinkenbeard said she didn't think it was just because of the loss.
"Everyone has a story to tell about someone whose life changed because of this campaign," she said. "People are of course sad. They put a lot of work into telling people about their lives. But there's a lot of happy chatter here, and that's what we're going to focus on moving forward."
4 CONNECT 1 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1FCtLeo
USA NOW
Apr 08, 2015

