Lilly Pulitzer apologized on Tuesday, May 26, for an employee's fat-shaming illustrations that decorated a refrigerator at the company's headquarters. In this photo, Camila Alves, Kate Bosworth, Bella Thorne, and Ellie Kemper attended the wildly popular Lilly Pulitzer For Target Collaboration at Bryant Park Grill on April 15 in NYC. Credit: Monica Schipper/FilmMagic
Pink and green and pretty mean. Preppy fashion label Lilly Pulitzer apologized on Tuesday, May 26, for an employee's fat-shaming illustrations that decorated an employee's workspace at the company's headquarters in King of Prussia, Pa.
The offending drawings were snapped at the Lilly offices near Philadelphia, and published in a slideshow for New York Magazine's The Cut , and were intended to accompany an article, "Inside Lilly Pulitzer’s Pink-and-Green Headquarters," which shows life inside the brand's offices.
Instead, one particular shot drew the ire of the Internet after several eagle-eyed employees at Business Insider noticed a glaring and awful issue.
pics of Lilly Pulitzer offices but LP staff forgot to take down fat-shaming cartoons on fridge http://t.co/FnV9ldp4aY pic.twitter.com/o4FcSSrhsa
The offending shots -- though originally believed to be on a fridge -- were located at an employee's private workspace and easy to overlook as they're surrounded by more uplifting mood-setting illustrations.
"Just another day of fat, white, and hideous," one drawing reads. "You should probably just kill yourself." The accompanying image features an overweight blonde woman wearing jeans and an unflattering top.
The second drawing depicts another overweight woman with a saggy stomach and sad expression wearing a bikini. "Put it down carb face," the caption reads.
"Fat, white and hideous" and this is why @LillyPulitzer is so classy, great job. pic.twitter.com/cvCissfUXp
I won't stop talking about how horrific this is, @LillyPulitzer . Explain why you cultivate a culture of hate. https://t.co/XkzQYJ1A5s
A spokesperson for Lilly Pulitzer, issued a statement to Us Weekly on Tuesday, May 26. "These illustrations were the work of one individual and were posted in her personal work area," the rep told the news outlet. "While we are an employer that does encourage people to decorate their own space, we are a female-dominated company and these images do not reflect our values. We apologize for any harm this may have caused."

