Albany to mark 150th anniversary of Lincoln assassination - New Jersey Herald
Posted:
Updated:
ALBANY, N.Y. (AP) - New York state and its capital city are observing the 150th anniversary of President Abraham Lincoln's assassination with a series of events and exhibits.
On Saturday, April 25 Civil War re-enactors will hold a memorial service for Lincoln and hold drills and demonstrations. Free tours of the Capitol will be offered. Other events will include musicians in period costume and a Lincoln impersonator.
In addition, a special exhibit on Lincoln and the state's role in the Civil War will be displayed in the Capitol's east gallery.
Lincoln's funeral train arrived in Albany on April 25, 1865, and the president's body laid in state at the old state Capitol the next day.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
What will drive Hillary Rodham Clinton's second bid for the presidency? Boosting economic security for the middle class and expanding opportunities for working families, key issues that her campaign says will...
Hillary Rodham Clinton jumped back into presidential politics on Sunday, as a top adviser announced her much-awaited second campaign for the White House.
Zoo officials in Cleveland say a woman was dangling her 2-year-old son over a railing when he fell about 10 feet into a cheetah exhibit.
A woman was dangling her 2-year-old son over a railing at the Cleveland zoo when he fell about 10 feet into a cheetah exhibit, zoo officials said.
A woman whose son was supposed to be honored by a memorial march in Pittsburgh says the masked group who rampaged through an upscale neighborhood breaking windows didn't honor her son.
The mother of a man whose passing was supposed to be marked by a memorial march in Pittsburgh said her son was done no honor by the masked group who rampaged through an upscale neighborhood breaking windows.
   
All content © Copyright 2000 - 2015 WorldNow and New Jersey Herald. All Rights Reserved.

