Some say 'Hunt Pink' idea insulting
Published On: May 26 2015 01:58:31 PM CDT   Updated On: May 26 2015 09:32:52 PM CDT
MADISON, Wis. -
Wisconsin’s woods might soon go pink for hunting season under a new proposed bill--and not everyone is happy with it.
State lawmakers introduced a bill Tuesday to allow blaze pink camo alongside the trademark orange during hunting season, with the goal of getting more women into the field.
Democratic state Rep. Nick Milroy and Republican Reps. Joel Kleefisch and David Steffen unveiled the bill during a news conference while wearing fluorescent pink T-shirts emblazoned with the message "Hunt Pink."
They also said the new color could encourage apparel manufacturers to partner with nonprofit groups working to get more people, men and women, interested in hunting.
University of Wisconsin-Madison textiles expert Majid Sarmadi told reporters that blaze pink is just as visible in the woods as traditional blaze orange.
Some hunters in the area are excited for the option, while others said it’s sexist.
"I think it will help girls not say, 'That’s a boys sport,'" hunter Monica Kamal said. "And they might want to do it more with their father, or their mother or their grandmother."
Valerie Hein Hamstra disagreed.
"It was just definitely insulting," she said. "I don’t think [women] need to wear pink to be a great hunter or an outdoor individual."
Sporting stores said they’ve already amped up their marketing toward women, adding it’s just where the industry is growing.
"You go back a few years, and we didn’t really stock a lot of clothing for women," said Tom Lochner, owner of Wilderness Fish and Game Store in Sauk City. "Now there’s a lot more manufactured, cut and produced for women."
Whether they agree with the bill or not, everyone agreed the color pink isn’t likely to inspire more women to pick up a gun.
The bill is currently being circulated for co-sponsors in the Legislature. Milroy, Kleefisch and Steffan said they plan to spend the next two weeks soliciting co-sponsors for the measure. It would still need to be taken up by a committee before being voted on.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Comments
The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to our Terms of Use.
Close
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

