Video Transcript
Tonight Hawaii's Governor says "build that telescope" on top of Mauna Kea... And opponents are FURIOUS. Good evening, I'm Paula Akana. And I'm Kenny Choi, in for Yunji De Nies. The governor DID order some changes, but it looks like it won't quiet this controversy. KITV-4's Catherine Cruz joins us now with the LATEST developments. Catherine? The governor essentially said we failed Mauna Kea. But the state has a contractual agreement with TMT to allow it to go ahead with construction and so it will honor that right. He is taking some of that control from the University of Hawaii and wants UH to take down a quarter of the telescopes BEFORE-- TMT is operational. The governor said it took a trip up the mountain for him to see how Mauankea was out of balance. Dramatically different from his first visit up there some two decades ago. - GOV 37:08-37:15 - "It felt and it feels entirely wrong , Maunakea is a special place and we need to treat it like a special place Native Hawaiians were willing to being arrested to drive that message home and the governor responded with a plan to correct that wrong. - 34:40- 35:58 GOVERNOR DAVID IGE,"We have in many ways failed the mountain. whether you see it from a cultural perspective a natural resource perspective, we have not done right by a very special place and we must act immediately to change that," He wants to take control of more than ten thousand acres from the University of Hawaii and has set out a ten point plan to better manage access and restore cultural sensitivity to the mountain top. UH's president says he will come up with an action plan this week. President Lassner 59:15 - 59:26 -"We share that commitment we believe the UH can and must do better and we apologize our actions have fallen short to date" action plan A big island legislator and former Mayor applauded Ige for taking action bringing the mountain back under more direct state control. She supports limiting access and creating a cultural council. - Sen Loraine Inouye 51: 41 -51:44 - "Let me say, I believe the governor has done the right thing. That includes standing by TMT's right to resume construction on the massive telescope. - GOV 35:42 "We will support their right to do so," Even if it means butting heads once again with protestors. - PHONER 26;24 - 26:27 - "Our position is you are not gong to build that monster on the mountain" - PHONER 26: 57 - 26:o3 - " I think what this going to do this is going to rally the troops and heighten the alert again" Ritte likened the governor's message today as "shaking the beehive." The governor has also asked UH and TMT for more astronomy scholarships for Native Hawaiians. TMT issued a statement today saying it appreciates the governor's support for its right to proceed. It also realizes there are those who oppose the project. It hopes to keep working with them. It did not give a timetable to resume construction. Back to you Paula Kenny?
RELATED
Comments
The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.
4min
Police are warning the public to be aware of an inmate who escaped from Maui Community Correctional Center on Tuesday.
4min
Police are warning the public to be aware of an inmate who escaped from Maui Community Correctional Center on Tuesday.
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

