Bills enacting Indiana-style religious freedom law dropped
By Riley Snyder, Linked PressPublished Friday, April three, 2015 | 1:07 p.m.Updated four hours, 9 minutes agoCARSON CITY — Nevada Republicans are dropping two proposed bills that would have added religious freedom protections to state law that critics have...
Published Friday, April three, 2015 | 1:07 p.m.
Updated four hours, 9 minutes ago
CARSON CITY — Nevada Republicans are dropping two proposed bills that would have added religious freedom protections to state law that critics have hounded as legalizing discrimination against LGBT persons.
Assemblyman Erv Nelson and Sen. Joe Hardy mentioned they would no longer pursue passage of AB 277 or SB 272 on Friday. The two lawmakers had been sponsoring the bills which contained equivalent language enacting a version of the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act into Nevada state law.
Equivalent proposals in Indiana and Arkansas drew substantial criticism more than the final two weeks due to issues that the bill would make exemptions for businesses to legally discriminate against gay and lesbian individuals.
The act was passed by Congress in 1993 and initially applied to state and local governments until it was overturned by the Supreme Court. Around 20 states have passed similar legislation more than the final two dozen years.
Nelson mentioned the recent outcry more than a similar law in Indiana and existing religious protective provisions in the Nevada constitution helped solidify his selection to not pursue the bill.
"This bill was not meant to do something about exact same sex marriage or sexual preference," he said.
In a statement, Gov. Brian Sandoval spokeswoman Mari St. Martin said the governor believed Nevada's current laws protected all men and women in the state.
"The governor believes that this bill is not needed because the interests of all Nevadans are protected below present law," she stated in a statement.
Though supporters claim the bill echoes the federal law passed in 1993 and comparable legislation in almost two dozen states, the bill includes a number of crucial differences like defining a for-profit business enterprise as an individual with religious rights and allowing suits to come forward amongst private parties.
American Civil Liberties Union lobbyist Vanessa Spinazola stated she was concerned that the bills included distinctive language that other states with religious freedom acts. She stated the bill would basically generate a wide exemption for companies to keep away from following Nevada's difficult discriminatory protection laws.
"People today who are in a protected class will walk into corporations and they will under no circumstances know if they are going to get served there or not," she mentioned. "It essentially brings us back to segregated lunch counters in the Civil Rights era."
Boyd Law College professor Leslie Griffin mentioned the current fights over the religious laws are primarily based less on protecting minority religions and additional about the fight more than extending gay and lesbian rights.
"The battle against marriage equality is practically lost, this is the next round," she stated.
Republicans in recent days have hinted that they did not want to pass such a law. Assembly Majority Leader Paul Anderson mentioned the Legislature didn't want to harm Nevada's important tourism business, and Sen. Greg Brower said at a Thursday hearing on an anti-discrimination bill that Nevada is open to business to everybody.
Hardy stated he didn't intend the bill to legalize discrimination and that furor over the Indiana law meant the state should not take up the bill this session.
"I never want to give a message that we're trying to discriminate," Hardy stated. "That's not us, that's not who we are."
Related Press writer Michelle Rindels contributed to this&nbspreport.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
03 April 2015 Friday 23:09
14 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.
Breaking News in this Category

