Connect With Us: 
Why the Trans-Pacific Partnership Matters
April 3, 2015
New York Times
--
--
AFTER five years, American-led negotiations over the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade liberalization agreement with 11 other countries that collectively account for 40 percent of the world’s economy, are nearly complete. The next step is for Congress to allow for the same legislative process — an up-or-down vote on the deal — that it applied to recent trade pacts, including the  North American Free Trade Agreement  of 1993 and the  United States-South Korea free trade agreement  of 2011.
But the congressional outlook for this approach — called Trade Promotion Authority, or fast-track negotiating authority, because it does not allow amendments or filibustering — has dimmed. Without it, the agreement would collapse, the victim of endless amendments. The coming vote, therefore, is the equivalent to a vote on the TPP itself. Should it die, the adverse impact on American national security would be great.
The trade debate coincides with growing challenges to America’s allies. In the Western Hemisphere, the governments of Canada and Chile, which are parties to the trade negotiations, believe the accord (despite domestic critics) will stimulate growth. In Asia and the Pacific, parties to the deal — not only our allies Japan and Australia, but also Vietnam, Singapore and Malaysia — see the trade accord as a way of counterbalancing China’s economic might. This is why trade is central to our foreign policy; without this deal, the so-called pivot to Asia will be hollow.
Three myths are undermining support for the TPP in the United States.
Receive your morning roundup of international news and analysis from sources around the globe.
Submit
Smith's insightful book explores the policy issues testing the Japanese government as it tries to navigate its relationship with an advancing China. More
This revolutionary new look at volatility and crisis in oil markets explores the conditions in which oil supply fears arise, gain popularity, and eventually wane. More
Maximalist by Stephen Sestanovich
Maximalist finds lessons in the past that anticipate and clarify our chaotic present, revealing the history of U.S. foreign policy in an unexpected new light. More
On November 10, 2014, trade ministers updated the leaders of countries participating in Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations. Major...
September 18, 2014
U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Michael Froman spoke on September 18, 2014, at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Center for Strategic and...
Bloomberg.com
Joshua Kurlantzick argues why President Obama shouldn't cut short his trip to Asia and outlines the issues he should focus on.

