Flanked by Rep. Travis Couture-Lovelady, R-Palco., at left, Gov. Sam Brownback signed legislation Thursday legalizing concealed carry without a permit.
top story
2 hrs ago
Flanked by Rep. Travis Couture-Lovelady, R-Palco., at left, Gov. Sam Brownback signed legislation Thursday legalizing concealed carry without a permit.
TOPEKA — Gov. Sam Brownback signed bipartisan legislation Thursday adding Kansas to the short list of states allowing unlicensed possession of concealed firearms and eliminating a weapons training mandate for people carrying hidden guns in public places.
Login Here to Read More...
Did you know? For just $1.00 you can get full site access today. Click Here
TOPEKA — Gov. Sam Brownback signed bipartisan legislation Thursday adding Kansas to the short list of states allowing unlicensed possession of concealed firearms and eliminating a weapons training mandate for people carrying hidden guns in public places.
“Responsible gun ownership, for protection and sport, is a right inherent in our Constitution,” the Republican said. “It is a right that Kansans hold dear and have repeatedly and overwhelmingly reaffirmed a commitment to protecting.”
After three years of behind-the-scenes campaigning by legislators and lobbyists, the Senate voted 31-8 and the House 85-39 to approve “constitutional carry” language in Senate Bill 45.
Under the bill, Kansas’ concealed handgun permit system would remain in place to serve individuals who sought authority to carry a hidden weapon in other states.
On July 1, Kansans at least 21 years of age who can legally possess a firearm will now be able to carry concealed within the state’s borders without completing an eight-hour training class, passing a background check or paying the require licensing fee.
“I strongly encourage anyone who has a gun — for protection or sport — to take advantage of existing safety training courses,” Brownback said.
The new Kansas law won’t change the right of businesses to post “no concealed carry” signs in accordance with rules established by the attorney general.
The states of Wyoming, Arkansas, Vermont, Arizona and Alaska had similar conceal-carry laws on the books. Nine state legislatures are considering similar bills.
“It’s time to remove the government permission slip,” said Rep. Travis Couture-Lovelady, R-Palco. “It’s time for the government to trust Kansans. We haven’t had any of the Wild West shootouts. We haven’t had any of the blood running in the streets.”
Couture-Lovelady and Senate Majority Leader Terry Bruce, R-Nickerson, helped push the bill through the Legislature. Brownback also praised work on the bill by the Kansas State Rifle Association and the National Rifle Association.
“The governor has always very strongly supported all Second Amendment issues,” said Patricia Stoneking, president of the KSRA. “This is the culmination of a 10-year plan that the KSRA set forth. That day is here.”
The Kansas chapter of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, part of Everytown for Gun Safety, had lobbied against the bill by pointing to a survey indicating 78 percent of Kansans opposed reform allowing people who hadn’t demonstrated proficiency with a firearm to carry loaded, concealed weapons.
“Moms, gun violence survivors, gun shop owners and plenty of other Kansans spoke out against this dangerous setback for public safety,” said TerriLynn Barnett Miller, of the Kansas chapter of Moms Demand Action. “Governor Brownback ignored us, looked the other way and our state will be less safe as a result.”
Chris Cox, executive director of the NRA’s Institute for Legislative Action, said Kansas’ new permitless conceal-carry law was an appropriate extension of the state’s permitless open carry statute. Both allow law-abiding people to exercise a fundamental right to self-protection, Cox said.
He said the legislation was approved in Kansas despite efforts by businessman Michael Bloomberg’s out-of-state gun control lobbying to defeat the bill “through a misinformation campaign.’
“Kansas’ permitting system remains the same under the new law,” Cox said. “People who obtain permits still enjoy the reciprocity agreements that Kansas has with other states.”
Most Popular
Apr 4
Phone: 785-628-1081
Email: webmaster@dailynews.net
Follow Us

