By Mitchell Byars
Posted:   04/07/2015 12:01:00 AM MDT
A hazardous-materials situation unfolds at the Boulder Jewish Community Center on Monday after an envelope containing white powder arrived at the center. (Mark Leffingwell, Daily Camera)
BOULDER — Two Boulder Jewish organizations — the Boulder Jewish Community Center and Congregation Har HaShem — received envelopes containing a white powder Monday, but officials determined the substances were not toxic.
It is not known yet whether the two letters are related or if they were sent specifically because it is currently Passover.
The first call came from the Boulder Jewish Community Center, 3800 Kalmia Ave., at 8:10 a.m.  when an employee opened a letter that contained white powder and a message that said "your (sic) have enemies," according to a sheriff's news release.
The Boulder County hazmat team responded to the scene and evacuated the building. Sheriff's Cmdr. Jeff Hendry said 10 to 12 children were at the center and were reunited with their parents and sent home.
Deputies quarantined the office, the two staffers who were in contact with the envelope containing the letter and the envelope itself.
Just after 11 a.m., the sheriff's office confirmed it had tested the  powder and determined  it was "benign" and not hazardous to humans.
Hazmat crews also  responded to Congregation Har HaShem, 3950 W. Baseline Road, on a similar report of a suspicious envelope.
The employees at Har HaShem had been notified about the incident at JCC, and so were opening up mail outside as a precaution.
"Jewish organizations get these things from time to time," said Har HaShem Rabbi Mark Glickman.
"We feel very fortunate it was not toxic."
Article Comments
We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.
We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.
Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.

