Secret Service supervisor put on leave after assault allegation - FOX 32 News Chicago
Posted:
Updated:
WASHINGTON (Associated Press) -
The Secret Service has placed a high-ranking supervisor on administrative leave and suspended the supervisor's security clearance after what it called "allegations of misconduct and potential criminal activity."
Spokesman Brian Leary said Wednesday that the incident was first reported to the agency's Office of Professional Responsibility on April 2, after which inspectors conducted corroborative interviews. Director Joseph Clancy was informed the same day, and the employee was placed on leave.
Leary said the Department of Homeland Security's inspector general is now investigating the incident.
The spokesman would not provide details of the allegations, but said the Secret Service takes them "extremely seriously."
It's the latest black eye for the agency assigned to protect the nation's president and his family. The inspector general is already investigating a March 4 episode in which two high-ranking agency officials are accused of driving into a secure area at the White House without authorization.
The House Oversight Committee is also trying to get to the bottom of allegations that those agents had been drinking when they drove into the area. The agents were accused of nudging a construction barrier with their vehicle as they intruded during an investigation of a suspicious item.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Don't Miss Headlines More>>
Wednesday, April 8 2015 10:56 AM EDT2015-04-08 14:56:03 GMT
A Christmas Tree Shops employee took action when a shoplifter swiped some merchandise at her story. However, she was not praised for her actions, but instead let go for what many say was the right thing to do.
A Christmas Tree Shops employee took action when a shoplifter swiped some merchandise at her story. However, she was not praised for her actions, but instead let go for what many say was the right thing to do.
Thursday, April 9 2015 5:43 PM EDT2015-04-09 21:43:56 GMT
The Secret Service has placed a high-ranking supervisor on administrative leave and suspended the supervisor's security clearance after what it called "allegations of misconduct and potential criminal activity."
The Secret Service has placed a high-ranking supervisor on administrative leave and suspended the supervisor's security clearance after what it called "allegations of misconduct and potential criminal activity."
Thursday, April 9 2015 5:12 PM EDT2015-04-09 21:12:38 GMT
A Rome Middle School teacher is facing numerous charges after she was caught on cellphone video putting a student in a headlock.
A Rome Middle School teacher is facing numerous charges after she was caught on cellphone video putting a student in a headlock.
Thursday, April 9 2015 2:04 PM EDT2015-04-09 18:04:16 GMT
Buying an Apple Watch won't be as simple as walking into an Apple store and handing over your credit card.
Buying an Apple Watch won't be as simple as walking into an Apple store and handing over your credit card.
A Wisconsin man traveled to the Middle East in a failed attempt to join the Islamic State group, federal authorities said Thursday.
   
Didn't find what you were looking for?
All content © Copyright 2000 - 2015 Fox Television Stations, Inc. and Worldnow. All Rights Reserved.

