Indiana's Religious Freedom Restoration Act was signed on March 26, but after being under fire from organizations across America the state “fixed” the law on April 2 by adding language to give some protection based on sexual orientation. (Creative Commons Archive)
When a new bill was signed by Indiana Governor Mike Pence to protect religious freedoms, the state immediately received backlash from people all around the country.
Indiana’s Religious Freedom Restoration Act was created to protect those who feel as though the state may be able to interfere with their right to exercise their freedom of religion. While this law hides under the name of religious freedom, it leaves room open for religious discrimination. Many activists have argued that it would give businesses the right to refuse service to LGBT individuals.
The way the bill is set up gives the state government two circumstances where it can limit a person’s right to practice their religion freely: (1) essential to further a compelling governmental interest; and (2) the least restrictive means of furthering the compelling governmental interest.
The bill was signed on March 26, but after being under fire from organizations across America the state “fixed” the law on April 2 by adding language to give some protection based on sexual orientation. This amendment marks the first use of the terms “sexual orientation” and “gender identity” in an Indiana law.
Companies, athletes, organizations, celebrities, politicians, etc. have come out against the new legislation. Comedian Nick Offerman cancelled his Indiana tour dates, 40 tech industry leaders have signed a joint statement supporting the addition of protections and Connecticut governor Dan Malloy even signed an executive order that prohibits state-funded travel to Indiana.
Chicago band Wilco had cancelled their May 7 show in Indiana upon hearing about the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, but has since rescheduled after the law was amended. While many have embraced the amendment, some believe it is insufficient and are still asking for the repeal of the original bill.
Two days after the law was amended, hundreds of people marched through downtown Indianapolis on Saturday asking the local government to add protection for LGBT people. The rainbow flags, big signs and chants asking for acceptance attracted the attention of many college basketball fans who were there to attend the NCAA Final Four, giving the issue a voice in the world of sports.
These types of laws are not new for America, 19 other states and the federal government also have Religious Freedom Restoration Acts. The original federal law came to be in 1993 after an Oregon Native American man lost his job due to him testing positive for the drug peyote, which he had used for religious practices.
While the federal law and state laws are relatively similar, one major disparity between the Indiana law and the federal law is that Indiana’s clearly protects the exercise of religion of organizations that operate for profit or nonprofit purposes. Many opponents of this bill believe that this would grant religious rights to any corporation or business no matter if members actually share a religious belief or not.
Although many have denounced the new law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act has opened a door for marijuana lovers. Just a week after the bill was signed Indiana’s secretary of state has approved The First Church of Cannabis Inc. Marijuana is currently illegal in the state of Indiana, but the church will plan to grow hemp. The Church’s Facebook page has racked up almost 27,000 likes and has raised over $7,000.
The situation that formed around the new law has left Indiana tourism agencies in a real life nightmare. The uproar has caused them to quickly establish campaigns highlighting that everyone is welcome, but the scramble might not have been quick enough. After all the negative light that was shown on Indiana in the new media, people started cancelling vacations and organizations started cancelling conventions.
These next few weeks are critical for Indiana. After causing the problem, members of the local government gave their shot at “fixing” it and now it is time for everyone else in the state to give it their best shot at restoring Indiana’s image.
Follow Tanner Owens on Twitter  @T_Owens21
Comments
Related posts:
Outside the Lines
Eye Health Northwest has been servicing the Oregon eye community since 1954 and has a become a top choice for Oregonians searching for eye doctors Portland OR and lasik eye doctors near Eugene, OR.
Who we are
The Emerald is the University of Oregon's independent student media organization.
In addition to its editorial department, The Emerald houses a host of creative services, from a student-run ad agency to a marketing department and photo booth operations.
The Emerald's 2014-2015 editor-in-chief is Sami Edge.
Charlie Weaver is the president and publisher of Emerald Media Group.
Categories

