Haberkip Chief monetary officer Jeff Atwater has been operating the phones in current days, telling Republican activists and donors that he intends to run for the 2016 Republican U.S. Senate nomination and desires their assistance.five Months Agothree Weeks Agothree...
Buzz: Florida chief monetary officer may perhaps join list of open offices
Chief monetary officer Jeff Atwater has been operating the phones in current days, telling Republican activists and donors that he intends to run for the 2016 Republican U.S. Senate nomination and desires their assistance.five Months Agothree Weeks Agothree...
Chief monetary officer Jeff Atwater has been operating the phones in current days, telling Republican activists and donors that he intends to run for the 2016 Republican U.S. Senate nomination and desires their assistance.
five Months Ago
three Weeks Ago
three Months Ago
With incumbent Sen. Marco Rubio anticipated to announce his candidacy for president April 13, Atwater is gearing up for what could be a challenging major for a rare open Senate seat.
Other Republican prospects involve Lt. Gov. Carlos Lopez-Cantera and U.S. Rep. Ron DeSantis, R-Ponte Vedra Beach. Do not underestimate Atwater, an amiable former banker from Palm Beach County, who we suspect has attended much more rubber chicken dinners with civic groups and GOP clubs across the state than any other elected official in Florida.
We hear Atwater's announcement will come about a week after Rubio's. Democratic U.S. Rep. Patrick Murphy of Jupiter has currently launched his bid.
Atwater won't have to resign as CFO to run for U.S. Senate simply because his term does not expire till 2018.
If Atwater wins a U.S. Senate seat, Gov. Rick Scott would appoint his interim successor. And you can bet Scott's political team currently is fielding a lot of calls from ambitious Republicans interested not only in the CFO post but also eventually becoming governor.
Mainly because unless your final name is Bush or you have a hundred million dollars to commit, the most logical path to the Governor's Mansion is via the Florida Cabinet. You have to be a lawyer to be lawyer common and it really is normally accepted that the agriculture commissioner ought to have some notion of the difference amongst a Guernsey and a Hereford. That makes CFO the perfect jumping spot for nonlawyers lacking farming encounter, even though Florida history is loaded with unsuccessful gubernatorial candidates from the Cabinet.
Back in 2014, when Atwater unsuccessfully sought the job of president of Florida Atlantic University, a bunch of names surfaced as his possible successor: former state Rep. Seth McKeel, R-Lakeland state Sen. Tom Lee, R-Brandon former House Speaker Will Weatherford, R-Wesley Chapel Sen. Don Gaetz, R-Niceville and Lakewood Ranch developer Pat Neal of Sarasota.
Most of the Buzz we heard then and now centers on Neal, a well-respected businessman, legislator (1974-86) and former chairman of Florida's Christian Coalition, who served on Scott's transition group and raised dollars for him.
&quotI'd be interested in doing something as CFO, not necessarily making use of it as a stepping stone for a thing," Neal, a graduate of the Wharton College at the University of Pennsylvania, told the Buzz.
Speak of the Tower
Rubio will announce his candidacy for president at Miami's Freedom Tower, which for years served as a processing center for Cuban refugees. The 1925 landmark can serve to symbolize the promise and greatness of America — but also Rubio's history of inconsistency when it comes to fiscal conservatism.
Rewind the clock to 2003.
The tea party was nonetheless a Revolutionary War phenomenon, Jeb Bush had just won a second term as governor, and Rubio was a talented, young legislative leader, rather than a U.S. senator and credible contender for leader of the absolutely free planet, He was the 31-year-old Florida House majority leader in a year when legislators faced particularly challenging budget choices. The Republican-controlled Legislature ultimately had to hold a specific session to hammer out a spending budget that raised college tuition eight.five percent, led to teacher layoffs, and left developmentally disabled Floridians on waiting lists for solutions.
But even as lawmakers had been debating how a great deal to fund Florida's &quotmedically needy" system, Rubio pushed for taxpayers to invest $7 million so Miami Dade Neighborhood College could get Freedom Tower. He known as it the &quotCuban Ellis Island" and stated it has &quottremendous meaning in our neighborhood."
Then-Gov. Bush, a fellow Miami-Dade resident, threatened to veto the Freedom Tower earmark, calling it &quota turkey," Tallahassee-speak for a pork-barrel project.
&quotIt is undoubtedly not a turkey," Rubio told the Orlando Sentinel at the time. &quotJust mainly because a project possibly didn't go by means of the correct channels does not imply that it is unworthy of state funding."
The public funding in no way did go via, but in 2005 a developer, the Terra Group, donated it to what is now referred to as Miami Dade College.
Contact Adam C. Smith at  asmith@tampabay.com. Stick to  @adamsmithtimes.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

