Obama touts solar initiative, thanks Mormon leaders for LGBT law
Hill Air Force Base • Standing in front of an array of about two dozen solar panels, President Barack Obama announced programs Friday to train military veterans for careers in the solar-energy sector, aimed at creating a lot more energy from the sun, reducing...
Hill Air Force Base • Standing in front of an array of about two dozen solar panels, President Barack Obama announced programs Friday to train military veterans for careers in the solar-energy sector, aimed at creating a lot more energy from the sun, reducing pollution and battling climate transform.
He stated the steps will also develop tens of thousands of new jobs, in particular for veterans.
"We've got to lead by instance, invest in the future, train our workers for excellent new jobs in the clean-energy economy," Obama stated. "That is how we're going to maintain our economy going, and that is how we're going to produce new jobs and create far more opportunity for the American men and women."
The seven-minute speech marked the only public remarks of his 15-hour take a look at to Utah ­— the 1st of his presidency ­— despite the fact that it was presented to roughly 80 select guests and military personnel and closed to the general public. A brief time later, he bounded up the methods to Air Force A single and, at 11:27 a.m., departed for the return flight to Washington, D.C.
The president arrived in Utah on Thursday at eight:10 p.m., almost three hours behind schedule simply because of his D.C. announcement of a framework deal aimed at blocking Iran's development of a nuclear bomb. He then engaged in a whirlwind round of private meetings with state and locally elected officials and LDS leaders. In addition to discussing the faith's international humanitarian efforts, he spoke with Henry B. Eyring and Dieter F. Uchtdorf of the governing Initial Presidency and apostles L. Tom Perry and D. Todd Christofferson about what a White Residence spokesman named the "broken immigration system."
In its personal news release, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stated the president also "expressed his appreciation for the church's leadership function in seeking a balance involving religious freedom and nondiscrimination," referring to the not too long ago passed law that bans housing and job discrimination against gays and lesbians.
For their component, Mormon leaders lauded Obama for "the instance he and his wife present by way of their wholesome marriage and household life."
LDS Church spokesman Eric Hawkins said LDS Church President Thomas S. Monson, age 87, skipped the meeting to preserve his strength for the church's Basic Conference this weekend.
­—
Solar jobs • In his Friday morning speech at Hill, the president set a aim for the Energy Division to train 75,000 workers in the solar energy field by 2020 — an boost from the aim of 50,000 announced final May.
Those efforts will be focused on teaching veterans returning to the private sector capabilities they would require for careers as solar-panel installers, sales representatives, program inspectors and for other jobs in the field.
The "Solar Ready Vets" program will train transitioning veterans at ten bases across the nation, like Hill, and also will perform with states to use GI Bill advantages for solar-job coaching at neighborhood colleges.
"We're also, as a byproduct of that, going to make this country safer and we're going to make the planet more secure," Obama said. "We're going to make confident that the atmosphere that we're passing on, and the remarkable beauty of this exceptional state is passed on to future generations, as properly."
Dan Utech, deputy particular assistant to the president for energy and climate modify, mentioned Obama announced the methods mainly because "as the president has stated, no challenge poses a greater threat to our future generations than climate alter," and his proposals will support "decrease carbon pollution."
Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, deputy secretary of the Department of Power, stated solar-job coaching courses at Hill Air Force Base would commence in the fall.
Just before the speech, the president led a roundtable discussion that integrated Bishop, Salt Lake City Mayor Ralph Becker and Sen. Orrin Hatch, along with Judy Fisher and Thaniel Bishop with the solar program at Salt Lake Community College.
Becker mentioned the president was "quite complimentary" of the perform Utah's capital has completed.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
04 April 2015 Saturday 00:27
36 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.
Breaking News in this Category

