Recent
Recent
Recent
Other Vehicles for Sale
0% precincts reporting
0% precincts reporting
0% precincts reporting
0% precincts reporting
0% precincts reporting
Saved
3 hours ago  •  By BRIAN WITTE
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) — Gov. Larry Hogan and Maryland House Speaker Michael Busch have met to talk about the governor's legislative agenda.
David Brinkley, the Republican governor's budget secretary, said they had a good conversation Tuesday, though no assurances were given by the speaker. Brinkley says there's still time to make progress.
Hogan isn't happy about the lack of progress on his tax-relief proposals. His push to provide tax credits for businesses that donate to private schools also is a tough sell in the House of Delegates
The speaker, a Democrat, says he talked candidly about difficulties some of the governor's proposals face in the House, though he did not elaborate.
The Legislature has restored funding to education and state employee pay to the budget. However, Hogan still would need to approve the funds.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Follow The La Crosse Tribune
Top Jobs
Union National Bank & Trust Co
With Union National Bank you can now apply for a mortgage and …
Sage Plumbing
So reliable and efficient that while we dispose of your old to…
When you use spray foam insulation you get a(n):
Stop by Wiebke's and stock up! We have ammunition, targets, an…
Call today for a FREE confidential consultation
Today's Question
Yes
No
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Email:
La Crosse Tribune Newsletter
Breaking News, News Update and Sports Update Headlines. Delivered at 11a.m. daily.
La Crosse Tribune promotions
Business Report Newsletter
La Crosse Tribune Jobs Newsletter
New employment opportunities in the region.
La Crosse Tribune Homes Newsletter
Local homes for sale.
Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUVs, Motorcycles, ATVs, Boats, RV's & more
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
SEARCH ALL ADS
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with lacrossetribune.com account:
Username & Password Required!

