Rolly: Utah presidential visits -- a history of cheers, jeers, Mormon meetings, even hair pulling
In 2012, The Salt Lake Tribune made a photo array of presidential visits gleaned from the Utah Historical Society (yet another such gallery will seem Friday on sltrib.com) and came up with a variety of sitting presidents who came to the state, normally with...
In 2012, The Salt Lake Tribune made a photo array of presidential visits gleaned from the Utah Historical Society (yet another such gallery will seem Friday on sltrib.com) and came up with a variety of sitting presidents who came to the state, normally with the mandatory courtesy call to LDS Church headquarters.
There could have been additional, but Utah has not been prominent on the dance card of commanders in chief through the years.
The 1st presidential visit, it seems, came from Ulysses S. Grant in the late 1860s, when Utah was a territory and earlier had been in open rebellion against the federal government — anything a couple of Utah legislators would advocate nowadays.
A further pre-statehood presidential trip came in 1890 from Benjamin Harrison, who rode in a horse-drawn carriage flanked by uniformed guards on Salt Lake City's Major Street to cheering throngs. Harrison later would grant an official pardon to Mormon polygamists, a step in the path of Utah winning statehood in 1896.
Theodore Roosevelt came in 1903 and regaled a huge crowd though also navigating Key Street in a horse-drawn carriage.
William Howard Taft's 340-pound frame can be observed in photographs waddling into the Alta Club for a hearty lunch just before speaking at the Utah State Fair.
Woodrow Wilson and Warren Harding were next to visit Salt Lake City. Harding's stop came two months prior to he died in 1923 of an apparent heart attack while visiting San Francisco.
John F. Kennedy, the 35th president, visited Salt Lake City in September 1963 as hordes of effectively-wishers welcomed him in an open convertible throughout a parade on Principal Street. Two months later, he would be dead, gunned down by an assassin in Dallas.
Kennedy previously had sojourned to Utah's capital as a candidate in 1960. The Massachusetts senator, who would grow to be the initial Catholic president, impressed locals with his information of the Book of Mormon during a speech at the Salt Lake Tabernacle.
In the course of his stay, Kennedy enjoyed a warm stop by with David O. McKay, then president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A month later, the Mormon prophet was visited by Republican nominee Richard M. Nixon, who won the LDS leader's individual endorsement.
When Ronald Reagan — arguably the most common U.S. president ever amongst Utahns — came in 1982, it was apparent that issues had changed in the decades given that the Kennedy assassination. Reagan's automobile was portion of a massive motorcade, making it tough to distinguish which car carried the commander in chief.
George H. W. Bush, the 41st president, and his son, George W. Bush, the 43rd president, visited Utah additional than when. But when the latter addressed the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in 2005, Salt Lake City Mayor Rocky Anderson led a protest in Pioneer Park more than the U.S. war in Iraq. That prompted veterans groups to threaten to boycott the city.
During a different Bush II stop by, the Utah Republican Party held a political rally when the president landed at the executive airport, spending additional than $50,000 on vendors giving lighting, sound, cameras and seating for the event.
Neighborhood GOP leaders later complained when the Republican National Committee refused to reimburse them. They appealed to Sen. Orrin Hatch, who raked in a sizable amount through his personal private fundraiser featuring Bush, but the Utah Republican mentioned he had nothing to do with the airport rally and it was not his debt.
Other presidential visitors to Utah incorporated Lyndon Johnson, Dwight Eisenhower and Harry Truman. Franklin Roosevelt visited the state in 1932, when he was New York governor and campaigning for the Oval Workplace. He visited Utah Gov. George Dern, who later would be Roosevelt's secretary of war.
The New Dealer, nevertheless, was not a favourite of LDS leaders. In every single of FDR's four elections, church President Heber J. Grant urged the faithful to vote against him. But Roosevelt carried Utah all 4 instances.
Then-candidate Jimmy Carter campaigned in Utah in 1976, and that might have been the most colorful stop by of all.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

