This week, the Mississippi Supreme Court unanimously ruled that death row inmate Jeffrey Havard can proceed with an evidentiary hearing to challenge his murder conviction. Havard was convicted in 2002 of killing his girlfriend’s 6-month-old daughter. Havard claims the girl slipped from his arms as he was giving her a bath and hit her head. (More on the case here .)
Controversial medical examiner Steven Hayne concluded that the girl had died of Shaken Baby Syndrome (SBS), a diagnosis that is also highly controversial. Hayne also claimed to have found evidence of sexual abuse, a finding that allowed prosecutors to seek the death penalty.
As I’ve written here before , Hayne has since come under fire for his improbable testimony, sloppy practices and herculean workload. He was effectively fired as the state’s quasi-official medical examiner in 2008, although he still periodically testifies in civil cases, in old cases in which the defendant was given a new trial, and for defense attorneys. Hayne has since reversed part of his testimony in the Havard case, although as noted here at The Watch , he has still given highly suspect testimony in other SBS cases.
The ruling this week doesn’t grant Havard a new trial, but it does give him permission to ask for an evidentiary hearing on the scientific legitimacy of the Shaken Baby Syndrome diagnosis. A favorable ruling in that hearing could then result in a new trial. Since Havard’s conviction, SBS has come under fire as new research has called its underlying premises into doubt . This ruling basically acknowledges as much. But the court rejected Havard’s claims related to Hayne’s credibility as an expert witness.
While the court’s ruling on SBS is correct — and encouraging, given how difficult it can be to get appeals courts to revisit convictions based on science later shown to be flawed — focusing solely on the SBS ruling shows that the Mississippi Supreme Court still isn’t ready to acknowledge and account for the full extent of Hayne’s corruption of the state’s criminal justice system.
Radley Balko blogs about criminal justice, the drug war and civil liberties for The Washington Post. He is the author of the book "Rise of the Warrior Cop: The Militarization of America's Police Forces."
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

