Clive Mason/Getty Images
The second round of the 2015 French Open is now underway, with Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova in action on Day 4.
The 2015 French Open has moved into the second round and the top seeds on both sides of the bracket are still intact. Men's No. 1 seed Novak Djokovic and women's No. 1 seed Serena Williams both made it through their matches on Tuesday and will make their third round bid on Thursday. But first, we have the other side of the bracket set for Wednesday at Roland Garros, including No. 2 seeds Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova.
Sharapova will get the day started on Philippe-Chatrier Court, facing off against Vitalia Diatchenko at 11 a.m. local time (5 a.m. ET). Federer won't be in action until women's No. 26 seed Samantha Stosur finishes her match against Amandine Hesse on Suzanne-Lenglen Court. Federer's match against Marcel Granollers will be the second match on that court.
Federer has only won one French Open title over the course of his legendary career, which is surprising given his 17 Grand Slam titles. With Rafael Nadal struggling coming into the tournament, this may be Federer's best chance of getting a second title at Roland Garros. He's got a long way to go, regarldess.
Other top seeds will be in action on the day. Women's No. 3 seed Simona Halep will be taking on Mirjana Lucic-Baroni, while men's No. 5 seed Kei Nishikori will be taking on Thomaz Bellucci.
This all gets underway at 5 a.m., with ESPN 2 having the televised coverage through 10 a.m. From there, the Tennis Channel will carry coverage through 3:30 p.m.   Live streaming options are available at WatchESPN , and via the  Tennis Channel's official site . Below are some of the important matchups, with a full schedule available  at the Roland Garros website .
Men's Singles
No. 19 Robert Bautista Agut vs. Lukas Rosol
No. 21 Pablo Cuevas vs. Dominic Thiem
No. 22 Philipp Kohlschreiber vs. Pablo Andujar
No. 24 Ernests Gulbis vs. Nicolas Mahut
No. 28 Fabio Fognini vs. Benoit Paire
No. 32 Fernando Verdasco vs. Benjamin Becker
Women's Singles
No. 8 Carla Suarez Navarro vs. Virginie Razzano
No. 9 Ekaterina Makarova vs. Teliana Pereira
No. 11 Angelique Kerber vs. Ajla Tomljanovic
No. 13 Lucie Safarova vs. Kurumi Nara
No. 19 Elina Svitolina vs. Yulia Putinsteva
No. 20 Sabine Lisicki vs. Daria Gavrilova
No. 21 Garbine Muguruza vs. Camila Giorgi
No. 26 Samantha Stosur vs. Amandine Hesse
No. 28 Flavia Pennetta vs. Magdalena Rybarikova
No. 29 Alize Cornet vs. Alexandra Dulgheru
More from SBNation.com
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot password?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Almost done,
By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .
Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.
We have our own Community Guidelines at SBNation.com. You should read them.
I Agree to the Community Guidelines
Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.
We have our own Community Guidelines at SBNation.com. You should read them.
I Agree to the Community Guidelines
Authenticating
Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.
In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
Yes, share my data

