ago
Amherst could be the next western Massachusetts to raise the minimum age to buy tobacco from 18-to-21.
ago
10:00 pm
April 8, 2015
The cast and production crew of The Flash discuss at WonderCon about what to expect in the final episodes of the season.
April 8, 2015
The wheels of Revelation have begun to turn, and five newly christened Angels of the Apocalypse may be the only hope for preventing the impe…
Piperade is a quintessential Basque dish combining the signature ingredients of tomatoes, peppers, onions and garlic and is delicious when s…
Murder trial is first of two for Aaron Hernandez
Hernandez was charged in the double killing in May of last year and pleaded not guilty
By Shaun Towne; Reporting by Walt Buteau, WPRI Published:
April 9, 2015, 10:30 pm
Updated:
FALL RIVER, Mass. (WPRI) — The jury in the trial of Aaron Hernandez is in the middle of deliberations, but regardless of their verdict – Hernandez has another murder trial in his future.
Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado were shot to death and a third man was injured by gunfire in what police say was a drive-by in Boston’s south end in July of 2012 – 11 months before Odin Lloyd was shot to death.
Hernandez was charged in the double killing in May of last year and pleaded not guilty. He also pleaded not guilty to Lloyd’s murder, for which he’s now standing trial. The judge in that case ruled the double murder cannot be mentioned during the current trial.
Investigators in Boston said they didn’t start looking at Hernandez until an SUV with Rhode Island plates that was loaned to the former NFL player was found during the Lloyd investigation.
A search warrant affidavit indicates a witness from Rhode Island told police a Hispanic man was driving the silver SUV that pulled up next to the victims’ car, and that eyewitness heard six shots seconds before the SUV drove away.
After the Lloyd murder, a connection was made by investigators and a search warrant helped police seize a silver SUV from the Bristol, Conn. garage of Hernandez’s uncle.
According to the affidavit, Hernandez was spotted on video inside and outside a nearby club. After he was indicted for the Boston shootings, police said they believe Hernandez shot the victims because one of them spilled a drink on him in the club.
The affidavit states the club security supervisor called police five days after Lloyd’s body was found and told them the Boston murders were related to the North Attleboro case.
Investigators have said that Alexander Bradley, who is suing Hernandez for allegedly shooting him in Florida about four months before the Lloyd shooting, was with Hernandez in the SUV during the double murder.
Hernandez is being held without bail in both the Lloyd murder and the Boston double murder. Regardless of the outcome of the former, he’s expected to face trial in the latter later this year.
Share this:
11:15 am
Photo Gallery
Golf is a beautiful sport and nothing says beauty like The Masters tournament in Augusta, Georgia.
© 2000-2015 LIN Television Corporation, a Media General company. All rights reserved
April 2015
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:

