Indicted by federal grand jury, senator claims innocence; colleagues offer support
by Al Sullivan
Reporter staff writer
 | 2 
 | 
 | 
ACCUSED – U.S. Senator Robert Menendez was charged with corruption by a federal grand jury. He said he will fight the charges
U.S. Sen. Robert Menendez vowed this week to vigorously defend himself against public corruption charges made in an indictment handed down by a federal grand jury on Wednesday. Federal investigators allege the New Jersey Democrat improperly helped a Florida-based eye surgeon, Salomon Melgen, a campaign contributor to Menendez, in a number of ways. Menendez has described the doctor as a close family friend.
The federal indictment charges Menendez on 14 counts that include bribery and conspiracy.
The grand jury’s indictment included eight counts each against Menendez and Melgen for bribery and three counts each for honest services fraud, one count for conspiracy, and one count for violating the Travel Act.
Menendez was also charged with one count of making false statements.
Some of these charges repeat claims made public in early March that Menendez interceded with regulators on Melgen’s behalf in a dispute over Medicare charges. Menendez also allegedly tried to help Melgen obtain a port security contract with the Dominican Republic. Menendez also allegedly received gifts from Melgen, including several air plane trips – which Menendez later reimbursed.
New charges in the indictment claim that Menendez intervened on Melgen’s behalf in order to aid Melgen’s girlfriend, a foreign national, to gain access to the United States. The charges also expanded some of the reported gifts that Melgen gave Menendez to include a stay in a luxury hotel in Paris.
_____________
____________
Menendez had taken a number of trips to Dominican Republic on Melgen’s private jet, later reimbursing Melgen more than $58,000 after the trips became public. Menendez at the time called the original lack of repayment “an oversight.” He later repaid for an additional trip to Florida.
Menendez comes out swinging
In a brief press conference in Newark on April 1, Menendez vigorously defended himself.
“For nearly three years, I’ve lived under a Justice Department cloud and today I am outraged that this cloud has not been lifted,” he said. “I’m outraged that prosecutors at the Justice Department were tricked into starting this investigation three years ago with false allegations by those who have a political motive to silence me, but I will not be silenced. I’m confident – at the end of the day – I will be vindicated and they will be exposed.”
He said that he began his career working to uncover corruption, and that he would not end his career as the target of alleged claims that he was involved with corruption.
“I have always conducted myself in accordance with the law,” he said. “I have always stood up for what’s right. I fight for the issues I believe in, the people I represent, and for the safety and security of this country every single day. That’s who I am and I’m proud of what I have accomplished. And I’m not going anywhere.”
Menendez added, “I’m angry because prosecutors at the Justice Department don’t know the difference between friendship and corruption and have chosen to twist my duties as a senator – and as a friend – into something improper. I am gratified to live in a country where prosecutors’ mistakes can be corrected by courts and juries and I ask my friends, colleagues and community to hold their judgment and remember all the other times where prosecutors have gotten it wrong.”
While he indicated that he intended to continue to serve as U.S. senator while fighting the charges, Menendez said he would temporarily step down as the ranking member of the Foreign Relations Committee.
“I am hereby notifying you that I am temporarily stepping down as Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,” the senator wrote in a letter to the Senate Democratic leadership. “While there is no caucus rule that dictates that I do so, I believe it is in the best interests of the Committee, my colleagues, and the Senate, which is why I have chosen to do so.”
But he also made clear that he would retake his seat as soon as he successfully defended himself against the allegations.
“The people of this great state have elected me to serve and represent their interests in the United States Senate and that is exactly what I will do, no matter how long it takes to clear my good name,” he said at the press conference. “New Jersey is my home and I will continue to fight for you.”
Al Sullivan may be reached at asullivan@hudsonreporter.com .
side bar
Officials come out on Menendez’s behalf
Officials throughout the county, state and the nation – mostly Democrats – spoke out on behalf of U.S. Sen. Robert Menendez after he was indicted on charges of corruption on April 1.
Rep. Albio Sires responded to the charges.
“Bob Menendez and I have worked together for years to improve the lives of New Jerseyans. When you look at his work, making laws that give working families the support that they need and ensuring that our communities have the resources they need, it’s clear that he will never stop fighting for our state,” Sires said. “All Americans, not just Senator Menendez, are entitled to a presumption of innocence.”
Jersey City Mayor Steven M. Fulop also urged New Jerseyans to extend Menendez the presumption of innocence.
“Unfortunately, accusations are nothing new in politics and Senator Menendez, like all Americans, is entitled to a presumption of innocence, which is what should be offered today, especially after reflecting on the Senator’s record of service, commitment to residents, lack of facts and circumstances that involve leaked information,” he said.
Hudson County Executive Tom DeGise also portrayed Menendez as a fighter.
“Even though Bob Menendez has made it all the way to the United States Senate, he’s never forgotten that he started as a young man in Hudson County fighting to improve access to education,” DeGise said. “It’s what drives him to keep fighting for what’s most important to us, things like funding to expand the Hudson Bergen Light Rail, fixing our immigration system, and expanding access to health care. Bob’s opponents have been trying to bring him down for years and have failed miserably every time.”
Bayonne Mayor James Davis said, “During my time as mayor it has been an honor and privilege to share Bayonne’s constituency with Bob Menendez. As a senator, he fights for us, is an advocate for Bayonne on the federal level, but, moreover, is a true friend and ally of all the people who call New Jersey home. With regard to these charges: They are an accusation.”
U.S. Sen. Cory Booker, Menendez’s Democratic colleague in the Senate, made similar statements to the others. “Our nation and state face critical issues and I will continue to partner with Senator Menendez to take on the challenges before you,” he said.
Others that spoke out in Menendez’s defense include Representatives Frank Pallone, Bill Pascrell, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Bonnie Watson Coleman, and Donald Norcross; state Democrats Vice-Chair Lizette Delgado-Polanco, Essex County State Senator Teresa Ruiz, Camden Mayor Dana Redd, and Assemblyman Jamel Holley.
similar stories

