Pasco protestors arrested for blocking street
By Kathleen Jacob Published: Apr 11, 2015 at 6:56 PM PDT Last Updated: Apr 11, 2015 at 6:56 PM PDT
Share this story
PASCO, Wash. --It's been two months since Antonio Zambrano-Montes was shot and killed by three Pasco Police Officers, and today, about 100 people gathered at volunteer park to rally for justice.
They marched from the park to the intersection at 10th and Lewis where Zambrano-Montes was killed. But on the way, four people were arrested for disorderly conduct.
Its been two months since the death of Antonio Zambrano Montes, and our community is still looking for answers.
"It is time for us to put pressure on those in charge, it is time for us to demand change, it is time for us to demand justice from those who are in power," said the family's attorney George Trejo Jr.
Police shot and killed Zambrano after they say he had been throwing rocks at traffic.. and them. It's something many people in the community feel strongly about.
"They should be held at the same standard that we all are, these people that killled this guy, they should be held at the same standard I would have been if it had been me," said protester Margi Suarez.
"Rocks kill, and they're protecting themselves and society, and the cops didn't find him, society called because they were in fear," said police supporter  Tracy.
What started as a rally in the park turned into a march through the streets to the intersection where Zambrano was shot and killed.
But before they could reach the intersection of 10th and Lewis, they had a run in with police.
Four people were arrested for disorderly conduct, three of them were leaders of Tri-Cities Community Solutions. These are the first arrests since Zambrano's death.
"Why are they gonna put them in jail just for saying how they feel?" asked Margi.
"It was a real shock, you know, we didn't think that police would actually arrest anyone," said protestor Raguel Diaz.
The group marched to the jail to show their support and demand answers.
"It was a peaceful protest so honestly there's no excise for people of our community to be arrested," said protestor Edith Guzman.
But arrests aren't stopping any of these protesters from getting their voices heard.
"Without voices no ones gonna get heard and that's what we need, more voices," said Raquel.
In Pasco...Kathleen Jacob...Action News.
The three community leaders who were arrested are expected to be released from jail tonight. Another march is planned for Tuesday starting at 8 am at John Dam Plaza in Richland.
By WBEAVERS Published: Dec 22, 2014 at 3:34 PM PDT Last Updated: Dec 22, 2014 at 3:34 PM PDT
they were grazing in the field by our house, when we saw them, they let us get so close, we were surprised, i did use my zoom very little..
By WBEAVERS Published: Dec 22, 2014 at 3:34 PM PDT Last Updated: Dec 22, 2014 at 3:34 PM PDT
they were grazing in the field by our house, when we saw them, they let us get so close, we were surprised, i did use my zoom very little..
By Ranbud Published: Oct 3, 2014 at 3:28 PM PDT Last Updated: Oct 3, 2014 at 3:28 PM PDT
Grand Opening for Forte Studios in Kennewick WA. A Studio for Photographers to have access to a fully stocked photo studio without the cost of owing their own studio. Great for amateur and professionals looking for a great place to produce some great photos.
Pasco,
WA
99301

