Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Former Port Authority chairman resigns from law firm he co-founded
David Samson
David Samson, the former Port Authority chairman, announced he was resigning from the powerful law firm he co-founded, Wolff & Samson.  (Andrew Burton | Getty Images)
Former Port Authority Chairman David Samson , who resigned from the agency a year ago amid the broadening investigation into the 2013 Goerge Washington Bridge lane closures, announced Tuesday that he was retiring from the powerful law firm he co-founded.
"For personal, professional and health reasons, I have made the decision to retire," Samson, 75, said in a statement issued by his spokeswoman, Karen Kessler. "After my five decades of practicing law, it was time for new leaders to transition the firm for the future."
The politically connected firm, Wolff & Samson, has a broad range of practices including lobbying and real estate law, and has represented public agencies.
At times, the firm's clients did business with the Port Authority while Samson hgeaded the agency. For example, Wolff & Samson represented NJ Transit at a time when a $900,000-a-year lease with the Port Authority for park and ride space in North Bergen was reduced to $1-a-year, while Samson was the Port Authority chairman.
Samson's resignation from the Port Authority amid the broadening Bridgegate scandal in March 2014 coincided with a  downturn in the firm's lobbying business. State Election Law Enforcement Commission records show the firm and its affiliated lobbying shop were paid $753,198 to lobby public officials in 2014, down from $1,067,029 in 2013 and $1,108,774 in 2012 .
Kessler declined to comment when asked whether Samson's resignation was related to investigations into the lane closure scandal or its impact on the firm. She also declined to elaborate on the health of the former chairman, whose hands shook visibly at Port Authority meetings during the last several months of his tenure.
Samson, a former state attorney general who chaired Gov. Chris Christie's transition team following his election as governor in 2009, was later named chairman of the Port Authority by Christie. It was Christie who announced Samson's resignation from the agency last year.
Word of Samson's resignation from the firm was first reported by PolitickerNJ.
Assemblyman John Wisniewski (D-Middlesex), who co-chairs a joint legislative panel looking into the lane closures, declined to speculate on the timing of Samson's resignation from the firm, other than to say, "It's safe to assume he's preoccupied."
 
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for your subscription!
To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Political Viewpoints
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

