Judge Reprimands Bharara for &quotMedia Blitz" Following Silver Indictment
A federal judge reprimanded U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara for his &quotmedia blitz" following the indictment of Sheldon Silver on corruption charges in January, Capital New York reports. The warning came even as the judge rejected Silver's motion to dismiss...
A federal judge reprimanded U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara for his &quotmedia blitz" following the indictment of Sheldon Silver on corruption charges in January, Capital New York reports. The warning came even as the judge rejected Silver's motion to dismiss the case on the grounds that Bharara had made &quotprejudicial extrajudical statements."
In her selection rejecting Silver's motion to dismiss the case, United States District Court Judge Valerie Caproni wrote, &quotThe U.S. Attorney, though castigating politicians in Albany for playing fast and loose with the ethical guidelines that govern their conduct, strayed so close to the edge of the rules governing his personal conduct that defendant Sheldon Silver has a non-frivolous argument that he fell more than the edge to the defendant’s prejudice."
&quotIn certain, the court is troubled by remarks by the U.S. Lawyer that appeared to bundle together unproven allegations with regards to the defendant with broader commentary on corruption and a lack of transparency in particular elements of New York State politics."
The day right after the former New York state assembly speaker was arrested, Bharara delivered a gleeful speech at the New York Law College criticizing (rightfully) Albany's so-known as culture of &quotthree guys in a area," of which Silver was allegedly one particular.
&quotWhy three guys?" Bharara asked. &quotCan there be a lady? Do they usually have to be white? How little is the area that they can only match three males? Is it three men in a closet? Are there cigars? Can they have Cuban cigars now? Just after a though, does not it get a tiny gamy in that space?"
&quotCriminal circumstances must be tried in the courtroom and not in the press," Caproni wrote.
Photo credit: AP Pictures. Make contact with the author of this post: brendan.oconnor@gawker.com.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
11 April 2015 Saturday 19:10

