Recent
Recent
Saved
46 minutes ago
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) — Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner has signed into law a measure that grants two more years for the state's electric utilities to recover the cost of upgrading their delivery systems.
The law extends a "smart grid" oversight program that would have ended in 2017 and required the utilities to apply for rate increases to pay for upgrades.
Commonwealth Edison and Ameren Illinois now will continue to receive formulaic rate hikes through 2019 to cover the cost of installing smart-grid technology.
The two-year extension was approved by the General Assembly last year. Senate President John Cullerton held onto the bill until Pat Quinn left office on fears he's veto it.
Ameren Illinois spokeswoman Marcelyn Love says the legislative maneuvering delayed the start of installation of digital electric meters, but the utility is now ahead of schedule.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Email:
NEW: The Best of JG-TC (weekly)
The JG-TC weekly roundup gives you the highlights of the week.
Get It! Offers
Get the latest offers and updates from local businesses in this weekly email.
Special offers from our business partners
Be among the first to know about special offers from businesses near where you live and work!
Daily Headlines
Get the latest local headlines from JG-TC. See an example
Contests & Promotions
Don't miss a chance to win big! Get our periodic contest updates to stay in the know.
Garage Sales (weekly)
Receive the current days obituaries in your email!
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Gardening
Fishing
 Adidas  Flexon Silhouette  Air-lock Juicy Couture       Smart Clips Armani Exchange      Ke…
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
JG-TC Links & Services
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with jg-tc.com account:
Username & Password Required!

