Sources: Callaspo trade between #Braves and #Dodgers back on. Braves pulled Callaspo from lineup. Six-player deal. Uribe would go to ATL.
Rosenthal says the trade is done  and is only awaiting approval from the commissioner’s office.
Uribe is making $6.5 million this season in the final year of a two-year, $15 million deal. Getting him out of Los Angeles would allow the Dodgers to give more regular playing time to Cuban slugger Alex Guerrero .
SocraticGadfly - May 26, 2015 at 10:13 PM
Callapso probably got a brain when the Barves told him that in a couple of weeks, he could be traded to a last place team instead of the Dollars.
That said, who else is involved as far as the prospects?
Leave Comment
You must be logged in to leave a comment. Not a member? Register now!
Top Posts
Popular topics


on May 26, 2015 08:30 PM EDT
Sign Up for Sports World News' Newsletter and never miss out on our most popular stories.
Los Angeles Dodgers 1B Adrian Gonzalez. (Photo : Getty Images)
Tonight at 10:10 p.m. ET, the Atlanta Braves (22-22) and Los Angeles Dodgers (27-17) collide at Dodger Stadium in the middle contest of a three-game series live from Los Angeles.
Atlanta continues a 10-game road trip and will look to bounce back after having its two-match winning streak snapped last time out while Los Angeles looks for its second consecutive victory as it resumes a six-match road trip.
Like Us on Facebook
The Dodgers defeated the Braves 6-3 on Monday to open up this series.
Julio Teheran (4-1, 3.91 ERA) toes the rubber for Atlanta while Los Angeles counters with Clayton Kershaw and he is 2-3 with a 4.32 ERA thus far this season.
Teheran has allowed one run or fewer in three of his past four starts and pitched a season-high seven innings on Thursday against the Milwaukee Brewers.
Kershaw has limited Braves hitters to a .151 average against him, but he already has matched his career-high for losses with three this season.
Andre Ethier (6), Alex Guerrero (8) and Jimmy Rollins (5) each went yard for the Dodgers in their win on Monday.
Freddie Freeman picked up his 23rd RBI of the campaign in the loss for the Braves. Freeman is tied for second in the NL with 16 doubles this season.
Dodgers first baseman Adrian Gonzalez is tied for third in the MLB with a .344 batting average while he also ranks tied for first in doubles (17), fourth in slugging percentage (.624) and fifth in OPS (1.043).
 
To be the best, you have to beat the best and according to Dan Jenkins, Tiger Woods never did.
Follow us on
You have already subscribed. Thank you.
PHOTOS

