Published  5:35 PM EDT Apr 04, 2015
Photos
In response to heavy rains and flash flooding in many counties across the Commonwealth, Gov. Steve Beshear declared a statewide emergency effective April 3 to allow local officials immediate access to state resources to assist in public safety and recovery efforts. 
“We have reports of heavy damage in some areas of the state already, but the threat of thunderstorms and further flooding has not cleared Kentucky yet,” said Gov. Beshear.  “By declaring a state of emergency for the entire state, we can deploy any needed state assistance, such as National Guard troops, without delay.”
Several counties declared states of emergency Friday, and some school districts canceled classes because high water and flash flooding made bus transport and school access impossible.
Gov. Beshear and state officials remind drivers that it is important to check travel routes in affected counties prior to getting on the road.  Many roads are covered in water, and some have washed out entirely.   
The Commonwealth Emergency Operations Center (CEOC), located in Frankfort, remains on alert with staffing from Kentucky Emergency Management (KYEM) and KYNG monitoring the situation, fielding calls and responding to requests for assistance. 
 
The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.
8min
Senior staff from the House committee that oversees the Secret Service have asked the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General to look into allegations that U.S. Secret Service employees circulated private personnel information committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz.
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

