By Elliott Almond
When Stephen Curry's head hit the hardwood in Game 4 of the Western Conference final Monday, it was more than just a nightmarish moment for the Warriors and their fans. It has become the latest chapter in the ongoing debate over when someone should be cleared to get back on the playing field after head trauma.
The decision to allow the Warriors star to re-enter Game 4 in Houston became a point of contention Tuesday, the day after a freakish midair tumble called back into question the effectiveness of standardized concussion testing.
"We know those tests are imperfect," said Chris Nowinski, executive director of the Sports Legacy Institute and a doctoral candidate in behavioral neuroscience at Boston University School of Medicine.
Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry (30) flips upside down in the second quarter of Game 4 of the NBA Western Conference finals at the Toyota Center in Houston, Texas, on Monday, May 25, 2015.    (Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group)
"Was it worth the risk to put him back in or should we have given him 24 hours to see if he is clear?"
Some in the sports medicine community raised similar concerns, including Cindy Chang, formerly Cal's head team physician and founder of the California Concussion Coalition.
"You can't always tell how bad a concussion will be until 24 hours later," she said. "We all saw the injury on TV and saw how shocked and stunned he appeared after the injury."
Chang, an associate clinical professor in UC San Francisco's orthopedics department, said the next day could be telling if Curry were to acknowledge suffering from symptoms related to the fall.
Advertisement
"There's a lot at stake," she said. "That's what makes it hard to be a team physician. The athletes' interpretation of risk is very different at the higher level of competition."
Chang added that if such an injury occurred at a youth event "no question they should not go back into the game."
The director of the Stanford Concussion Center said Tuesday team physicians made the right decision in allowing Curry to return to action.
Jamshid Ghajar, a clinical professor of neurosurgery who is leading a major study for diagnosis and treatment guidelines for head injury, said sideline evaluations are difficult to make because of a lack of tools available that provide real answers. But he added that the Warriors' physicians, including colleague William Maloney, a Stanford professor of orthopedic surgery, handled the situation appropriately based on the reports he received.
Curry, the NBA's Most Valuable Player, rolled over the shoulder of Houston's Trevor Ariza with 5:52 left in the second quarter of Golden State's 128-115 defeat. The Warriors guard free fell before violently banging his head on the floor -- a scene replayed over and over in slow motion by ESPN.
Curry, who did not speak to reporters Tuesday, said after the game that he felt fine, despite missing seven of his 11 shots after returning, including his first three as the Rockets' lead grew back to 15. (They were only up by six when Curry re-entered.)
Concussion experts said it's difficult to evaluate the real effects after such a fall because the study of brain trauma remains in its infant stages.
"We don't know what a concussion is," said Ghajar, whose study involves all Stanford's athletes. As a result, sideline physicians can't be "expected to know what this condition is when nobody else knows what it is."
Generally speaking, a concussion is a change in brain function after the head suffers some kind of force.
Ghajar said a nagging problem with current concussion protocol testing is the lack of a way to measure the ability to focus.
Head injuries have become a major issue in the NFL and NHL because brutal hits to the head are endemic. It has not been much of an issue in the NBA, which implemented a concussion policy in 2011 with standardized language similar to other American professional sports. For example, a player showing signs of concussion symptoms is prohibited from playing, and can't return until passing tests that include memory, awareness and balance assessments.
Warriors physicians put Curry through the NBA's concussion examination twice before clearing him to play.
Warriors general manager Bob Myers said the team had no reason to hold Curry out after the examinations. But some questioned the wisdom of letting the team's star continue when Curry missed the basket altogether on his first shot upon returning.
"He shoots an air ball," Myers said. "It'd be one thing if he'd went out there at halftime and warmed up and then did that."
Nowinski, also co-director of the Boston University's CTE Center that studies traumatic brain injury, said most fans will move on if Curry shows no aftereffects Wednesday in Game 5 at Oracle Arena. But if the star reports symptoms that prohibit him from playing, "this will be a watershed moment," he added.
Questions also will linger should Curry have an off night in Game 5, a byproduct of the increased public awareness.
"It is great to see the average fan is educated that it is a real risk when there is a big hit to the head," Nowinski said.
Contact Elliott Almond at 408-920-5865. Follow him at Twitter.com/elliottalmond .

