Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
American flags and signs that said “Bye Bye BLM” were seen at the entrance of the bash
Post to Facebook
Hundreds gather for Bundy celebration American flags and signs that said “Bye Bye BLM” were seen at the entrance of the bash Check out this story on thespectrum.com: http://www.thespectrum.com/story/news/local/2015/04/11/hundreds-gather-bundy-celebration/25660611/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Brandon Mullens, StGeorge 9:13 p.m. MDT April 11, 2015
Signs that read “Bye Bye BLM” greeted the attendees at the celebration.
(Photo: Brandon Mullens / Desert Valley Times)
1 CONNECT 2 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
BUNKERVILLE, Nev. – Hundreds of  Cliven Bundy supporters gathered near a Virgin River Bridge for the “Bundy Ranch Liberty Celebration” on Saturday afternoon.
The event  was in celebration of the Bundy “victory” against the Bureau of Land Management in Bunkerville last year, organizers said.
American flags and signs that said “Bye Bye BLM” were seen at the entrance of the bash.
A religious ceremony involving the blowing of two shofars kicked off the celebration followed by the Pledge of Allegiance and the national anthem sang by Bundy’s daughter, Hanna Bundy.
“This event tells me these folks are never going to give up, which is so exciting because it’s not fun what I do being away from my home,” said Nevada Assemblywoman Michele Fiore, also a speaker at the bash. “But it’s a necessary evil of what I do in Carson City to protect our folks. Our people will never give up, and I’ll never give up on them.”
Fiore, who tried to push AB408 through the Legislature said the bill would have gutted federal authority in Nevada.
The original version of AB408 prohibited the federal government from owning water rights and wide swaths of public land within the state’s borders, and it would have allowed county commissions to parcel out the land for commercial use, according to the Legislative Council Bureau.
However, her Bundy-supported bill was gutted before it was approved and passed on by the Natural Resources, Agriculture and Mining committee on April 6, Fiore said.
“They’re (other committee members) afraid of our Legislative Counsel Bureau,” Fiore said. “Right now the LCB is comparing court cases and precedents versus the constitution, or the constitutionality of the bill. They amended it to get it out of committee, and I’m sure there’s going to be more amendments to it on the floor, so it’ll be a floor fight.”
Bundy and his family charged into the national spotlight  last year when the BLM closed some 600,000 acres of public land  to remove “trespass cattle,” many of which, Bundy said, were owned by him.
Bundy has unfinished business with the BLM  — and perhaps with the FBI, Las Vegas police and other agencies — following the April 12, 2014, standoff.
It pitted federal BLM police against heavily armed states’ rights advocates who had converged on the Bundy ranch to stop a roundup of Bundy cattle from public rangeland.
The BLM backed off, citing safety concerns. It released the 380 cattle that had been collected, gave up the week-long roundup and lifted a closure of a vast range half the size of the state of Delaware.
Bureau spokeswoman Celia Boddington released a statement Friday saying the agency “remains resolute” in its goal to resolve the Bundy cattle dispute administratively and judicially.
Despite attempts to get comments from Bundy at the celebration about the bill, BLM or party, Bundy’s bodyguards, led by their self-proclaimed leader, who identified himself as “Buddha,” kept all media away from Bundy.
“I can’t allow you to interview him at this time because he’s with his grandchild and he’s listening to the speakers,” Buddha said.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Follow Brandon on Twitter, @BMullensDVT , and Facebook, BMullensDVT
Related Stories
Read or Share this story: http://www.thespectrum.com/story/news/local/2015/04/11/hundreds-gather-bundy-celebration/25660611/
More Stories

