Published April 10, 2015
WASHINGTON –  A U.S. Secret Service officer was arrested Friday on a burglary charge in Washington, D.C., police told Fox News. 
The incident, the latest in a series of embarrassing episodes for the agency, involves an off-duty officer assigned to the Foreign Missions Branch. 
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
The U.S. Secret Service Office of Professional Responsibility is looking into the allegations, agency spokesman Brian Leary told Fox News.
The officer in question, identified as Arthur Baldwin, was arrested early Friday in northeast Washington on a felony charge of first-degree attempted burglary and destruction of property. 
Court records show Baldwin was to be arraigned Friday afternoon. The records do not list an attorney for Baldwin, and a telephone number for him could not be located.
Baldwin’s security clearance has been suspended and he has been placed on administrative leave.
Earlier this week, a high-ranking supervisor was placed on administrative leave after a female employee alleged that he assaulted her after-hours at agency headquarters. 
The Secret Service said the supervisor, identified as 48-year-old Xavier Morales, had his security clearance suspended after "allegations of misconduct and potential criminal activity." The female employee claimed that Morales, a manager in the agency's security clearance division and her boss, made unwanted advances toward her after they returned from a party at a Washington restaurant March 31. The party was held to celebrate Morales' assignment to head the Secret Service field office in Louisville.
The employee told investigators that Morales told her during the party that he was in love with her and wanted to have sex with her. As first reported by The Washington Post, after they returned to the office, the employee claimed Morales tried to kiss her and grabbed her arms when she resisted. Morales ultimately relented after a brief struggle. 
And a few weeks before that incident, allegations surfaced that agents drove a car into a bomb-investigation scene after a night of partying March 4. 
Fox News' Mike Emanuel and The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Advertisement

