Exclusive Free E-Book
Claim The Ultimate Privacy Guide (a $79.95 value) FREE when you subscribe to Personal Liberty Digest™ today.
We will not sell or rent your email address to anyone for any reason. You can un-subscribe at any time.
Hillary Nixon
Posted on
0 Shares
“I am not a crook.” — President Richard Nixon
“The American people are tired of liars and people who pretend to be something they’re not.” — Hillary Clinton
Hillary Clinton is the front-runner for the Democratic Party’s presidential nomination next year. It’s more of a coronation for an American queen by Democrats who believe Hillary’s ascension is something ordained by great literature — or at least the TV series “Game of Thrones.”
Her one official Democratic opponent, Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, looks more like the nutty professor than a future president. So the liberal establishment wants nobody to get in the way of Clinton being America’s next president.
After the African-American experiment with President Barack Obama turned into a dismal failure, the Democrats have not given an inch on their message of diversity. And since America is not ready yet for a handicapped-transgender woman president, then there is no other choice than Hillary Clinton with her vast experience of entertaining at the White House, being “made” a U.S. Senator and what some have questioned as her terrible tenure as secretary of state.
What’s that poor aging lady to do? Her husband and former President Bill Clinton wants back in the White House to use his influence the way Rasputin used his influence on Tsar Nicholas II a century ago.
We have come to a place where perhaps the presidency is determined either by birthright (presidential hopeful Jeb Bush) or by marriage (Hillary Clinton).
How is this possible when there are 319 million people in the United States — Americans who are the most brilliant, productive and innovative people in the world? Instead, we are left picking over stale Bush and Clinton leftovers.
Hillary has been ceaselessly promoted by the world’s finest PR agencies (24-hour TV cable news). Short of divine intervention, Hillary Clinton will represent the Democratic Party next year.
Why should we be surprised? Like Richard Nixon, Hillary has always been paranoid. Remember the vast right-wing conspiracy that targeted her husband after those awful Monica Lewinsky rumors? President Richard Nixon’s common complaint was that “they” were out to get him. “They” were a big group, led by the press, the liberals and those damn hippies who protested what had become his war in Southeast Asia.
It is difficult to see why Hillary would even want to be president. It isn’t for money. The Clintons together made $26 million giving speeches last year.
Dick Nixon and Hillary Clinton are anything but ordinary people
As Mrs. Clinton tells it, she wants to run for president because her granddaughter Charlotte has inspired her. In her new book “Hard Choices,” Clinton said that the birth of her granddaughter made her think about the future of all children and motivated her political plans. Hillary got off lucky. Nixon had to drag his dog into it for his famous Checker’s Speech, which kept his political career alive. And, of course, Nixon loved to point out how he was just an ordinary guy:
…
But Pat and I have the satisfaction that every dime that we have got is honestly ours.
The Clintons have been replaying the same story decades after Nixon used it, so much so that Bill Clinton told NBC’s David Gregory: “She’s not out of touch, and she advocated and worked as a senator for things that were good for ordinary people. And before that, all her life…” But the Hillary shocker that so reminded me of Nixon is the total and complete arrogance of both to the media that is part and parcel of their disrespect for us “ordinary people.”
Pride comes before the fall
During the late days of Watergate, Nixon was asked by a reporter if he was angry. “Don’t get the impression that you arouse my anger,” Nixon said. “You see, one can only be angry with those he respects.”
Of course, Nixon didn’t want anyone to hear what he said in his secret tapes in the White House; and it cost him his presidency. His objection was that whatever was said belonged exclusively to the president. Hillary, the candidate, doesn’t have executive privilege. And as former secretary of state, she has produced only a fraction of the emails that she wrote as secretary; and those were handpicked by her lawyers. Like Nixon, who released little by little some of the tapes to the Watergate Committee but not others, Hillary finds herself in the same position but without presidential privilege.
The pressure is mounting on Hillary to not simply release emails cherry-picked by her attorneys. Republican investigators are especially interested in Clinton’s correspondence in the days and weeks following the Benghazi murders.
Washington Examiner reported:
Hillary Clinton should turn over her entire server, not just the 300 emails released by the State Department, the top Republican investigating the terrorist attacks on Benghazi said Friday.
House Select Committee on Benghazi Chairman Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., repeated his demand for Clinton to hand over the private server she used while she was secretary of state to his committee, which is investigating the Sept. 11, 2012, terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya.
Gowdy maintains the Benghazi panel needs more information, including thousands more emails from Clinton’s private server, before he’ll schedule her testimony.
There will be a great deal of questions as to what the former secretary of state knew and when she knew it. The smoking gun for Nixon was that the White House tapes gave a timeline to not only his understanding of the Watergate break-in but also the subsequent and criminal lengths with which he tried to cover it up. I think Hillary, too, has a smoking gun and that the Democratic Party is doing all it can to bury it.
In March, Politico published “Hillary in Nixon’s shadow,” an opinion piece by Todd S. Purdum, in which he reported:
“This is like the Nixon tapes, in a sense,” said Ken Khachigian, who was a young speechwriter on Nixon’s White House staff and is now a grizzled veteran of California’s Republican political wars. “Everybody wanted access. We resisted, and then they were eked out in death by a thousand cuts. Finally they were expropriated and now belong to the archives.”
“In some ways, this is no different,” he added. “But Nixon’s motivation was to record history, frankly. Her motivation was to control history. It’s obvious that she was wary of having her fate in the hands of other people, and it just underscores the secretiveness that she’s had for years, and how wary she is, looking over her shoulder.”
Nixon and Hillary Clinton are two peas in a pod. The Nixon White House corruption wasn’t understood until he was into his second term. With Hillary, we can nip it in the bud before she is elected president and exercises what I think is her vast potential to disgrace the presidency. Of course, that may mean that ordinary Americans like us won’t have Hillary Clinton to kick around anymore.
Yours in good times and bad,
–John Myers
This entry was posted in Featured and tagged Hillary Clinton . Bookmark the permalink .
Post navigation
John Myers
is editor of Myers’ Energy and Gold Report. The son of C.V. Myers, the original publisher of Oilweek Magazine, John has worked with two of the world’s largest investment publishers, Phillips and Agora. He was the original editor for Outstanding Investments and has more than 20 years experience as an investment writer. John is a graduate of the University of Calgary. He has worked for Prudential Securities in Spokane, Wash., as a registered investment advisor. His office location in Calgary, Alberta, is just minutes away from the headquarters of some of the biggest players in today’s energy markets. This gives him personal access to everyone from oil CEOs to roughnecks, where he learns secrets from oil insiders he passes on to his subscribers. Plus, during his years in Spokane he cultivated a network of relationships with mining insiders in Idaho, Oregon and Washington.
Join the Discussion
Comment Policy: We encourage an open discussion with a wide range of viewpoints, even extreme ones, but we will not tolerate racism, profanity or slanderous comments toward the author(s) or comment participants. Make your case passionately, but civilly. Please don't stoop to name calling. We use filters for spam protection. If your comment does not appear, it is likely because it violates the above policy or contains links or language typical of spam. We reserve the right to remove comments at our discretion.
Exclusive Free E-Book
Claim your FREE copy of The Ultimate Privacy Guide (a $79.95 value) and your FREE subscription to Personal Liberty Digest™ when you sign up today!
We will not sell or rent your email address to anyone for any reason. You can un-subscribe at any time.
Look Inside!
Issues And Actions Involving Gun Rights
Helping You Prepare For Emergency Situations
A deeper look at important issues
Exclusive Free E-Book
Claim The Ultimate Privacy Guide (a $79.95 value) FREE when you subscribe to Personal Liberty Digest™ today.
Thegovernment’s assault on your personal liberties, including transgressions by the NSA and IRS, proves NOTHING IS OFF-LIMITS!  But they’re not your only enemy. In your FREE copy of The Ultimate Privacy Guide discover simple, effective strategies for making Big Business and Big Government BUTT OUT of your personal life!
We will not sell or rent your email address to anyone for any reason. You can un-subscribe at any time.
Look Inside The Ultimate Privacy Guide
The unconstitutional assault on America's civil liberties is continuing with fanatical vigor thanks to the government's gross misuse of power, including transgressions by the NSA and IRS. NOTHING IS OFF-LIMITS! Government SPYING and MANIPULATION is now becoming the American way. But they’re not your only enemy. In your FREE copy of The Ultimate Privacy Guide you'll discover how to:
Keep your home secure and private!
Avoid online identity theft!
Avoid harassing phone calls!
And much, much more!

