May 26, 2015  5:31 PM ET
The SEC could use its prestige to make major changes in player conduct policy. (USATSI)
DESTIN, Florida -- One SEC coach quietly congratulated himself late last year when Oklahoma State dismissed Tyreek Hill following a felony domestic assault charge.
The coach was glad he hadn't recruited the player who would eventually become the Big 12 Offensive Newcomer of the Year. Or the player who on film ran the "fastest 100-meter guy in the history of the world," according to that same coach.
It became a deal breaker early on in recruiting when he ran across Hill's Twitter handle.
"It was repulsive," the coach said. "I wouldn't be able to say it to you. I wouldn't be able to say it a female of any sort."
It's one thing for a coach to take a moral stand. It's another for an entire conference. And let's face it, it would be a cultural revolution if it happened in the SEC.
If you're like me, this was your immediate reaction: You mean, the conference allows transfers accused of domestic assault?
And that philosophy doesn't necessarily make the SEC rogue. A quick check of the other nine FBS conferences found that none of them has a league-wide personal policy conduct regarding transfers. The decision is left up to the individual schools.
It's hard to legislate morality even if it is absolutely the right thing to do.
In one sense, it's almost abhorrent that -- 15 years into the 21st century -- a conference would have to consider inserting such language into its bylaws. In another sense, if schools are actually valuing personal conduct over on-field ability then bravo that it's finally happening.
We should know by the end of the week as athletic directors and presidents consider McGarity's proposal here during the SEC's spring meetings.
The odds of passage don't seem high. Retiring SEC commissioner Mike Slive tapped the brakes on his conference instituting any kind of personal conduct policy.
"The appropriate place for dealing with students' behavior is on their campus ...," he said. "We've seen the NFL. Commissioner Goodell has had issues in regard to that? How do you stay consistent. We're not experts."
Then there is the SEC culture itself. The league has seemingly always valued competitive considerations before, well, anything else.
"We shouldn't have any rules in the SEC that the other big time conferences don't have. … I'm not for it,” Alabama coach Nick Saban said. "It gives us an excuse to protect ourselves from any criticism for giving guys opportunities."
Yes, Saban went there. Any mention of the proposal must be accompanied by the mention of Taylor. He's the former Georgia defensive tackle who was booted by Mark Richt last summer after a felony domestic violence arrest. Following a transfer to Alabama, Taylor was arrested a second time for domestic violence, this time in Tuscaloosa.
The accuser later recanted. By that time, Taylor had been kicked off Alabama, too.
Saban was widely criticized for taking Taylor. What kind of message did that send to women everywhere from arguably the most powerful football program on the planet? In a football sense, what did the most powerful coach of that most powerful program need getting with Taylor? The man doesn't so much recruit as he hand picks.
Answer No. 1: It sends a terrible message. Answer No. 2: Saban is no different than a lot of his peers. He's all about assembling the best team possible.
"Aren't we supposed to be a country where you get tried or you're guilty or innocent?" Saban asked. "As soon as a guy gets arrested who is an athlete, you try him in the media."
So is Georgia taking the moral high ground or taking a shot at Nick? If domestic assault is involved, should it matter? Alabama had a player it could use to help beat Georgia (Oct. 3 this year in Athens, if you're keeping track). Alabama had a player (Georgia didn't have) that could help it win the SEC.
Yeah, all the sudden stuff is gettin' real. Already, Saban and others are feeling disadvantaged because of SEC rules that potentially could have kept grad transfer Everett Golson from coming to the league.
Without saying it out loud, Georgia is tired of having dismissed players come back to bite the Bulldogs. Quarterback Zach Mettenberger eventually transferred to LSU . Signal caller Nick Marshall helped lead Auburn to the BCS title game. Each attended junior colleges before finding their way back to the SEC.
"I support [McGarity's proposal]," Richt said. "I think that makes sense."
So does Arkansas' Bret Bielema. He has an army of analysts doing deep social media background checks on recruits ... for starters.
"When one school gets in trouble, we all get in trouble," Bielema said. "One thing I have been emphatic to [AD Jeff Long] about is that systematically our conference [be] held to a higher level.
"A lot of people in this conference say one thing and do another."
That's why Bobby Petrino has able to sign Devonte Fields at Louisville . The former Big 12 Defensive Player of the Year had been charged with a misdemeanor assault involving a former girlfriend.
In each case, it was up to the individual school. Ironically, if the SEC changed now, it would be rogue -- the only conference with a blanket conduct policy regarding transfers.
"These things need to be global," Saban said. "Otherwise we're going to become a farm system for all the other leagues."
Sorry, but these coaches, athletic directors and schools are sometimes a poor judge of character. They don't necessarily hold these kids to a higher standard, not when winning is at stake. Ask yourself: Would you be allowed back at work after a DWI? How would your boss view it if you knocked over a liquor store?
Coaches are recruiting 17 year olds deemed talented enough to play in front of 90,000 fans. But they get a break for boosting a car?
To a large portion of the population, it doesn't matter if Fields keeps his nose clean and becomes an All-American. It's the message it sends to any woman who walks through the turnstiles to watch him play.
Mixon may lead the Big 12 in rushing but is it too much to conclude he can't finish his career at Oklahoma? Sometimes the answers aren't easy. OU was questioned for taking Dorial Green-Beckham but absolutely did the right thing in the face of the racial blasts by those SAE fraternity members .
Sure, athletics can help the wayward. A scholarship can stabilize a life veered off track. But should it, always? And where should the line be drawn?
The SEC is about to find out.
Biggest Stories
NCAA Football
11:03 pm
10:24 pm
9:25 pm
1
3
Get Yours Now
 

