Reuters
Posted:
By Lawrence Hurley
WASHINGTON, April 6 (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court on  Monday declined to review the legality of new Republican-backed  voting restrictions in North Carolina that were part of a law  opponents argued was aimed at making it harder for voters who  tend to favor Democrats to cast ballots.
The court rejected the state's appeal of an October decision  by the Richmond, Virginia-based 4th U.S. Circuit Court of  Appeals that found that parts of the 2013 law should be  provisionally blocked while litigation continues.
The law put in place a requirement that voters show certain  forms of photo identification in order to cast a ballot as well  as other provisions. At issue in the current case are the  sections of the law that barred same-day voter registration and  provisional voting for voters casting ballots outside their  normal precincts.
The Supreme Court's action has little immediate impact as a  full trial on the legality of the law is scheduled for this  summer, with a final ruling likely ahead of the 2016  presidential election.
The appeals court had said same-day registration and  provisional voting for those casting ballots outside their  normal precincts, both barred by the law, should be allowed.
In October, the Supreme Court allowed the restrictions to go  into effect until the justices had time to consider the state's  appeal in full, with two of the nine justices dissenting.
The law was passed by the state's Republican-led legislature  in 2013.
Republicans argue that voter ID and other requirements are  needed to prevent voter fraud. Democrats say the law and similar  measures passed by other Republican-governed states are intended  to make it harder for minorities, young people and other groups  that tend to vote for Democrats to vote.
The case is North Carolina v. League of Women Voters, U.S.  Supreme Court, No. 14-780.     (Reporting by Lawrence Hurley)
Also on HuffPost:


Pictured on Friday, April 23, 2010. (Photo by John Moore/Getty Images)
Pictured on Thursday, Jan. 5, 2006. (Photo by David Paul Morris/Getty Images)
Pictured on Thursday, Oct. 26, 2006. (Photo by Doug Pensinger/Getty Images)
Pictured on Tuesday, November 13, 2007. (Photo by Jessica McGowan/Getty Images)
Pictured on Monday, Jan. 14, 2008. (Ned Dishman/NBAE via Getty Images)
Pictured on Saturday, Feb. 4, 2012. (Photo by Jeff Gross/Getty Images)
Pictured on Wednesday, Aug. 10, 2011. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Pictured on Wednesday, April 12, 2006. (AP Photo/James Crisp)
(Photo by Patrick Smith/Getty Images)
Pictured on Tuesday, Jan. 2, 2007. (Photo by Darren McCollester/Getty Images)
Pictured on Wednesday, April 13, 2011. (Photo by Bill Pugliano/Getty Images)
Pictured on Friday, July 1, 2011. (Photo by Hannah Foslien/Getty Images)
Pictured on Friday, Dec. 28, 2001. (Todd Warshaw//Pool/Getty Images
Pictured on Friday, Aug. 13, 2004. (Photo by Chris Hondros/Getty Images)
Pictured on Sunday, March 16, 2008. (Photo by Daniel Barry/Getty Images)
Pictured on Tuesday, March 8, 2011. (Photo by Mike Munden/Getty Images)
Pictured on Monday, Jan. 21, 2008. (Photo by Chris Hondros/Getty Images)
Pictured on Wednesday, May 2, 2007. (Photo by Chris Jackson/Getty Images)
Pictured on Tuesday, March 6, 2001. (Photo by Michael Smith/Newsmakers)
 Share
 Tweet
More:
Conversations
Options
Politics
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Politics
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Politics
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

