House’s proposed sales tax cut a Texas first
1/1
Jay Janner/Austin American-Statesman
Dennis Bonnen — second from right, with fellow House members (from left) Matt Krause, Ron Simmons and Dwayne Bohac — announced his plan for a sales tax cut Wednesday.
Updated:
09 April 2015 12:06 AM
AUSTIN — The Legislature’s tax-cut wars intensified Wednesday, as House GOP leaders unveiled a bigger tax-relief package than the Senate has passed.
Instead of trimming school property taxes, as senators prefer, the House wants to reduce the state’s 6.25 percent sales tax to just under 6 percent. It would be the first statewide sales tax cut in Texas history.
The average Texas family of four would save $172 a year from a new state sales tax rate of 5.95 percent, which would take effect Jan. 1, according to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dennis Bonnen, R-Angleton.
In most areas, local governments add 2 cents. Bonnen’s plan would take the combined sales tax rate — usually 8.25 percent — to 7.95 percent.
“This is tangible tax relief that will benefit families and businesses of all sizes whenever they buy something,” he said.
Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, though, soon ripped into the House’s plan for failing to lower Texas’ comparatively high property taxes and ignoring Gov. Greg Abbott’s insistence on reductions in property as well as business taxes. Both chambers would cut the state’s main business tax, though in different ways.
Patrick said Bonnen’s plan “is out of step with Texans, my office, the Senate and the governor.”
Sen. Jane Nelson, who heads the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee, also panned the House’s approach.
“I have never had a constituent tell me they want a cut in sales tax — ever,” Nelson said. “I’ve had lots of constituents come and complain about property taxes.”
Bonnen shot back: “If Lt. Gov. Patrick really wants to defend a smaller tax cut than what my plan provides, I’m happy to have that debate.”
The House’s approach would help all Texans, including businesses, who pay sales tax on items they buy, Bonnen argued, while renters and businesses would miss out on the property tax cuts focused on homeowners.
The debate shows that despite widespread agreement on slashing taxes and overflowing state coffers, GOP leaders will have to negotiate intensely to reach a deal. With conservative groups, business leaders and lobbyists weighing in, it could become a pitched battle that lasts until the final days of lawmakers’ session, which must end June 1.
In recent weeks, both GOP-controlled chambers have ratcheted up the price tags of their tax relief plans — as many educator groups and Democrats feared. They want lawmakers to spend more of the $19.4 billion that Republican budget writers such as Nelson have parked on the sidelines.
With the state so flush, the tax cuts won’t force reductions in spending — lawmakers can cut taxes and balance the budget even while boosting spending in areas such as education. But if oil prices stay low and state revenues suffer, lawmakers could face tough choices in future years.
The disagreement among Republicans over how to cut taxes was in full prospect nearly a year ago but is now delivering drama to what has so far been a low-key legislative session. With no consensus hammered out in advance of the session — Patrick was talking about a grand swap of consumption taxes for property taxes as late as September — both chambers have been on the hunt for backers who could sway things their way.
In February, Nelson and Patrick announced that a proposed constitutional amendment upping homestead exemptions also would prohibit taxing real estate sales. Democratic senators and House Republicans called it a bald attempt to enlist the powerful Texas Association of Realtors to support the Patrick-Nelson package. The critics noted there’s been no serious push to tax home sales in modern-day Texas.
Bonnen, who represents a heavily industrialized district in southeast Texas, countered with a “heavy metals” strategy.
He denied carrying water for powerful interests back home, but he delayed unveiling his plan until manufacturers, petrochemical firms and other big business groups repeatedly had slashed the Senate’s tax-cut package as advancing a dreaded “split roll” — in which businesses pay a bigger burden of local property taxes than homeowners.
The big business groups also complained that a bill by Sen. Charles Schwertner, R-Georgetown, would undo progress toward fairer taxation achieved in 2006. That year, the Legislature broadened the franchise or “margins tax” so it applied to more types of businesses as well as professional associations.
By exempting 61,000 of the 117,000 businesses currently paying the tax, the Senate was helping service industries and small employers — many of which don’t own expensive property. But the capital intensive industries, meanwhile, would still pay margins tax — and keep paying high property taxes, the business groups complained.
Bonnen stressed that the House’s margins tax cuts would benefit all categories of business. He also said a lower sales tax rate would be historic — and permanent.
Since Texas lawmakers first imposed a 2-cent sales tax in 1961, they never have cut the rate.
Bonnen scoffed at the Senate’s $2.15 billion homestead exemption sweetener. An even bigger school property tax cut passed nine years ago — initially worth a whopping $14 billion — but wasn’t felt by many homeowners, he noted.
“If our experience in recent years has taught us anything, it’s that property tax cuts are quickly swallowed by local rate hikes and rising appraisals,” Bonnen said. “Any property tax cut passed without major systemic reform is guaranteed to meet the same fate.”
Senators say they’ve worked to avoid that problem by tying the homestead exemption to the average value of a Texas home, so the exemption would rise as property becomes more valuable. The average homeowner would save an estimated $206 in the first year of the Senate plan.
Different tax cut recipes
The House’s GOP leaders unveiled their approach to cutting taxes Wednesday. It differs in approach and, at $4.87 billion over two years, is bigger than the $4.45 billion offered in a Senate-passed tax relief package. The details:
SENATE CUT (two-year cost)
HOUSE CUT (two-year cost)
Changes homestead exemption on school levies from fixed dollar amount — $15,000 — to 25 percent of the median home value ($2.154 billion)
Property
None
None
Sales
Cuts state rate to 5.95 percent from 6.25 percent ($2.31 billion)
Cuts rates by 15 percent; exempts 61,000 small- and medium-size businesses; either exempts or cuts rates by 42 percent for 11,000 EZ filers ($2.3 billion)
Business-
franchise
Cuts rates by 25 percent; gives EZ filers same breaks as Senate does ($2.56 billion)
SOURCES: Legislative Budget Board; Rep. Dennis Bonnen; Comptroller Glenn Hegar; House Ways and Means Committee staff; Dallas Morning News research
On Twitter:
Opinion
Comeback falls short
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

