 
By Alexander Bolton - 04/10/15 10:24 AM EDT
Utah Sen. Mike Lee (R) said Friday that his friend Rand Paul’s stances on foreign policy are likely his greatest weakness as a presidential candidate.
But Lee acknowledged that Paul’s wariness of military interventions and foreign aid could also win him votes among Republican primary voters fatigued after a decade of war in Iraq and Afghanistan.
“Some would say the Achilles heel for him would be on matters of foreign policy but others view that as his strength,” Lee told reporters at a breakfast sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor.
ADVERTISEMENT
“Rand’s biggest challenge will be to explain his foreign policy views,” he added, noting that Paul inherited many supporters from his father, Texas Rep. Ron Paul (R), who was well known for his opposition to U.S. foreign policy interventions and entanglements abroad.
Lee said Rand Paul faces the challenge of distinguishing his own views from those of his father, explaining the latter has “idiosyncratic views on foreign policy issues that make some people nervous.”
Lee said he quickly became friends with Paul after both won upset elections in the 2010 Tea-Party revolution, stunning establishment-backed favorites in GOP primaries.
He praised his colleague’s intellectual curiosity and tenacity, recalling the 13-hour filibuster he waged against John Brennan, whom President Obama’s nominated to head the Central Intelligence Agency in 2013.
Heading to one of their first votes as newly minted senators, he remembers Paul asking him about a technical constitutional issue related to the legislation on the floor.
“I was impressed he was willing to do the work to find it,” he said.
Lee said he considers Paul and Sens. Ted Cruz (Texas) and Marco Rubio (Fla.), two other Senate Republicans running for president, his closest friends and pledged not to make any endorsement ahead of the 2016 primary to avoid choosing among them.
Paul and Cruz have already formally announced their candidacies. Rubio is expected to do so Monday.
Lee weighed in on the strengths and weakness of each during Friday’s breakfast.
He praised Cruz’s willingness to fight for conservative principles and take on the GOP establishment when necessary but cautioned his colleague’s perceived fieriness may hurt him with some voters.
“I like his dedication to conservative principles and willingness to fight even when it’s hard,” he said. “Some of those same characteristics have been characterized by some as a weakness, as an Achilles heel for him,” he said.
Lee touted Rubio as one of the most outstanding communicators in the Republican Party
He called the Florida freshman, “one of the best natural athletes we have in political terms.”
But he predicted that Rubio’s support for comprehensive immigration reform legislation in 2013 could hurt his ability to connect with conservative primary voters.
“There are still some who are critical of him because of his involvement in Gang of Eight bill,” he said, referring to the bipartisan group of lawmakers, including Sens. Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.), who drafted the ambitious overhaul of immigration law.  
1 day
Obama: Daughter's asthma attack... “What I can relate to is the fear a parent has," the president said.
Admiral: Putin's military 'far... "They're messaging us that they're a global power," said Adm. William...
Mass. Dem: Pelosi should go "Nancy Pelosi will not lead us back into the majority," Rep. Stephen Lynch...
GOP’s Cotton: Bombing Iran nuke... "All we're asking," the senator says, is that Obama be as tough "as Bill...
Katie Pavlich: The deception of... OPINION | A closer look suggests department lying to judges is a habit,...
Michelle Obama misses driving with... It's been “seven or eight years” since the first lady’s been behind the...
White House mocks Netanyahu on... White House uses cartoon bomb to tout nuclear deal.
Ben Carson: SC police shooting an... “It’s horrible to see an execution take place in the street like that,” he...
Vegan diet best for planet The meat industry is furious with a panel that helps formulate dietary...
Senate Dems waver on Iran bill The White House is trying to bottle up bipartisan legislation.
Budowsky: A warning to Hillary... OPINON | American voters don’t want to be sold a “new Hillary.”
Pelosi: Obama’s last line of... The White House’s nuclear deal with Iran could hinge on Nancy Pelosi.
Video captures police killing of... Michael T. Slager has been charged with murder in the killing of 50-year-...
Obama concerned by ‘less-than-... Obama stops himself before going further off script.
Savannah Guthrie fight casts... The incident put the 2016 hopeful's attitude toward female reporters in...
Why Obama is so sad Obama said at a prayer breakfast he tears up thinking about his daughters...
Features
Email Alerts *

