Published:
May 27, 2015 12:00AM
Gov. John Kasich wants to boost the state tax on cigarettes by a dollar, which would bring it to $2.25 per pack, a significant increase, but the first hike in the tax in a decade.
Kasich's bid for a tax increase is part of his plan to enhance state revenue to offset a proposed $5.7 billion cut in the state income tax that is part of his proposed budget.
House Republicans want to scale back the income tax cut to $1.2 billion. And they want no part of hiking the cigarette tax.
The Ohio Senate ought to reverse that call. Not only would hiking the cigarette tax raise revenues, it also would save lives.
Ohio is said to have the eighth-highest smoking rate in the nation. This year, smoking will lead to the deaths of more than 20,000 Ohioans; most will lose their lives to lung cancer.
An added worry: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently reported that the number of high-school and middle-school students using e-cigarettes -- also known as vaping -- has tripled in the past year. That's likely to fuel more smoking.
Kasich's attempts to boost the cigarette tax -- he would levy taxes on e-cigarettes, too -- and increase the state's severance tax on oil and gas production have been met with a cold shoulder from Republicans in the House who apparently see no conflict in cutting taxes while invoking their no-new-taxes mantra. Where is the money to come from if they cut the income tax -- whether it's a $5 billion cut or a smaller $1 billion cut?
The revenue enhancements Kasich is proposing are not regressive, as a sales tax increase would be. They are targeted increases. The severance tax boost would be funded by an industry that is reaping the benefits of exploiting finite natural resources and is currently paying one of the lowest taxes in the nation for doing so. The cigarette tax increase would be paid for by smokers; if you don't smoke, your taxes won't be going up. We live in a society that subsidizes a known carcinogen -- tobacco -- while underwriting much of the cost of health care for those who develop cancer because they choose to smoke.
Raising the tax on cigarettes and e-cigarettes would be a move in the public interest: It would discourage smoking by making it more costly. It would generate funds that, at least in part, could be earmarked for smoking cessation programs. And it would raise additional revenue to offset the income tax cut.
We hope the Senate takes another look at raising the cigarette tax. It's a good idea that would save lives. Public health ought to trump "no new taxes."
Want to leave your comments?

