As the Maryland General Assembly enters its final week, differences over the state budget remain unresolved.
Monday was supposed to be the deadline for the General Assembly to pass the budget, according to state law. But negotiations between the Senate and House of Delegates have routinely pushed a final vote on the spending plan to the last day or two of the legislature’s 90-day session.
And this year is no different.
Gov. Larry Hogan (R) is expected to issue a proclamation Monday night reminding lawmakers that they have until April 13, the last day of the session, to pass the budget. An extended session would be called if a final resolution on the spending plan is not enacted.
While Hogan’s action will be routine, it would be rare for the legislature to warrant an extended session or special session to deal with the budget. It has happened only once in the past two decades.
Negotiations broke down in 2012 between former governor Martin O’Malley (D) and the Democrat-controlled General Assembly. They ended the regular legislative session with a “doomsday” budget that included no compromise on a tax-increase proposal to pay for the spending plan.
O’Malley called a special session and the General Assembly approved a tax package and other high-profile bills.
This year, the Senate and House of Delegates each made changes to Hogan’s $40.7 billion budget. There are minor differences between the version of the budget passed by the Senate and the one passed by the House.
A committee made up of senators and delegates is scheduled to meet Tuesday to continue hammering out their minor differences and to address a supplemental proposal that Hogan submitted last week.
The supplemental budget is an adjustment to an original spending plan that comes after the budget has been introduced to the General Assembly. Under Maryland law, the legislature cannot add money to the budget, but it can make reductions.
Hogan did not include funding for the state’s most expensive school systems or a pay increase for state workers in the proposal.
The move surprised many Democrats, who were expecting the funds in the supplemental. Hogan submitted a $45 million plan that pays for many tax-relief initiatives that the General Assembly has been slow to act on, rejected or watered down.
Ovetta Wiggins writes about K-12 education.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

