By ALAN FRAM Associated Press6:14 a.m.April 11, 2015
⎙
-
FILE - In this May 5, 2014, file photo, the Capitol building is seen through the columns on the steps of the Supreme Court in Washington. Racing the calendar, Senate leaders are pushing toward final congressional approval of a bipartisan compromise reshaping how Medicare pays physicians as Congress returns from a two-week spring recess ensnarled over domestic and foreign policy issues.  (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster, File) The Associated Press
Share Photo
✉


Share Photo
✉
FILE - In this Jan,. 28, 2015 file photo, Attorney General nominee Loretta Lynch arrives on Capitol Hill in Washington to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on her nomination. Racing the calendar, Senate leaders are pushing toward final congressional approval of a bipartisan compromise reshaping how Medicare pays physicians as Congress returns from a two-week spring recess ensnarled over domestic and foreign policy issues. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh, File)
FILE - In this March 25, 2015 file photo, Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nev., left, talks with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, of Ky. on Capitol Hill in Washington. Racing the calendar, Senate leaders are pushing toward final congressional approval of a bipartisan compromise reshaping how Medicare pays physicians as Congress returns from a two-week spring recess ensnarled over domestic and foreign policy issues. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais, Fil)The Associated Press
Share Photo
✉
FILE - In this March 25, 2015 file photo, Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nev., left, talks with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, of Ky. on Capitol Hill in Washington. Racing the calendar, Senate leaders are pushing toward final congressional approval of a bipartisan compromise reshaping how Medicare pays physicians as Congress returns from a two-week spring recess ensnarled over domestic and foreign policy issues. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais, Fil)
WASHINGTON (AP) — Racing the calendar, Senate leaders are pushing toward congressional approval of a bipartisan compromise that reshapes how Medicare pays physicians as lawmakers return from a spring break tangled up in domestic and foreign policy disputes.
Republican and Democratic senators are trying to influence an emerging nuclear deal with Iran, and there's a fight over abortion. Also, President Barack Obama is awaiting Senate action on his long-delayed nomination of federal prosecutor Loretta Lynch to become attorney general.
For Senate Democrats, the two-week break proved tumultuous.
Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., announced he will not run for re-election in 2016. Reid anointed Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., to succeed him, creating uncertainty over the rest of their leadership posts.
New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez was indicted on federal corruption charges and relinquished his job as top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, just as it plays a pivotal role on Iran.
The Medicare doctors' legislation presents Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., with his most pressing problem. The $214 billion package would permanently retool how Medicare reimburses physicians and it also would provide money for children's health, community health centers, low-income patients and rural hospitals.
The normally divided House rallied behind the measure last month with a 392-37 vote. Eager to signal that Republicans now running the Senate can do so effectively, McConnell said the bill would be handled "very quickly" when lawmakers return and he envisioned passage "by a very large majority."
The measure would block a 21 percent cut in physicians' Medicare reimbursements that technically took effect April 1. By law, the federal agency that writes those checks can't do so until 14 days after it receives a claim, and it plans to start making payments at the lower rate on Wednesday. The federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services makes roughly 4 million Medicare payments to doctors daily.
The Senate returns to work Monday, which gives leaders two days to finish the bill or risk fielding complaints from physicians and seniors. Doctors say payment cuts make them less likely to treat patients of Medicare, which helps the elderly pay medical bills.
McConnell's biggest problem is that senators from both parties are clamoring to amend the legislation, which was a rare compromise between House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, and House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of California.
Congressional aides and lobbyists say conservatives, including GOP Sens. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, Ben Sasse of Nebraska, and Mike Lee of Utah, want to require savings so the measure will not add a projected $141 billion to federal deficits over the coming decade.
Democrats, including Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, want to expand the bill's two years of extra money for the Children's Health Insurance Program to four years and offer other amendments, though Wyden said Thursday he would support the measure without changes.
Leaders were hoping to avoid votes on any amendments, and the chances that any would pass seemed small. Any changes would return the measure to the House, where its fate would be uncertain.
Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to the U-T.
QUICK JYLLION SEARCHES:

