Asher Abid Khan who lived in Sydney arrested after family’s trick stopped him joining Islamic State
by:
Sky News
News
Tricked by his family that his mjum was dying ... Asher Abid Khan, who had been living in Sydney, has been arrested for terrorism offences. Picture: Facebook Source: Facebook
A MAN, who had been living with relatives in Australia, has been arrested for terrorism offences after his own family tricked him to stop joining the Islamic State.
Asher Abid Khan, 20, has been arrested in Spring , Texas , for conspiring to provide material support to terrorist movement ISIS , the FBI said in a statement .
Faces up to 15 years in jail ... Asher Abid Khan, 20, allegedly said that he wanted to die a martyr. Picture: Facebook Source: Facebook
Flew from Sydney to Turkey with the aim of fighting in Syria ... Asher Abid Khan, 20, has arrested for conspiring to provide material support to terrorists Islamic State. Picture: Facebook Source: Facebook
The criminal complaint alleges Khan and a friend from Spring made a plan to travel to Turkey and then on to Syria for the purpose of joining and waging jihad on behalf of the Islamic State.
Khan had allegedly told a 24-year-old Turkish-based foreign terrorist fighter facilitator that, “I wana join ISIS can you help?” He told another person “I wana die as a Shaheed (martyr)”, according to the allegations.
The unidentified ISIS recruiter travels frequently between Turkey and Syria, and uses at least four Facebook accounts, according to the FBI. One of the accounts was used to communicate with Khan and his friend.
Khan told the ISIS recruiter on Facebook in January 2014 that he moved to Australia in 2013 because he was tired of living in the west. He said he was “sad,” because he lives in Australia “comfortably while (his) brothers are in so much hardship,” in the Middle East.
“All I know is that I want to fight fisabillah (for the sake of Allah). Who knows how long this fitna (a division between brothers that leads to fighting) will last? Will I miss my chance? I don’t want to fight for war booty or for nationalism. I want to just rise the laws of Allah and be a shaheed in his cause. I don’t want to be fighting with the wrong group, and so far all I see is ISIS fighting for Khilafah (the Muslim state),” he said in a Facebook message,
Widespread killing and raping ... Militants of the Islamic State group hold up their weapons and wave its flags on their vehicles in a convoy on a road leading to Iraq, while riding in Raqqa city in Syria. Picture: Militant website via AP Source: AP
Khan’s friend allegedly made it to Syria and IS with the assistance of Khan and the foreign terrorist fighter facilitator. Khan had been living in Sydney with a relative and made it to Istanbul, Turkey, on a Malaysia Airlines flight on February 24 2014, where he was to meet up with his friend who had flown from George Bush International Airport, Houston, to London’s Heathrow Airport on February 23, and then onto Istanbul, Turkey, in their quest to join ISIS, according to the complaint.
However, Khan’s family sent him false information about his mother’s help, convincing him through that deception to return to Texas. He flew out of Istanbul for the US the next day.
According to the criminal complaint filed by an FBI agent , his family told Khan that his mother had been taken to hospital. Khan complained in a Facebook message that he rushed back home because he was told his mother was in the hospital’s intensive care unit.
The FBI learned of Khan and the alleged interest in ISIS in October 2014, after agents searched his friend Abdullah Ali’s Facebook account. The friend, identified in court papers only as S.R.G., allegedly posted pictures of himself with military-style weapons.
Loved his family more than committing terrorist atrocities ... Asher Abid Khan with his mum at his graduation day at Klein Oak High School, Spring, Texas. Picture: Facebook Source: Facebook
He was arrested without incident by federal authorities on Tuesday, more than a year after his return from Turkey.
If convicted, Khan faces up to 15 years in federal prison. A conviction also carries a possible $250,000 fine.
Australia's Jihadis 25:16
Oovvuu
Comments Form
Email Address *
Location (optional)
Post Options
Email me if my comment is published
News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
Submit
This is also known as Online Behavioural Advertising.

