Colin Kaepernick, who has nearly 755,000 Twitter followers and 1.3 million followers on Instagram, deleted and apologized Tuesday for a post that trivialized deadly floods in the Houston area.
Play1:43
5hJeremy Fowler
The Patriots-Steelers matchup in Week 1 is better off with Tom Brady involved, Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger said at Tuesday's session of organized team activities.
Play2:06
Former New Orleans Saints receiver Joe Horn dislikes hugs between draft selections and NFL commissioner Roger Goodell, who he likens to "the devil."
Play2:37
Seahawks coach Pete Carroll would not speak directly about the contract negotiations with quarterback Russell Wilson, but Carroll did say Tuesday he and Wilson have had good conversations.
Ed Szczepanski/USA TODAY Sports
23m
The California Highway Patrol has released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of NFL defensive end Ray McDonald on suspicion of child endangerment and domestic viole
Brad Barr/USA TODAY Sports
Speaking to reporters for the first time since draft-day trade speculation, Philip Rivers said he wants to stay with the Chargers long term, because "we haven't accomplished the ultimate goal."
AP Photo/Evan Vucci
Robert Griffin III has been returned to the starting quarterback role with the Redskins and says affecting change will come with a change in mentality, which he thinks has already begun.
Ken Blaze/USA TODAY Sports
4hPat McManamon
Josh McCown and Johnny Manziel are learning a new system with a new coordinator and new receivers, and it showed on the first day of Browns OTAs.
Harry How/Getty Images
Chargers safety Eric Weddle skipped the beginning of OTAs on Tuesday as he remains unhappy with his contract status, but coach Mike McCoy said the team isn't "waiting for anybody."
Thearon W. Henderson/Getty Images
12hJamison Hensley
On his brother's death bed, DeAndre Carter vowed to his brother that, no matter what, he was going to reach the NFL for both of them.
Play0:56
5hJeffri Chadiha
The pass-happy CFL could be just the place for ex-Rams draft pick Michael Sam to show NFL teams how good he can be at rushing the quarterback, Jeffri Chadiha writes.
2 Related
8h
Chicago won't take a cap hit for cutting Ray McDonald, but it will bear some responsibility. A fine, albeit not a substantial one, is on the horizon.
2 Related
Despite rumors that he might not show up for offseason workouts, Steelers receiver Antonio Brown joined his teammates Tuesday, saying he was "ready to play football."
Play1:48
2dJohn Clayton
On issues from Deflategate to Los Angeles relocation, NFL owners are showing how unity keeps them powerful, John Clayton writes. Plus: blocking extra points, the NFLPA's angle and more.
Charles LeClaire/USA TODAY Sports
13hJeremy Fowler
Coming off a career statistical season and with his supporting cast, Ben Roethlisberger has a chance to play at the level of his new contract.
Play1:58
The photo of J.J. Watt's bruise is nasty, but imagine playing with torn knee ligaments or a tooth stuck in your arm. Jeffri Chadiha recounts some memorable moments of athletes ignoring injuries.
1 Related
Louis Hoglund and the Pelican Rapids Press
2dRobert Demovsky
Moss met fan when she was 8 and he was a rookie with the Vikings, and the former star has kept in touch while she battled leukemia and a brain tumor.
Play4:00
1dPaul Lukas
ESPN athletics aesthetics expert Paul Lukas reveals his comprehensive updated hierarchy of pro football uniforms for the 2015 season, from best to worst (sorry, Jaguars).
3 Related
Kaepernick apologizes for insensitive flooding post
ESPN 49ers reporter Paul Gutierrez reports the latest on Colin Kaepernick, who apologized for a social media post that trivialized the deadly floods in the Houston area, much of Texas and Oklahoma.
Paul Gutierrez, ESPN Staff Writer
Member of Pro Football Writers Association
Previously worked at Los Angeles Times, Las Vegas Review-Journal and Sports Illustrated
Colin Kaepernick , who has nearly 1.3 million followers on Instagram and 755,000 Twitter followers, deleted and then apologized Tuesday for a social media post that trivialized the deadly floods in the Houston area, much of Texas and Oklahoma.
The San Francisco 49ers quarterback, who uses the hashtag #7stormsComing to purportedly warn opponents and observers alike of his improved game, initially sent an Instagram post that made light of the storms and floodwaters causing havoc and loss of life.
ESPN.com
Kaepernick did delete the post shortly thereafter, and issued an initial apology.
No disrespect intended! Prayers up!
Two hours later, Kaepernick returned to issue a stronger apology and a less trivial response about the situation in Houston.
Several fatalities have been reported and more than a dozen people are still missing after weekend storms  damaged hundreds of homes, stranded motorists and kept several fans inside Toyota Center after the Rockets' Game 4 win in the Western Conference finals on Monday.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
0 Shares

