Connecting decision                             makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and                             accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the                             world.
Apr 10, 2015 4:58 PM EDT
The widow of the Republican icon believes it's time for a female president—and her son, Ron Reagan, maintains that Barbara and Laura Bush badgered Hillary to run.
Nancy Reagan is the subject of the second part of an upcoming History Channel series called “First Ladies In Their Own Words.” Ron Reagan, the former first lady’s son, is the host of the show, created in conjunction with Pulitzer Prize-winning presidential historian Doris Kearns Goodwin. In a preview clip shown at a press conference last week, Nancy Reagan told her son in an interview, quoted in the Drudge Report:
The time for a woman to serve as our President has come–really, now is the time–and I think the idea of having a former First Lady as the leader of the free world is really quite a marvelous notion. I want Hillary to win. Even though I admire two of the current potential Republican nominees, I have no interest in seeing either of them lead this country.
For the GOP, this is slightly awkward. Since Ronald Reagan's presidency, and especially since his death, the Gipper's legacy has been worshipfully celebrated, often claimed, by Republican candidates. Senator Rand Paul has called himself "a great believer in Ronald Reagan." Sen. Lindsey Graham once, applaudingly, called Senator Marco Rubio “ the son of Ronald Reagan  when it comes to national security.”
"Hillary had no interest in running until both Laura and Barbara Bush cornered her at their get-together in May 2013 and talked her into at least thinking about it!"
Ron Reagan, Jr.
On February 6, which would have been Reagan's 104th birthday, many Republican politicians seemed entrants in an unannounced Twitter competition over who could love Reagan best. Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, whose father was Reagan's vice president, spoke of honoring his legacy. Carly Fiorina  wrote , “'There are no great limits to growth because there are no limits to human intelligence, imagination and wonder.' Happy Birthday Pres Reagan.” Rick Perry linked to a video of an event he had headlined at the Reagan Foundation. Former New York Governor George Pataki  put up a quotation ("Man is not free unless government is limited"). Ohio Governor. John Kasich  wrote , “Pres. Reagan showed us that faith can guide us, make us stronger, and move us fwd.”
Governor Scott Walker arguably beat them all in shows of devotion, back in 1993 , when he married his wife on Reagan's birthday.
Seen in this light, this endorsement of Hillary Clinton, by Reagan's widow, comes as a surprise. Mrs. Reagan has seldom spoken on politics. Two years ago, her daughter, Patti Davis, said that her mother  “is not comfortable going out in the public eye and getting in the firing line of anything,” but that she supports gay marriage. (Davis had recently said that her father  would have supported same-sex marriage, too.)
Photographer: John Mottern/AFP/Getty Images
Hillary Clinton, flanked by former First Ladies Lady Bird Johnson, Barbara Bush, Betty Ford, and Nancy Reagan in 1994.
“First Ladies In Their Own Words” is a series conceived by Ron Reagan, with Doris Kearns Goodwin, the Pulitzer-prize winning presidential historian. It focuses on issues that some would call feminist—Women’s Rights, Healthcare, Education and LGBT Rights—and how realities have changed over the past four decades. 
Ron Reagan said that he sees his mother’s endorsement of Hillary Clinton as evidence of the public’s lack of knowledge about Mrs. Reagan. 
“She wants people to know that the First Ladies are tight,” said Reagan fils. “They get together once a year to support each other. In fact, Hillary had no interest in running until both Laura and Barbara Bush cornered her at their get-together in May 2013 and talked her into at least thinking about it! So, in a sense, if Mrs. Clinton does run and win, you can blame the Bush family.”
Photograph: David Hume Kennerly/Getty Images
) Former first ladies Rosalynn Carter, Barbara Bush, Betty Ford, Nancy Reagan and Hillary Clinton attend the 20th anniversary celebration of the Betty Ford Center January 17, 2003 in Indian Wells, California.
Please upgrade your Browser
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:

