Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
State lawmakers consider Uber, Lyft regulations
Texas lawmakers met Thursday to decide whether to regulate transportation networking companies (TNCs) like Uber and Lyft at the state level or leave that to individual cities.
Post to Facebook
State lawmakers consider Uber, Lyft regulations Texas lawmakers met Thursday to decide whether to regulate transportation networking companies (TNCs) like Uber and Lyft at the state level or leave that to individual cities. Check out this story on KVUE.com: http://kvue.tv/1yhlJIg
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
State lawmakers consider Uber, Lyft regulations
Amber Downing, KVUE 6:53 p.m. CDT April 9, 2015
AUSTIN -- Texas lawmakers met Thursday to decide whether to regulate transportation networking companies (TNCs) like Uber and Lyft at the state level or leave that to individual cities.
In the ongoing fight to reduce traffic and offer consumers more options, companies like Uber and Lyft have gained momentum over the past couple of years. In the fall of 2014, Austin created an ordinance requiring background checks and city auditing for Uber and Lyft drivers. Other cities in Texas have also passed similar ordinances. State Rep. Chris Paddie (R-Marshall) is pushing to make regulations statewide by proposing House Bill 2440, which would regulate TNCs at a statewide level.
Texas lawmakers met Thursday to decide whether to regulate transportation networking companies (TNCs) like Uber and Lyft at the state level or leave that to individual cities.
"Our goal is to have a statewide framework that allows certainty in the market that encourages innovation," Paddie said. "Cities have a lot of things on their plates right now and in some cases, I think folks would welcome the opportunity to say, 'OK, state, you handle this, we'll get back to fixing potholes."
Some Austin City Council members oppose the bill.
"The state regulations would supersede ours and I really believe that it's important that we, who know the community best, and the needs and concerns of our constituents, have the ability to regulate," said Austin Mayor Pro-Tem Kathie Tovo.
State representatives on the House Transportation Committee raised concerns about background checks for drivers, pointing out Uber drivers aren't required to be fingerprinted or go through a federal background check.
After riding with Uber three times, Uber user Nosse Ovienmhada has two requirements for drivers: Affordability and safety.
"I felt safe with, let's just say, two out of three (drivers)," Ovienmheda said. "That is something that does scare me, like, I want to know that this person has been checked up on and is approved by the state."
Uber performs their own background checks, which go back seven years rather than a person's entire history, like a federal background check.
"I'm not really worried, because I don't feel like they would mess with me," said Uber user Lucas Quatrize.
The House Transportation Committee plans to make some adjustments to the bill over the next week and vote on it next Thursday.
More Stories

