27 May 2015
From the section Asia
Afghan forces were able to secure the area around the hotel early on Wednesday morning
Four gunmen have been killed after trying to storm a guesthouse in a diplomatic area of the Afghan capital, Kabul, police say.
The attack resulted in an overnight gun battle in the Wazir Akbar Khan district, home to several embassies and official buildings.
The Taliban says it launched the attack. It lasted at least six hours.
The assailants were armed with a rocket propelled grenade launcher and other weapons, the interior ministry said.
No civilian or military casualties were reported.
"Four attackers who had one RPG launcher, three AK-47s and one grenade launcher were killed in Wazir Akbar Khan," deputy interior minister Mohammad Ayoub Salangi said on Twitter.
The four gunmen were killed before reaching their target, Kabul police Abdul Rahman Rahimi said.
As the battle progressed, police said they had surrounded the attackers
Afghanistan's interior ministry told the BBC that the target was the former Heetal guesthouse, that was attacked by the Taliban in December 2009 and is now officially known as the Rabbani Guesthouse.
It is popular with foreigners and is owned by the Rabbani family, including Afghanistan's current Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani, and its former president, Burhanuddin Rabbani.
Earlier, Kabul police spokesman Ebadullah Karimi said the attackers had taken position among the trees behind the guesthouse.
The hotel manager told AFP news agency that all guests were in safe rooms and no-one was hurt.
"Heetal is very well fortified. After one or two initial explosions, our guards started firing on attackers who were unable to get inside," he said.
Correspondents say that the attackers appear to have tried to enter the hotel by firing a rocket propelled grenade at its heavy steel front gate.
Security forces stood guard outside the guesthouse after the attack
Part of the gate was destroyed, but it was not damaged enough for the militants to get through.
The siege dragged on because police waited until daylight to identify and move in on their targets, officials said.
Security forces blocked roads and took up positions on rooftops, parking armoured personnel vehicles in the streets near the guesthouse.
The stand-off ended with a dawn round of sustained gunfire and big explosions that sent clouds of black smoke into the sky.
The attack began shortly before 23:00 (18:30 GMT). Police were later seen smashing street lights to cover their movements in the dark, the Associated Press reported.
Police were said to have smashed street lights to cover their movements
The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder, in Kabul, said he had heard " sustained explosions, small arms fire and also the sound of grenades ".
Reports by witnesses on social media said the fighting was close to the Tajik embassy and Street 15 in the Wazir Akbar Khan district.
While the area is popular with foreign workers and also houses government employees, it has been subject to several high-profile attacks in recent years, most notably in the Taverna du Liban restaurant last year .
In recent weeks, a new wave of attacks by the Taliban has targeted foreigners in Kabul.
Two weeks ago, 14 people were killed as they waited to attend a concert in a guesthouse in Kabul.
With the Taliban's traditional summer offensive under way, the UN says the number of civilians killed and injured across Afghanistan stands at nearly 3,000 over the first four months of the year, up 16% on the same period last year.
Are you in Kabul? Have you been affected by recent events? You can email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk .
If you would be happy to speak further to a BBC journalist, please include a contact telephone number when emailing us your details.
Or comment here:
Town & Country
Comments (Required field)
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.


Published May 27, 2015
May 27, 2015: An Afghan security officer takes a position at a house near an ongoing attack on a guesthouse in Kabul. (AP Photo/Allauddin Khan)
KABUL, Afghanistan –  An all-night siege in an upscale neighborhood of Afghanistan's capital ended in the early hours of Wednesday morning with the deaths of four heavily armed Taliban attackers, though no civilians or security personnel were injured or killed, an Afghan official said.
Deputy Interior Minister Mohammad Ayub Salangi said that weapons had been seized, including a rocket-propelled grenade launcher, three automatic rifles and a hand grenade.
Using his official Twitter account, Salangi said there were "no civilian or military casualties."
Kabul's police chief Gen. Abdul Rahman Rahimi, speaking to reporters outside the guesthouse that was the target of the six-hour assault, said: "Before reaching their target all four attackers were killed."
The siege ended after 5 a.m. in a sustained barrage of automatic weapons fire and a series of huge explosions that resounded across the Wazir Akbar Khan district of downtown Kabul, home to many embassies and foreign firms.
The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack in tweets on a recognized Twitter account. They referred to the target as "belonging to the occupiers," reiterating the insurgents' message that foreign installations are specific targets in the Afghan capital.
The attack came amid intensified fighting across many parts of Afghanistan since the insurgents launched their annual warm weather offensive a month ago.  A Taliban attack on a guesthouse in another part of the capital earlier this month left 14 people dead, including nine foreigners.
The United Nations already has documented a record high number of civilian casualties -- 974 killed and 1,963 injured -- in the first four months of 2015, a 16 percent increase over the same period last year.
The siege began late Tuesday, with heavy explosions accompanying sporadic automatic rifle fire, and was focused on the Rabbani Guesthouse, which is favored by foreigners as the area is in the heart of the diplomatic district and close to the airport.
The attackers apparently attempted to enter the hotel by firing a rocket propelled grenade at its heavy steel front gate. Part of the gate is burned, but it was not damaged enough to allow the militants entry. The hours of shooting seem to have marked a showdown as the militants sought cover and police waited for daylight to identify and move in on their targets.
Police and a paramilitary Crisis Response Unit surrounded the area, blocked roads, took up positions on rooftops and parked armored personnel vehicles in the streets around the guesthouse. Police officers smashed lights throughout the neighborhood to cover their movements.
For about five hours, gunfire and explosions were sporadic, before a lull lasting more than an hour ended with a dawn volley of sustained gunfire and huge explosions that sent clouds of black smoke into the sky. After an intense firefight, calm returned to the area.
The hotel has been attacked before. Formerly known as the Heetal Hotel, it was damaged in a December 2009 suicide car bomb attack near the home of former Afghan Vice President Ahmad Zia Massoud -- brother of legendary anti-Taliban fighter Ahmad Shah Massoud, who was killed in an al-Qaida suicide bombing two days before the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. That 2009 attack killed eight people and wounded nearly 40.
The hotel is owned by the Rabbani family, who include the late Burhanuddin Rabbani who served as president of Afghanistan from 1992 until 1996 and was assassinated in Kabul in 2011, and current Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani.
Afghan security forces have been struggling to fend off Taliban attacks since U.S. and NATO forces concluded their combat mission at the end of last year and the mission morphed into one of training and support. The new insurgent strategy appears to be aimed at forcing the government to spread its forces thinly across many regions of the country, to focus on security rather than developing the economy and creating jobs as it has promised to do.
Earlier on Tuesday, in Uruzgan province, officials said that a district has been under attack by militants for the past two weeks, with district chief Abdul Karim Karimi saying that since the fighting began 12 soldiers had been killed and dozens wounded.
On Monday, militants killed at least 26 police officers and soldiers in ambushes in southern Helmand province.
Advertisement

