27 May 2015
From the section Asia
Afghan forces were able to secure the area around the hotel early on Wednesday morning
Four gunmen have been killed after trying to storm a guesthouse in a diplomatic area of the Afghan capital, Kabul, police say.
The attack resulted in an overnight gun battle in the Wazir Akbar Khan district, home to several embassies and official buildings.
The Taliban says it launched the attack. It lasted at least six hours.
The assailants were armed with a rocket propelled grenade launcher and other weapons, the interior ministry said.
No civilian or military casualties were reported.
"Four attackers who had one RPG launcher, three AK-47s and one grenade launcher were killed in Wazir Akbar Khan," deputy interior minister Mohammad Ayoub Salangi said on Twitter.
The four gunmen were killed before reaching their target, Kabul police Abdul Rahman Rahimi said.
As the battle progressed, police said they had surrounded the attackers
Afghanistan's interior ministry told the BBC that the target was the former Heetal guesthouse, that was attacked by the Taliban in December 2009 and is now officially known as the Rabbani Guesthouse.
It is popular with foreigners and is owned by the Rabbani family, including Afghanistan's current Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani, and its former president, Burhanuddin Rabbani.
Earlier, Kabul police spokesman Ebadullah Karimi said the attackers had taken position among the trees behind the guesthouse.
The hotel manager told AFP news agency that all guests were in safe rooms and no-one was hurt.
"Heetal is very well fortified. After one or two initial explosions, our guards started firing on attackers who were unable to get inside," he said.
Correspondents say that the attackers appear to have tried to enter the hotel by firing a rocket propelled grenade at its heavy steel front gate.
Security forces stood guard outside the guesthouse after the attack
Part of the gate was destroyed, but it was not damaged enough for the militants to get through.
The siege dragged on because police waited until daylight to identify and move in on their targets, officials said.
Security forces blocked roads and took up positions on rooftops, parking armoured personnel vehicles in the streets near the guesthouse.
The stand-off ended with a dawn round of sustained gunfire and big explosions that sent clouds of black smoke into the sky.
The attack began shortly before 23:00 (18:30 GMT). Police were later seen smashing street lights to cover their movements in the dark, the Associated Press reported.
Police were said to have smashed street lights to cover their movements
The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder, in Kabul, said he had heard " sustained explosions, small arms fire and also the sound of grenades ".
Reports by witnesses on social media said the fighting was close to the Tajik embassy and Street 15 in the Wazir Akbar Khan district.
While the area is popular with foreign workers and also houses government employees, it has been subject to several high-profile attacks in recent years, most notably in the Taverna du Liban restaurant last year .
In recent weeks, a new wave of attacks by the Taliban has targeted foreigners in Kabul.
Two weeks ago, 14 people were killed as they waited to attend a concert in a guesthouse in Kabul.
With the Taliban's traditional summer offensive under way, the UN says the number of civilians killed and injured across Afghanistan stands at nearly 3,000 over the first four months of the year, up 16% on the same period last year.
Are you in Kabul? Have you been affected by recent events? You can email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk .
If you would be happy to speak further to a BBC journalist, please include a contact telephone number when emailing us your details.
Or comment here:
Town & Country
Comments (Required field)
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.


Your browser is out of date. It has known security flaws and may not display all features of this websites. Learn how to update your browser [Close]
×
  
  
  
By Mirwais Harooni and Jessica Donati
KABUL (Reuters) - Four Taliban insurgents armed with assault rifles and a grenade launcher stormed a guesthouse in the diplomatic quarter of the Afghan capital overnight and held out for hours until they were killed by government forces early on Wednesday, officials said.
No casualties other than the attackers were reported, Afghanistan's deputy interior minister General Ayoub Salangi said. Kabul police chief Abdul Rahman Rahimi said the guesthouse was owned by a prominent Afghan political family that includes Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani.
The Afghan Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack after it ended and said numerous "invaders" had been killed, although it often makes exaggerated claims about casualties in attacks against Afghan government and foreign targets.
The Islamist group, which has been waging an insurgency since it was toppled by U.S.-backed Afghan forces in 2001, considers the foreign presence in Afghanistan an invading force and the Afghan government a puppet regime.
The Afghan capital has been hit by a series of high-profile attacks on foreigners and government targets over the past two weeks, deepening concerns over whether Afghan security forces can cope after most foreign troops left at the end of 2014.
Salangi said at least one rocket-propelled grenade launcher and three AK-47 assault rifles were seized after the attack in the heavily guarded Wazir Akbar Khan district had ended.
More than a dozen blasts were heard by Reuters witnesses in the first hour of the attack, while bursts of gunfire and  explosions continued until a clearance operation was launched at day break more than five hours later.
Police chief Rahimi declined to identify the occupants of the guesthouse, which Afghan and Western security sources said is known to accommodate foreigners as well as Afghans.
Teams of elite Afghan security forces responded to the attack in an upscale part of the capital where many embassies and government buildings are located. Police vehicles set up roadblocks to stop vehicles from approaching the area.
The late Burhanuddin Rabbani served as president of Afghanistan in the 1990s. Salahuddin Rabbani is his son.
The recent escalation in high-profile Kabul attacks started two weeks ago, when the Taliban attacked the Park Palace hotel  and killed more than a dozen people. Most of the casualties were Afghan civilians, although an American, a British-Afghan national, four Indians, an Italian and a Kazakh were also among the dead.
NATO's 13-year combat mission officially ended in December and the small contingent that remains is mostly focused on training Afghan security forces.
Afghan civilians, however, are bearing the brunt of the bloody conflict that has escalated around the country as foreign troops have withdrawn.
An EU vehicle was bombed near Kabul's airport a few days after the Park Palace attack, killing a British security contractor and at least two Afghan civilians.
Last week, at least five Afghans were killed and dozens more wounded by a car bomb in the parking lot of the Afghan Ministry of Justice.
(Writing by Jessica Donati; Editing by Edmund Klamann and Paul Tait)

