27 May 2015
From the section Asia
Afghan forces were able to secure the area around the hotel early on Wednesday morning
Four gunmen have been killed after trying to storm a guesthouse in a diplomatic area of the Afghan capital, Kabul, police say.
The attack resulted in an overnight gun battle in the Wazir Akbar Khan district, home to several embassies and official buildings.
The Taliban says it launched the attack. It lasted at least six hours.
The assailants were armed with a rocket propelled grenade launcher and other weapons, the interior ministry said.
No civilian or military casualties were reported.
"Four attackers who had one RPG launcher, three AK-47s and one grenade launcher were killed in Wazir Akbar Khan," deputy interior minister Mohammad Ayoub Salangi said on Twitter.
The four gunmen were killed before reaching their target, Kabul police Abdul Rahman Rahimi said.
As the battle progressed, police said they had surrounded the attackers
Afghanistan's interior ministry told the BBC that the target was the former Heetal guesthouse, that was attacked by the Taliban in December 2009 and is now officially known as the Rabbani Guesthouse.
It is popular with foreigners and is owned by the Rabbani family, including Afghanistan's current Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani, and its former president, Burhanuddin Rabbani.
Earlier, Kabul police spokesman Ebadullah Karimi said the attackers had taken position among the trees behind the guesthouse.
The hotel manager told AFP news agency that all guests were in safe rooms and no-one was hurt.
"Heetal is very well fortified. After one or two initial explosions, our guards started firing on attackers who were unable to get inside," he said.
Correspondents say that the attackers appear to have tried to enter the hotel by firing a rocket propelled grenade at its heavy steel front gate.
Security forces stood guard outside the guesthouse after the attack
Part of the gate was destroyed, but it was not damaged enough for the militants to get through.
The siege dragged on because police waited until daylight to identify and move in on their targets, officials said.
Security forces blocked roads and took up positions on rooftops, parking armoured personnel vehicles in the streets near the guesthouse.
The stand-off ended with a dawn round of sustained gunfire and big explosions that sent clouds of black smoke into the sky.
The attack began shortly before 23:00 (18:30 GMT). Police were later seen smashing street lights to cover their movements in the dark, the Associated Press reported.
Police were said to have smashed street lights to cover their movements
The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder, in Kabul, said he had heard " sustained explosions, small arms fire and also the sound of grenades ".
Reports by witnesses on social media said the fighting was close to the Tajik embassy and Street 15 in the Wazir Akbar Khan district.
While the area is popular with foreign workers and also houses government employees, it has been subject to several high-profile attacks in recent years, most notably in the Taverna du Liban restaurant last year .
In recent weeks, a new wave of attacks by the Taliban has targeted foreigners in Kabul.
Two weeks ago, 14 people were killed as they waited to attend a concert in a guesthouse in Kabul.
With the Taliban's traditional summer offensive under way, the UN says the number of civilians killed and injured across Afghanistan stands at nearly 3,000 over the first four months of the year, up 16% on the same period last year.
Are you in Kabul? Have you been affected by recent events? You can email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk .
If you would be happy to speak further to a BBC journalist, please include a contact telephone number when emailing us your details.
Or comment here:
Town & Country
Comments (Required field)
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.


Updated: May 27, 2015 09:21 IST
Afghan security forces gather outside the gate of the Heetal Hotel in Kabul on May 27, 2015. All four attackers were killed after security forces waged an all-night battle with Taliban militants who tried to storm a guesthouse. (AFP Photo)
An hours-long gunbattle with insurgents in central Kabul ended early Wednesday with the four attackers killed, a government minister said, reporting no civilian or military casualties.
"Four attackers who had one RPG launcher, three AK-47s and one grenade launcher were killed in Wazir Akbar Khan," deputy interior minister Mohammad Ayoub Salangi said on Twitter.
The Taliban claimed responsibility for the overnight attack in the diplomatic district of Wazir Akbar Khan, as the insurgents press their annual spring offensive.
Sporadic blasts were heard hours after the assault began late Tuesday in the upmarket neighbourhood of Wazir Akbar Khan, home to several foreign embassies and a prime target for attacks.
"We have surrounded the area and cornered them," Kabul police spokesman Ebadullah Karimi told AFP earlier.
"The attackers wanted to get into Heetal Hotel but failed. They have now taken position among the trees behind the hotel and are firing at security forces."
The manager of the Heetal Hotel, owned by the family of Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani and known for being popular with foreigners, said all the guests were in safe rooms and no one was hurt.
"Heetal is very well fortified. After one or two initial explosions, our guards started firing on attackers who were unable to get inside," manager Beizhan told AFP by telephone from inside the guesthouse.
The Heetal was damaged in 2009 when a suicide bomber blew himself up outside the gate, killing eight people and wounding another 40.
Tuesday's attack began around 11:00 pm (1830 GMT). An AFP reporter near the scene heard the loud crackle of gunfire and more than a dozen explosions from the area.
 
 
The militants have launched a series of attacks in the capital and around the country as NATO forces have pulled back from the frontlines.
A blast triggered by a Taliban car bomber ripped through the parking lot of the justice ministry in Kabul on May 19, killing four people and wounding dozens of others.
Also this month 14 people -- mostly foreigners -- were killed in a Taliban attack on a guesthouse in the capital that trapped dozens attending a concert.
Official efforts to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table have so far borne little fruit.
The surge in attacks has taken a heavy toll on civilians, according to the United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan. In the first four months of 2015, civilian casualties jumped 16 percent from the same period last year, it said.
The Afghan government has drawn public criticism for failing to end insurgent attacks, which critics blame on political infighting and a lengthy delay in finalising a cabinet.
President Ashraf Ghani last Thursday nominated Mohammad Masoom Stanekzai, a top official in the government body overseeing the country's peace process, for the crucial position of defence minister.
The post had been left vacant for months due to disagreements between Ghani and his chief executive officer and former presidential election rival, Abdullah Abdullah.
Public criticism over the failure to appoint a defence minister has been especially fierce.
Afghan forces are now solely responsible for security after NATO's combat mission formally ended in December, with a small follow-up force staying on to train and support local personnel.
Earlier this month NATO formally announced plans to retain a small military presence in Afghanistan after 2016 to help strengthen local security forces.
Tags
Copyright © 2015 HT Media Limited.

