0
0
0
0
National Rifle Association leader Wayne LaPierre had some fiery, seemingly derogatory words for both U.S. President Barack Obama and likely 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton at the NRA's annual meeting in Nashville, Tennessee, Saturday. Reuters/Harrison McClary
National Rifle Association CEO and Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre told a crowd of Second Amendment advocates at the NRA’s 144th annual meeting that “eight years of one demographically symbolic president is enough,” which appeared to refer both to President Barack Obama’s race and presumptive 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s sex.
LaPierre’s comment at the gathering in Nashville, Tennessee, were tweeted by New York Times reporter Nick Corasaniti, who attended the meeting Saturday:
Wayne LaPierre at NRA members meeting today: "Eight years of one demographically symbolic president is enough."
LaPierre went on to reiterate his recent criticisms of both Obama and Clinton, based on his analysis of the Democrats’ respective stances on gun control. Regarding Obama’s remaining time in office, the Washington Examiner quoted the NRA head as saying “the next 650 days are the most dangerous” and that there is “no telling how far President Obama will go to dismantle our freedoms.”
LaPierre’s fiery rhetoric was echoed by Chris W. Cox, executive director of the NRA’s Institute for Legislative Action, who warned Clinton would make Obama “look like an amateur” on gun control should she be elected president and that she would push for “more gun bans, more ammo bans, and more anti-gun Supreme Court justices.”
“Obama won’t admit that he wants to register guns, but Hillary’s proud to support it,” said Cox, whose Institute for Legislative Action is considered one of the most powerful lobbying groups in the country.
When it comes to attacking our #2A #freedom , you can bet @HillaryClinton will make @BarackObama look like an amateur - @NRAILA Chris Cox
The NRA annual meeting brings together dozens of speakers, politicians and musical acts. LaPierre and Cox were joined by a dozen Republican leaders at one forum. Among them was U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, who announced his 2016 candidacy for president this week. Other likely Republican presidential candidates in attendance included Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida and Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, as well as former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, Reuters reported.
The Republicans hoped to gain support among the 70,000 or so NRA members who were expected to attend the meeting this year. The overwhelmingly conservative gun-rights association has between 3.5 million and 4 million members.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Like us
Follow us
Join us

