Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
Day in the life: Working in a NICU requires dedicated nurses
Top Stories in Jobs
Heidi's pics: Tom Goodlett Estate Collection featured in local auction
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
Dayton challenges lawmakers to take risks, invest in schools
By BRIAN BAKST and KIA FARHANG, Associated Press | April 9, 2015 | Updated: April 9, 2015 7:36pm
Page 1 of 1
ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Gov. Mark Dayton urged lawmakers Thursday to take political risks rather than follow public opinion polls as the Democrat sought support for an expansive preschool learning plan and other parts of his ambitious agenda in the final weeks of the legislative session.
The call was an overarching theme of Dayton's first State of the State speech in a second term, with his final campaign for political office behind him.
"During the remaining six weeks of this legislative session, we will face our own moments of truth," Dayton said, according to prepared remarks released before the prime-time speech. "Will we do what is easy, safe, and popular; or will we risk our political lives to preserve this great state for future generations?"
The challenge could apply to several parts of Dayton's agenda, including his bid for a new gas tax to pay for road-and-bridge repairs. Legislative Republicans — and some Democrats — are resisting that course.
Dayton's address comes later in the year than usual as he tries to stamp an exclamation mark on previously outlined proposals rather than roll out new ones. He has already released a two-year budget proposal, the long-term transportation finance plan, a general public works program and much more.
Dayton's wide-ranging speech had areas of emphasis, including a preschool initiative that aims to enroll all four-year-olds in quality, tuition-free learning programs. He previously has held it out as a complement to an all-day kindergarten offering enacted in his first term, both of which fit with his belief that giving younger kids a jumpstart in structured classrooms will improve odds for lifelong achievement.
Minnesota has one of the country's lowest rates of four-year-old enrollment in publicly-funded preschool programs, according to a recent report from the U.S. Department of Education. Just 15 percent were enrolled during the 2012-2013 school year, far below the national rate of 41 percent and severely lagging neighboring Wisconsin and Iowa. Dayton's $343 million plan would surely boost those numbers, though some lawmakers argue the money would be better used for scholarships for the neediest families than as a universal offering.
"We can be proud of our bi-partisan improvements over the past four years; but it's not a reason to stand still. Or to slide backward," Dayton was set to tell lawmakers.
The preschool initiative will be in stiff competition with aid requests from elementary and secondary schools as well as higher education institutions trying to hold down tuition. And Republicans, who control the House, have designs on substantial tax cuts.
Minnesota has a projected $1.9 billion surplus for the coming two years, igniting tensions over whether to direct it to priority programs or slash taxes.
Hours before Dayton spoke, a collection of Republican lawmakers called for across-the-board income tax cuts that would reduce the rates in all four brackets by a half-percentage point. They would kick in for tax year 2016 but wouldn't come cheap — $1.1 billion in the first 18 months alone.
"We are a little more concerned with the state of the family budget than the state of the state budget," said Sen. David Thompson , R-Lakeville.
Dayton has warned that cutting taxes so steeply would jeopardize the state's fiscal health.
In his speech, however, Dayton refrained from taking on the GOP tax calls but opposed the idea that Minnesota's taxes are too high.
"The state of our state is good. Not everywhere. Not for everyone," Dayton said. "But overall, Minnesota is doing better than it has for some time, and Minnesota is doing better than most other states. "
Featured Galleries
Top Stories and In-Depth Investigative Journalism
exclusively on
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

