15 states urge Supreme Court to uphold gay marriage bans - MyFoxAL.com - FOX6 WBRC Birmingham, AL
15 states urge Supreme Court to uphold gay marriage bans
WASHINGTON (AP) - Eight states where same-sex couples can marry are among 15 states urging the Supreme Court to uphold gay marriage bans and leave the matter to voters and lawmakers.
Louisiana and 14 other states are telling the justices in a brief filed Thursday that the court would do "incalculable damage to our civic life" if it decides that same-sex couples must be allowed to marry everywhere in the United States.
The states say they should be free to decide the issue for themselves.
Those seeking a nationwide decree in favor of same-sex marriage "urge the court to declare that the Constitution compels all 50 states to adopt this new form of marriage that did not exist in a single state 12 years ago. The court should decline that invitation," the states wrote.
Plaintiffs from Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee are asking the court to declare that the Constitution forbids states from denying same-sex couples the right to marry. The justices are scheduled to hear arguments on April 28.
Same-sex couples can marry in 37 states as a result of court decree, voter approval or legislative action.
The eight states on Thursday's legal filing where gay and lesbian couples can marry after courts struck down bans on gay marriage are: Alaska, Arizona, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Oklahoma, Utah and West Virginia.
Seven other states where same-sex marriage remains illegal also joined the brief. They are: Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota and Texas.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Leaders in Indiana and Arkansas are looking to move forward after taking different approaches to tamp down concerns about discrimination over religious objections laws. More >>
Two states roiled by criticism over new religious objections laws are looking to move forward after taking different approaches to changing the legislation to ease concerns about discrimination. More >>
Prosecutors say the arrests of two New York City women who talked about recipes for homemade bombs show authorities are committed to doing everything they can to prevent "attacks by homegrown violent extremists." More >>
A man whose family reported him missing at sea more than two months ago was found sitting on the overturned hull of his 35-foot sailboat far off the North Carolina coast, the U.S. Coast Guard said Thursday. More >>
A man whose family reported him missing at sea more than two months ago was found floating on the overturned hull of his sailboat 200 miles off the North Carolina coast on Thursday, the U.S. Coast Guard said. More >>
   

