Verdict in Boston Marathon bombing
Top Stories in US & World
Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
Day in the life: Working in a NICU requires dedicated nurses
Top Stories in Jobs
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
By David Saleh Rauf | April 9, 2015
Page 1 of 1
AUSTIN —  A top lobbyist for Uber mounted a vigorous defense Thursday of the company's criminal background checks, telling a panel of state House lawmakers that the ride-sharing firm's vetting process for drivers is more stringent than what many cities currently use.
Lawmakers in the House Transportation Committee are considering a bill to allow Uber to sidestep local ordinances established in cities like San Antonio and Houston in favor of a statewide regulation plan, a legislative effort the company is mounting across the country.
In Texas, however, Uber is on guard following the recent revelation that one of its drivers in Houston with a criminal record was charged last week with sexually assaulting a passenger.
Houston officials released a blistering report Wednesday, saying its own internal background checks had detected numerous crimes by prospective Uber drivers — and that same process, which includes mandatory fingerprinting, would have flagged the driver accused of sexual assault if he had sought a permit as required.
Sally Kay, who directs state affairs for Uber, told lawmakers that the company's system for background checks cast a broader net than an FBI database used to match fingerprints because it sends people directly to courthouses to pull records for each driver applicant.
She also contested the idea that Uber's background checks "wouldn't have caught something the Houston system would have caught."
"If we relied on the way many municipalities run their background checks, it wouldn't be strong enough for us," said Kay, later adding that 79 drivers who applied for Uber driver jobs and failed the company's background check had been approved by Houston.
Still, lawmakers were skeptical and argued that requiring fingerprint would be a way for Uber to go beyond its current safety protocol.
"There's a lot of people out there that believe this should be a basis," said State Rep. Joe Pickett, a Democrat from El Paso who chairs the Transportation Committee. "It's going to be difficult to educate 27 million people in Texas that your system is better than a 10-fingerprint background check."
The Houston sexual assault case came up several times during the hearing. State Rep. Larry Phillips, R-Sherman, asked whether the company's background check detected that the driver was on probation.
Kay responded that she could not speak about details, but said the company had launched an internal investigation.
"That's really not good enough for me, to be honest," Phillips said. "We want to make sure we have safety. If the 10-type (fingerprint) would have found it and your background check didn't  and you're saying your background check is better ... that doesn't make sense."
Phillips later added: "I think fingerprinting, 10-print, is something you're going to have to do. That's just the way I see it. If you want to do more, I certainly think you should."
Fingerprint checks generally are mandatory for taxi drivers, but Uber does not require them and has fought against such efforts, labeling them as burdensome regulations. The company's background check system also looks back seven years into a applicants criminal history, a time frame mocked by Phillips as not thorough enough: "Thank goodness it doesn't go past seven years because 10 years ago I was wild."
A total of 10 states have enacted legislation to regulate Uber. One of the most recent is Kansas, which Kay said is the only state, so far, to pass a bill requiring mandatory fingerprinting.
"We're actively considering leaving that state at the moment," she said.
Uber has ceased operating in San Antonio as a result of a local ordinance that allows drivers to start operating once they pass the company's background check, but still requires them to pass the city background check, including fingerprinting, within 14 days.
Kay, along with another Uber official, endured about an hour and a half of tough questioning from the panel Thursday morning. Several times, the Uber officials struggled to even answer questions.
State Rep. Yvonne Davis, D-Dallas, asserted that a liability disclaimer on Uber's website appeared to be tantamount to saying the company was not responsible for any actions committed by third-parties, including its drivers. Davis asked repeatedly for confirmation that such a disclaimer exists, but both Uber officials balked at providing a clear answer.
"That's the fundamental problem with your testimony. It's that you are not answering the questions beyond what you are safe with," Davis told Uber insurance policy manager Brad Nail.
To which Nail responded: "I don't want to seem like I'm evading your question."
There still are dozens of witnesses set to testify at the hearing, including officials from the City of Houston, which is set to resume this afternoon after the House adjourns.
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

