(Photo : Patdollard.com) President Barack Obama and his family attended Easter services at a historic Baptist church in Virginia.
Like Us on Facebook
First of all, he reminded church members not to take selfies to give U.S. President Barack Obama, wife Michelle and daughters Malia and Sasha undistracted private moments with the Lord, reports AP.
"This is not selfie time ... Let the brother worship in the house of God."
Also, the traditional walk around to greet everyone with the shake of a hand or a hug was altered as church members were encouraged to remain in their placed and greet only those who were near them. Otherwise, it would have created a major headache for Secret Service agents who were scattered around the church.
In itself, the church is a historic landmark because it was already worshiping when Thomas Jefferson was president about 200 years ago. It was formed in 1803 as a result of its split from another church in North Virginia. Its first member was a black who was baptized that year.
Besides Obama, President Bill Clinton also visited the same church but not during Easter. He attended its services in 2000 just before the November elections that year. He sang with the gospel choir and asked black voters to support Vice President Al Gore against then Republican candidate George W. Bush.
Wesley's homily appropriately focused on 1 Corinthians 15 about the life and resurrection.
"Where do you stand in the resurrection of Christ? You either believe it or reject it," Wesley said.
The pastor's Easter message was complemented by a soulful rendition of the hymn "He Lives" by the choir with the women in purple dressed and the mean wearing purple ties.
For the Obama Easter photo released by the White House, Huffington Post notes that Michelle Obama wore a teal hued, sleeveless dress which is in line with her signature style of wearing vibrant dresses that fits her form.
Meanwhile, 16-year-old Malia wore a navy blue-and-white printed dress, while 13-year-old Sasha had and orange-and-yellow colorblocked outfit with a thin white belt.
EDITOR RECOMMENDED
1
2
5
7
Top American golfer Tiger Woods is redesigning a Chinese golf course and is being paid US$16.5 million for his efforts despite China's recent shutdown of several golf courses, ... Full Article

