Share this article:
As Gov. Bruce Rauner continued his statewide budget plan tour, he also spent time trying convince Illinoisans and the media that his proposals could work only if his far-reaching structural changes come first. But he is taking heat for cutting funding for poor and disabled residents while granting previously negotiated corporate tax breaks.
“If I don’t talk about the conflict of interest and changing the structure, we can balance the budget. But it’ll get blown out down the road,” Rauner said in a wide-ranging discussion this week. “When I’m gone, we’ll elect another Blagojevich,” he said, referring to the imprisoned former governor. “We have a history of doing that. And the doors will be blown off again.”
Rauner said he plans to work with Democrats and Republicans, as the 2016 budget gets hammered out. He explained he thinks that while some of the cuts might hurt in the short term, such as a 2.25 percent cut for school budgets, the long-term benefits would outweigh the bad.
The Daily Herald noted people are chafing at the prospect of severe budget cuts. The governor said tax increases or budget additions could be part of a plan to offset those cuts–but not right away.
From the Daily Herald:
“I’ll talk about anything,” Rauner said. “But, the critical thing, first — and it can be first by a couple nanoseconds, but it’s first — is the structural reform.”
“If that’s where we go, it’ll suck all the oxygen out of the room,” he said of new taxes, saying that would stall his plan.
The governor is being strongly criticized for recent cuts to social service programs while still approving $100 million in corporate tax breaks. Those cuts, adding up to $26 million, were quietly ordered on a Friday night and will mean severe cuts in services to programs that provide funerals for the poor, immigration help and health services for people with autism and HIV. The cuts also included $180 million in park grants, says Crain’s Chicago Business .
“Giving tax breaks to big corporations while slashing millions from the services our most vulnerable citizens rely upon is beyond the pale,”  said Aviva Bowen, spokeswoman for Illinois Federation of Teachers. “Cutting funding for autism, homelessness, parks, and after-school programs before asking the most wealthy to chip in a dime is completely out of touch with what Illinois wants or deserves.”
Others criticizing Rauner include the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights and state Rep. Lou Lang, a Democrat from Skokie.
But the governor’s office told the Sun-Times the corporate tax break plan was hammered out under former Gov. Pat Quinn and won’t affect this year’s budget plan. His office has said cuts made in the short-term could help the state spend more on social services in the future.
The corporate tax break plan is part of the EDGE program, which makes fostering business growth in Illinois a priority for the state government. Rauner said during the campaign that the program needs revamping.
From Crain’s:
The Rauner administration has decided to make one big change in the Edge program, at least for now, while it evaluates its long-term policy on incentives. Until further notice, Edge will be available only for creating new jobs in the state, not for retaining current ones that could be moved out of Illinois.
The leader of another government facing fiscal problems, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, also dealt with matters involving schools and spending this week. In what could be the first business conversation the two have had in four years, Emanuel called Chicago Teachers Union President Karen Lewis in an effort to “break the ice,” reports the Sun-Times . (The two did exchange well wishes over text message last year when Lewis was in the hospital and Emanuel’s son was mugged.)
From the Sun-Times:
It was an attempt to break the ice between archrivals the day after a runoff election that saw the Lewis-led CTU pour hundreds of thousands of dollars and thousands of foot soldiers into the campaign of Emanuel’s vanquished challenger, Jesus “Chuy” Garcia.
“I’m all for trying to reset the button because I don’t think Rahm Emanuel and me not talking is productive,” Lewis said by telephone Thursday.
The mayor’s office also said Emanuel and Lewis would need to work together to make the city’s school system work effectively.
From the Sun-Times:
“The challenges they face in getting Springfield to act require that they work together. The election was a good opportunity to hit the reset button.”
The newspaper says this conversation could have re-started a relationship that “essentially hasn’t existed for four years.” The conciliatory tone matches Emauel’s stated goals of becoming a better listener in his second term as mayor.
As Emanuel tries to get city officials on board with his post-election plans , Rauner’s budget tour of the state will continues through April 11 before lawmakers return to work thereafter.
Share this article:
Tags
Join Us to Reboot Illinois
Get Our Free Daily Email
Email Address*
Editor's Picks
Want To Make A Difference In Illinois?

