Comment
Updated at 9:08 PM
Updated at 9:08 PM
SHREWSBURY – The Board of Health is considering implementing regulations to restrict the use and sale of e-cigarettes and other new nicotine-delivery products.
Karyn E. Clark, deputy director of the city of Worcester's Division of Public Health, and members of the local Board of Health, attended the Board of Selectmen’s meeting Tuesday night to let members know of the local board's plans.
Ms. Clark said the newer tobacco and vapor products are clearly being marketed to youth.
Some of the samples she brought included fruit-flavored cigars, disposable e-cigarettes, and small bottles of flavored nicotine used to refill e-cigarettes and hookah pens.
She said more high school students are smoking the new cigars because they’re cheaper than regular cigarettes, flavored to disguise the bad taste of tobacco and are easy to get.
“What Shrewsbury and a lot of other communities don’t have is regulations around these,” said Ms. Clark. “We’re very concerned about the fact that kids are getting their hands on these.”
Some young children are even drinking the bottles of flavorful liquid nicotine and becoming sick, she said.
Some proposals being considered include regulating the sale of nicotine-delivery products the same way as tobacco products, sign requirement in retail stores, banning e-cigarette use wherever smoking is banned, and limiting “other tobacco products,” including e-cigarettes, to adult-only retail tobacco stores.
The local board of health will discuss the proposals at its June 15 meeting.
A public hearing would be required prior to adoption of new regulations.
By Elaine Thompson
Telegram & Gazette Staff
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
  Top Jobs
Connect with telegram.com
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
telegram.com | 100 Front St, P.O. 15012, Worcester MA 01615-9100

