No bear hunt sign over I-4
Red Huber, Orlando Sentinel
Activist calling for no bear hunt hung a banner over I-4 at Conroy Road on Monday, April 6, 2015.
Activist calling for no bear hunt hung a banner over I-4 at Conroy Road on Monday, April 6, 2015. (Red Huber, Orlando Sentinel)
FWC voting April 15 on bear-hunt plan.
Florida bear-hunt opponent: 'We want to make the FWC realize the public is not in favor of this'
Activists opposed to a Florida bear hunt hung a giant banner this morning on the Interstate 4 overpass at Conroy Road, hoping they can mobilize like-minded motorists against the state plan.
At its meeting in Jacksonville in February, the Florida Fish & Wildlife Conservation Commission's decision-making board listened to five hours of testimony for and against bear hunting before the seven-member panel directed its staff to draft rules for a hunt that could be held as soon as October.
Caption Pictures: Bear sightings in Central Florida
Red Huber, Orlando Sentinel
Florida Black Bear visits a backyard in a Seminole County neighborhood in search of some dates from a palm tree, a natural food source.
Florida Black Bear visits a backyard in a Seminole County neighborhood in search of some dates from a palm tree, a natural food source. (Red Huber, Orlando Sentinel)
George Skene, Orlando Sentinel
Sandra Sheppard's uninvited guest makes himself at home, guzzling beer, eating all of the leftover birthday cake, helping himself to the frozen meats in the garage fridge and making a mess of the backyard. "He's stolen a lot of groceries from me," she said. Her neighborhood in Seminole County is one of the worst for bears. Nowhere in Florida, according to Fish & Wildlife Conservation Commission stats, do bears make a bigger nuisance of themselves. And November is the worst month.
Sandra Sheppard's uninvited guest makes himself at home, guzzling beer, eating all of the leftover birthday cake, helping himself to the frozen meats in the garage fridge and making a mess of the backyard. "He's stolen a lot of groceries from me," she said. Her neighborhood in Seminole County is one of the worst for bears. Nowhere in Florida, according to Fish & Wildlife Conservation Commission stats, do bears make a bigger nuisance of themselves. And November is the worst month. (George Skene, Orlando Sentinel)
George Skene, Orlando Sentinel
Sandra Sheppard's uninvited guest makes himself at home, guzzling beer, eating all of the leftover birthday cake, helping himself to the frozen meats in the garage fridge and making a mess of the backyard. "He's stolen a lot of groceries from me," she said. Her neighborhood in Seminole County is one of the worst for bears. Nowhere in Florida, according to Fish & Wildlife Conservation Commission stats, do bears make a bigger nuisance of themselves. And November is the worst month.
Sandra Sheppard's uninvited guest makes himself at home, guzzling beer, eating all of the leftover birthday cake, helping himself to the frozen meats in the garage fridge and making a mess of the backyard. "He's stolen a lot of groceries from me," she said. Her neighborhood in Seminole County is one of the worst for bears. Nowhere in Florida, according to Fish & Wildlife Conservation Commission stats, do bears make a bigger nuisance of themselves. And November is the worst month. (George Skene, Orlando Sentinel)
George Skene, Orlando Sentinel
Sandra Sheppard's uninvited guest makes himself at home, guzzling beer, eating all of the leftover birthday cake, helping himself to the frozen meats in the garage fridge and making a mess of the backyard. "He's stolen a lot of groceries from me," she said. Her neighborhood in Seminole County is one of the worst for bears. Nowhere in Florida, according to Fish & Wildlife Conservation Commission stats, do bears make a bigger nuisance of themselves. And November is the worst month.
Sandra Sheppard's uninvited guest makes himself at home, guzzling beer, eating all of the leftover birthday cake, helping himself to the frozen meats in the garage fridge and making a mess of the backyard. "He's stolen a lot of groceries from me," she said. Her neighborhood in Seminole County is one of the worst for bears. Nowhere in Florida, according to Fish & Wildlife Conservation Commission stats, do bears make a bigger nuisance of themselves. And November is the worst month. (George Skene, Orlando Sentinel)
"We want to make the FWC realize the public is not in favor of this," said Bryan Wilson, Central Florida coordinator of the Animal Rights Foundation of Florida.
He described those favoring a hunt as a "small and very loud minority of the population."
FWC's board will vote on the bear-hunting proposal April 15 at its meeting in Tallahassee, where hunters and sportsman will likely spar with naturalists and animal lovers.
If a majority of FWC's board favors a hunt of the state's largest native land mammal, then a final vote will take place in June.
A hunt is intended to keep the state's bear population in check, according to wildlife officials.
But Wilson and Kate MacFall, Florida director for The Humane Society of the United States, pointed out FWC is only midway through a scientific survey of black bears, the first count undertaken by the agency in more than a decade. The 2002 assessment estimated the state had 3,000 bears, including 1,000 in Central Florida.
MacFall said black bears, removed from the state's threatened list three years ago, remain vulnerable to habitat loss.
State wildlife officials insist that anecdotal evidence suggests the bear population has surged in Florida where nuisance complaints have grown from less than 100 in 1995 to more than 6,200 in each of the last three years.
Roadkills, also considered an indicator of the species' growth, have trended upward for more than a decade.
Among states that do not allow bear hunting, Florida has the largest population of bears.
Since December 2013, four people have been critically injured in separate run-ins with black bears, including three women in Seminole County.
Those attacks should not figure into the state's decision, Wilson said.
"You're not going to have bear hunts in subdivision and cul-de-sacs," he said.
The banner over I-4 is part of a larger campaign by the Humane Society and other conservation groups to flood FWC with petitions and other public comments opposed to the hunt.
"We want to put pressure on FWC to consider the public's position on this," Wilson said.
Comments
Loading

