Posted May 27, 2015 15:29:28
A leading China analyst is warning Australia to respond cautiously to Beijing's new defence strategy, which includes expanding its military power far beyond its borders.
In its newly-released defence white paper , the Communist country vowed to increase its "open seas protection", switching from air defence to both offence and defence.
Chinese defence ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said the decision to boost the China's naval capability was in response to a complex array of "security threats as well as increasing external challenges".
Defence expert Hugh White
The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia and Brunei are among the other countries that claim to have territorial control over islands in the South China Sea.
The maritime dispute has been a constant source of tension with Beijing.
Hugh White, a professor of Strategic Studies at the Australian National University, said China was sending a clear message to the United States and Australia that its defence paper goes far beyond territorial matters.
"What we're seeing in the white paper is a further step towards escalating strategic rivalry between the United States and China," he said.
"For a long time, Australian governments have been trying to tell voters or at least trying to persuade themselves that strategic rivalry between the US and China is not really escalating.
"They have been very reluctant to address the challenges for Australian policy if our biggest trading partner and our biggest ally becomes strategic rivals.
"Well, that's happening, and this white paper is a very plain statement of that."
US-China power struggle
Both sides have accused each other of stoking instability.
Professor White said a power battle was being played out on the world stage and the prospect of war was real.
"There is a real risk of a military conflict between [China and the US] which could easily escalate into quite a broadly based war," he said.
"Once that happens the dangers are very great indeed. Immense dangers to the whole region including to Australia.
"There's no reason to believe that the conflict might not in some circumstances escalate to the point of a nuclear exchange.
"And so I think the really important thing for Australia is to do whatever it can to help reduce that escalating rivalry and reduce the risk that it produces a conflict."
But Adrian Hearn, who specialises in Asia-Pacific Studies at the University of Melbourne, said he did not believe Australia, the US and China would allow the building tensions to result in a military confrontation.
"The decision-makers are intelligent enough that they're not going to be rushing into battle," Dr Hearn said.
"I don't think in the end we're going to see a direct confrontation any time soon.
"I would refer to this as a flashpoint more than as an imminent point of ignition."
Vietnam, China, Malaysia have eyes on the prize
Explore the conflicting territorial claims in the South China Sea
cell-slides
Rich in resources and traversed by a quarter of global shipping, the South China Sea is the stage for several territorial disputes that threaten to escalate tensions in the region.
At the heart of these disputes are a series of barren islands in two groups - the Spratly Islands, off the coast of the Philippines, and the Paracel Islands, off the coasts of Vietnam and China.
Both chains are essentially uninhabitable, but are claimed by no fewer than seven countries, eager to gain control of the vast oil and gas fields below them, as well as some of the region's best fishing grounds.
Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei have made claims to part of the Spratlys based on the internationally recognised Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), which extends 200 hundred nautical miles from a country's coastline.
Based on the EEZ, the Philippines has the strongest claim on the Spratlys and their resources, with its EEZ covering much of the area.
However the lure of resources, and prospect of exerting greater control over shipping in the region, means that greater powers are contesting the Philippines' claims.
China has made extensive sovereignty claims on both the Spratlys and the Paracels to the north, based largely on historic claims outlined in a map from the middle part of the 20th Century known as the 'Nine Dash Map'.
Taiwan also makes claims based on the same map, as it was created by the nationalist Kuomintang government, which fled to Taiwan after the communists seized power in China.
Vietnam also claims the Spratlys and the Paracels as sovereign territory, extending Vietnam's EEZ across much of the region and bringing it into direct conflict with China.
There have been deadly protests in Vietnam over China's decision to build an oil rig off the Paracels.
One Chinese worker in Vietnam was killed and a dozen injured in riots targeting Chinese and Taiwanese owned factories, prompting 3,000 Chinese nationals to flee the country.
EEZ can only be imposed based on boundaries of inhabitable land, and this has prompted all the countries making claims on the region to station personnel, and in some cases build military bases out of the water, to bolster their claim.
Building and protecting these structures has resulted in a series of stand-offs between countries in the region, each with the potential to escalate.
China has been leading the charge with these installations, and has deployed vessels to the region to protect their interests.
Chinese coast guard vessels have used a water cannon on Vietnamese vessels, as well as blockading an island where the Philippines has deployed military personnel.
More on this story:
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .
Features
Following the Government's decision to introduce new laws to strip citizenship from dual-nationals terrorists, ABC News Online looks at how citizenship is revoked.
As long as the public is debating my posture and attitude in interviews and fulminating over the ABC's supposed political bias, we're overlooking the more important analysis of the budget itself.
Top Stories
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)

