Like Father, Unlike Son: Where Ron and Rand Paul Differ
4/6/2015 4:35PM     
         
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
... Automall the ... is there ... a This is a movie with ... them ... it's time for a few friends ... free and cold jumping into the presidential recent fall in the footsteps of his father who ran unsuccessfully three times the generated that the supporters who believe in less government and a much smaller put her in foreign conflicts ... in the sun win them over ... when asked sinful challenging this campaign is to balance his desire to hold on to his father's libertarian ... enthusiastic support it's ... even wealthy because John ... is one thing he knows he can't win ... its profits ... as well ... there really is brand new into more mainstream positions from his father's anti establishment elites ... Ron Paul is built a reputation of abolishing the Federal Reserve ... his Republican who ran for president in two thousand twelve ... is the author of The and that the Fed ... with Ron Paul Ron Paul is the one correct switch somewhere in more modern although he still highly skeptical about the Federal Reserve ... is his daughter did not get rid of the Federal Reserve transparency Act known also as audit the Fed ... for he has also been bouncing three and ... his father was persistently against us but I need ... to take money from were people in this country you end up giving it to reach people import countries ... Brenda Zach's history degree one possible reason to be is as countries including Israel ... Brent is also because the countries meet certain conditions before I get horny ... so so so that I keep sending it flying ... less and eight ... when they act like our allies Ron Paul supporters rallied around his opposition to military action in places like Iraq ... when however is hoping to limited military action ... and have supported military action against the Islamic State ... in a bigger military budget ... the shares for more provocative positions and dad ... have occurred during his time in the Senate ... making our strong alliances with establishment Republicans like Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell ... but that causes the downsides too ... he was elected until two thousand and ... eight cave in on oh eight the ... tea party activists ... it was pretty closely allied with his father is actually part of health since his play to reach out ... to the mainstream ... get more established support ... in some cases daily in it's ... it's ... it's amazing well ... he's

