By BILL ERVOLINO
Lincoln has even found his way into a handful of novels, including Jerome Charyn's "I Am Abraham: A Novel of Lincoln and the Civil War" (2014) and Seth Grahame-Smith's unlikely bestseller "Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter" (2011).
As far as we know, Lincoln never publicly discussed his vampire-fighting days, but he was known to have a deep interest in spiritualism. And his ghost has apparently popped up at the White House on more than one occasion. (Winston Churchill, Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands, Theodore Roosevelt, Margaret Truman and Maureen Reagan are among the many, many notables who admitted to seeing Lincoln or feeling his presence there.)
Less ghostly, but no less interesting: Garry Wills' "Lincoln at Gettysburg" (1993), a Pulitzer Prize-winning examination of how Lincoln shaped his Gettysburg Address, and David Herbert Donald's bestselling biography "Lincoln" (1995), which traces the president's life from his childhood in rural Kentucky to his time presiding over "a house divided."
Kevin Peraino's "Lincoln in the World" (2013) provides a highly detailed glimpse into the 16th president's foreign policy decisions and incorporates previously unearthed material about Lincoln's interactions with Napoleon III and British prime minister Lord Palmerston, among many others. (While still a congressman, Lincoln opposed then-President James Polk's stance on Mexican-American relations, a Lincoln position that was widely criticized at the time.)
Several acclaimed books have focused primarily on Lincoln's assassination. They include "The Lincoln Murder Conspiracies" by William Hanchett (1983); "Beware the People Weeping" by Thomas Reed Turner (1982); "Blood on the Moon: The Assassination of Abraham Lincoln" by Edward Steers, Jr. (2005); and "American Brutus: John Wilkes Booth and the Lincoln Conspiracies" by Michael Kauffman (2005).
In 1954, Carl Sandburg's two biographies of Lincoln, "The Prairie Years" and "The War Years," were compiled into one volume. Together and separately, these books are still available today and are also available in audiobook and MP3 formats.
"Speeches and Writings, 1832-1858" is a comprehensive collection of Lincoln's best essays and addresses. And, lest anyone think the gentleman was a slouch, this volume is a hefty 898 pages long.
An online search of Lincoln's speeches will turn up several other volumes, and recordings by actors. Among them: an unabridged video re-creation of the Lincoln-Douglas debates on slavery, featuring actors David Strathairn as Lincoln and Richard Dreyfuss as Stephen Douglas. (The audio package is available on CD from amazon.com for $38.05 and has a running time of more than 16 hours.)
Lincoln's battle with depression, which lasted for much of his adult life, is examined in "Lincoln's Melancholy" by Joshua Wolf Shenk. Drawing from historical records, Shenk traces the president's "melancholy" (as depression was called in 1800s) and how it shaped his presidency.
Yet another aspect of Lincoln's life is deftly covered in "The Lincolns: Portrait of a Marriage" (2008), which delves into the unique partnership between the president and his wife, the former Mary Todd. It is also the most extensive account of the Lincoln's marriage before he became president.
Gore Vidal's "Lincoln," published in 1984 and later made into a television miniseries, looks at the Lincoln presidency through the eyes of those closest to him, including his wife, cabinet members and the man who shot him. It's a novel, but one that drew heavily from personal letters, diaries and memoirs. And while the book has its detractors, it's been highly praised for what it did get right and how well Vidal described Lincoln's White House years.
There have been several children's books about Lincoln. Among the most praiseworthy are Edgar Parin D'Aulaire's "Abraham Lincoln (Bicentennial Edition)" for kids 4-8 and "Abraham Lincoln: From Pioneer to President" by Ellen Blue Phillips, for ages 10 and up.
Email: ervolino@northjersey.com
Tags:

