Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
TV and Radio
Too busy for TV ... he may be the Holy Father but he's no idea who Kim Kardashian is. Photo: Reuters
Pope Francis, beloved leader of the Catholic world and a man who clearly has a lot of very important things going on in his life, has revealed one way he finds time to get those important things done - he hasn't watched television in nearly 25 years.
Speaking with a Bueno Aires newspaper, His Holiness said he stopped watching in 1990 after making a promise to The Virgin Mary.
And presumably after seeing the debut of Tonight Live With Steve Vizard and thinking "well I've seen it all now, no use hanging about."
So, ignoring the all important question of what on earth he has all his furniture aimed at* this means Pope Francis is one of the few people in the western world who probably does not - shock! - have a clue who Kim Kardashian is.
Advertisement
And given he's unlikely to take time out any time soon to binge watch a couple of decades of T, he's our top ten TV moments to bring The Pope up to speed.
(Spoiler alert: If you, like Pope Francis, have had better things to do than sit in front of the TV for the past couple of decades, look away now if you don't want some fairly major TV moments ruined):
1. Kim Kardashian is officially A Thing
She's the daughter of a famous lawyer, who became Paris Hilton's friend, then made a naughty home movie and now millions around the world watch her every move. You're missing nothing.
2. Hendo has retired
The incredibly long-running newsreader announced on air in 2002 he would be hanging up his hat. It was a strange moment - he'd been there forever - but that's just the way it is.
3. Monica and Chandler end up together
It's a Friends thing. You'll think she's going to wind up with Magnum PI, but nope, they fall in bed and love in London (long story, Ross gets married again, sort of) and wind up adopting twins.
4. Scott and Charlene have a son!
Remember when Charlene and Scott took off to Queensland to live the post-Ramsay Street dream? Well it seems they had a boy, Daniel and last year he came back to Erinsborough.
5. Bouncer has kids too!!!
OK, so stick with me here. Bouncer the dog apparently had a relationship with another as-yet-unnamed bitch and they had kids. Those kids then had kids and one did a "Lassie Come Home" earlier this year.
6. McDreamy doesn't make it
Poor Meredith Grey. She found love in the very first episode of Greys with Dr Derek Shepherd but after a rocky few years, had to switch off his life support system this year. Yes, we cried.
7. Ronn Moss has left Bold And The Beautiful
The producers asked him to take a pretty hefty pay cut so Ronn, who lets face it could make a living at ANYTHING he wanted to, walked. There's a new Ridge, but we fast forward past him.
8. Buffy saved the world. A lot.
Can't say a lot about this aside from get the box set and start at the beginning. Ignore the Riley years, don't get too attached to Anya and yes, the Once More With Feeling soundtrack is available on iTunes.
9. Frasier left Boston and got his own radio show.
One of the only bar flies from Cheers to get away, Dr Crane took off for Seattle and became quite the celebrity. Not Kim Kardashian levels, but up there.
10. Milko was real and he comes back to Summer Bay.
So it turns out little Sally Fletcher (who's not little anymore BTW, she's married and has a daughter IRL) wasn't imagining things when she talked about Milko. That was her brother Miles Copeland (Mil-Co! Get it!) who showed up in the Bay. I know, I rolled my eyes too.
*And yes, that's a line from Friends. Joey said it. You'd like him, he's a good Catholic boy. Mostly.
Channel
Channel
Channel
Channel
Channel
Channel
Browse TV and Radio
Browse TV and radio
23,149 online now
contact us

