Executive energy
This week, the Obama Administration committed itself to an ambitious blueprint that would slash American greenhouse-gas emissions by more than one-fourth over the next decade. Despite immediate and predictable dismissal from congressional Republicans, the plan appears useful and doable.
President Obama has pledged to use his executive authority to reduce emissions by as much as 28 percent by 2025, through U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations. The plan would accelerate the nation’s shift from fossil fuels to clean energy, including tougher vehicle fuel-economy standards and new curbs on coal-fired power plants.
Under the proposal, states would have the freedom to write their own plans for reducing carbon pollution, based on their economies and manufacturing needs. The federal government wants all states to reduce their carbon footprints, but the EPA won’t tell them how to do it.
Such flexibility could prove important for Ohio, which already has relaxed its previously tough standards for renewable energy and energy efficiency. Ohio is one of the nation’s leading carbon polluters, ranking fourth among the states in total carbon emissions and coal consumption.
The Obama plan gives Statehouse leaders another opportunity to pursue efforts that would enable Ohio to obtain more of its electricity from alternative sources. It also will test their sincerity about achieving this goal.
Empowering each state is smart, but state officials must take seriously the commitment to slow human-made climate change. President Obama plans to use his executive authority because any proposed climate-change legislation likely would be blocked by the GOP-controlled Congress.
Ohioans could face a similar challenge. The GOP-led General Assembly and Gov. John Kasich have shown scant commitment to reducing carbon pollution from the state’s power plants, and have failed to lead on promoting alternative energy.
Meanwhile, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) urges states to reject the administration’s proposed Clean Power Plan. State lawmakers should not allow themselves to be bullied by such “just say no” partisan rhetoric.
The Obama Administration’s plan to reduce carbon pollution is smart and overdue. The President is making good on his commitment to environmental protection, and is giving state officials a chance to work toward climate-change solutions. Neither the country nor Ohio can continue to ignore the problem.
Recommended for You
Guidelines: Please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent. If a comment violates these standards or our privacy statement or visitor's agreement , click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report abuse. To post comments, you must be a Facebook member. To find out more, please visit the FAQ .
Your e-mail:
Your Name:
Friends e-mail:
Friends Name:
Copyright 2015 The Blade. All rights reserved. This material may not be copied or distributed without permission.
Copyright 2015 The Blade. By using this service, you accept the terms of our privacy statement and our visitor agreement . Please read them.
The Toledo Blade Company, 541 N. Superior St.,     Toledo, OH 43660, (419) 724-6000
To contact a specific department or an individual person, click here .
The Toledo Times ®

