By Associated Press May 27 at 2:23 AM
SINGAPORE — Singapore Airlines said Wednesday that it is investigating how one of its jets suffered a loss of power in both of its engines over the weekend, falling 13,000 feet (3,962 meters) before regaining altitude en route from Singapore to Shanghai.
The Airbus A330-300 was carrying 182 passengers and 12 crew members when the incident occurred Saturday, the airline said in a statement. The jet lost power in both engines after hitting bad weather 3 1/2 hours into the flight. Power was restored after “the pilots followed operational procedures to restore normal operation of the engines,” the statement said.
Data from FlightRadar24.com and a report in the Aviation Herald revealed that the plane was cruising at 39,000 feet (11,887 meters), about 260 kilometers (162 miles) from Hong Kong, when both Rolls-Royce Trent 772 engines stopped working.
The jet dropped to 26,000 feet (7,925 meters) before power was restored, and climbed back to 31,200 feet (9,510 meters) before it landed safely in Shanghai about 1 hour, 40 minutes later, the report said.
Singapore Airlines said that no “anomalies” were detected in either of the engines, and that it is reviewing the incident with Rolls-Royce and Airbus.
The plane later took off to return to Singapore after a two-hour delay, Aviation Herald reported.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!


Singapore Airlines investigates rare power-loss incident
Singapore Airlines is investigating how one of its Airbus A330-300s temporarily lost power in both Rolls-Royce engines in mid-flight, the carrier said on Wednesday.
PHOTO: BLOOMBERG
May 27, 2015 11:12 AM
[SINGAPORE] Singapore Airlines is investigating how one of its Airbus A330-300s temporarily lost power in both Rolls-Royce engines in mid-flight, the carrier said on Wednesday.
The May 23 incident occurred when Flight SQ836 hit bad weather en route to Shanghai from Singapore with 194 passengers and crew on board. "Both engines experienced a temporary loss of power and the pilots followed operational procedures to restore normal operation of the engines," SIA said in a statement.
The flight landed safety in Shanghai, where no immediate "anomalies" were found in the engine, it added.
Rolls-Royce said it is providing "support and technical assistance" to SIA, while Airbus said it is in contact with both the airline and the engine maker to determine the cause of the power loss.
Singapore's Air Accident Investigation Bureau (SAAIB) did not immediately say if it would open an investigation into the incident.
Pilots told Reuters that losing power in both engines is an extremely rare event, but one that they are trained to handle. "We do occasionally lose power in one engine for various reasons, but you hardly ever lose both engines. If that happens, you follow the procedures in your check-list and try to restart the engines. The pilots successfully did that here," said a senior captain in a Southeast Asian airline. "If it was a very serious incident, they would have diverted to Hong Kong. But the fact that they continued on to Shanghai indicates that this may not have been as serious," the pilot said, declining to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the media.
REUTERS
More

