Reid finally admits gutter tactics
Photo by: 
AP (File)
HE DIDN’T WIN: U.S. Sen. Harry Reid, above, admitted he did not tell the truth in 2012 when he berated Mitt Romney for not paying taxes.
1
Mitt Romney is turning the other cheek again — dammit.
As you know, U.S. Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada has basically admitted to CNN that he was lying about Mitt back in 2012. That was when Reid came up with a preposterous whopper about an anonymous phone caller telling him that the GOP presidential candidate hadn’t paid any income taxes for over a decade.
Reid floated his tall tale on the floor of the Senate, which meant he couldn’t be sued for slander. It was a technique pioneered by Joe McCarthy, a fact even the CNN anchor grasped when she mentioned “McCarthyism” to Reid.
You have to see the video of the minority leader’s reply. After his mysterious, ahem, injury on New Year’s Day, he’s wearing these huge glasses, with a clouded right lens, that make him look like an old-style Mafia don. Then he gets this little smirk on his face.
“They can call it whatever they want. He didn’t win, did he?”
So far Mitt has steadfastly declined to comment. He apparently doesn’t want to take a victory lap. Or at least an I-told-you-so lap. C’mon Mitt, we know you’re a nice guy, but Leo Durocher was right: “Nice guys finish last.”
Harry Reid and Mitt Romney — they’re both Mormons, but talk about a double standard. Have any late-night comedians ever accused Reid of wearing “magic underwear,” or maintaining a harem? Didn’t think so. But then, Reid is a Democrat. It would be hate speech to attack Reid’s religion. Romney, on the other hand, is a Republican, so slamming his faith is speaking truth to power.
Here’s Joe Kennedy II in 1994 discussing the religion of his Uncle Ted’s opponent for the U.S. Senate:
“If a particular church has a belief that blacks are second-class citizens, and that’s the stated belief of the church ... I mean you ought to take a look at those issues.”
Uncle Ted vigorously endorsed his nephew’s non-celebration of diversity. So much for all those “COEXIST” bumper stickers. Ted Kennedy, the same guy of whom Obama said Monday: “What if we carried ourselves more like Ted Kennedy?”
In the end, Joe K was forced to apologize to Mitt, expressing his “deep regret” for his bigoted, ignorant comments. Nothing to see here folks, move along. ...
After Reid confessed this week on CNN, a former columnist in Nevada posted a column that the Las Vegas Sun refused to print in 2012 when Reid started lying about Romney. The publisher didn’t want to offend his dear pal Harry. In the spiked column, the writer not only blasted Reid but also his fellow Democrats who refused to condemn him for his blatant falsehoods:
“Judging by the mindless, seal-like behavior of many Democratic partisans — you go, Senator! — Reid’s ‘I-heard-this-from-someone-but-I-can’t-tell-you-who’ approach is only revving up the base.”
The low-info, EBT-card-carrying base, that is.
Overall, it’s been a good year for Willard. Not only Reid is disgraced (even if he doesn’t care, which he obviously doesn’t) but John Lakian is also down for the count. Remember Lakian — the GOP also-ran who in 1994 called Romney “Mr. Mormon”?
Lakian was indicted by the feds in February, charged with stealing more than $11 million from investors and conspiring to defraud banks of another $8 million. Bail was set at $2 million. How sweet it must be, right Mitt?
Mr. Mormon could not be reached for comment.
 
© Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.

