Joan Marcus photo
Joan Marcus photo
In response to the Indiana Religious Freedom Restoration Act, art and religion don't yet mix.
On the face of it, the now-notorious Indiana Religious Freedom Restoration Act would appear to be something a liberal secularist — or, at least, a liberal secularist with libertarian tendencies — could embrace. The idea of government being obliged to show "compelling interest" before imposing substantial burdens on the exercising of a free person's religion hardly seems unreasonable. One does not have to practice religion to support the right to do so, as unencumbered as is reasonably possible, of one's fellow Americans.
But the legislation, at least prior to the after-the-fact signing of an anti-discrimination clause April 2, was widely seen as a stalking horse for discrimination, a coded way for anti-gay businesses to discriminate against gay families or refuse them service. There was evidence in the genesis of the bill for this interpretation. So progressive secularists — many in the creative communities — fought hard against the legislation, with performers planning protests, and bands like Wilco initially canceling (if finally reinstating) their Indiana gigs.
There are dangers of oversimplification: There are people of faith who opposed the Indiana act and conservative supporters of the act who are secularists. Still, for the most part, conservative people of faith mostly were on the opposite side from professionals who create art. It is a familiar divide, long at the center of the ever-resurgent culture wars, whatever round is playing out.
Can anything ever be done?
It is a difficult gulf to bridge. Back in 1995, Chicago's Steppenwolf Theatre Company produced the medieval morality play "Everyman," replete with a diverse cast and the Windy City Gay Chorus singing Gregorian chants, all under the direction of Frank Galati. It was a hugely promising idea, suggesting a rare coming together of evangelism and progressive art. But it didn't work, mostly because the text being performed was so stubbornly absolutist: You come to Jesus by doing this and this, folks, or you go directly to hell. There was something in that moral certainty that the production could not help but fight against, and thus it inevitably fought against the very play it was doing.
"Everyman" was in my mind when I walked in to see "The Good Book," the current play at the Court Theatre by Lisa Peterson and Denis O'Hare, and a new theater piece with the lofty ambition of exploring the Bible — its genesis, history and role in American life. Here, too, the work struggled with how to fully articulate the point of view of those who care most about the Bible, those who closely follow its guideposts for living. The piece was able to separate the person from the rule-keeping (a distinction also made by "The Book of Mormon" ) and present a person trying to maintain faith while railing against the rules of the Roman Catholic Church. But when it came to those who follow such rules happily, those who not do feel at odds with their strictures, the piece was much less sure of what it wanted to say.
Yet those who closely follow biblical precepts consistently make the news. The New York Times recently reported on the controversy of a growing number of ultraorthodox Jewish men, responding in part to edicts in verses in the book of Leviticus, refusing to sit next to women other than their wives on airplanes. It was a good story not least because it touched on an issue where the following of religious rules inherently impinged on the rights of another person both to not be so judged, and to sit where they wanted to sit. (And for the plane to take off). As was the case with that Steppenwolf "Everyman," it is not easy to see any middle ground.
Biblical movies also tend to be fraught with problems, even as films like "Noah" mostly avoid the core of these issues, preferring to embrace mythic adventure. To his credit, "Noah" writer and director Darren Aronofsky embraced some moral complexity, or, if you prefer, weirdness. But that's rare. In his review of Ridley Scott 's "Exodus: Gods and Kings" the movie critic of London's Observer, Mark Kermode, rightly lamented the "age-old campery that has long bedeviled biblical epics," whether it's the excesses of the costume designer, the parting of digitized seas or the sheer impossibility of casting someone to play God.
So is that the eternal choice: works that struggle to understand people of conservative faith or a surfeit of gold lame and special effects at the expense of intellectual heft?
Certainly, serious artists can and should do better at understanding people of faith. The cliches surrounding the depiction of such people are omnipresent, although Robert Askins' new Broadway play, "Hand to God," which looks at a group of struggling souls in a Texas church who use puppets to act out what they really seem to feel, was a big step forward in the crucial matters of compassion, complexity and believability. For once, people of faith were not treated as absolutists.
After all, the arts and the great religions share a common belief in the power of transformation. They both are attempts to understand why we're all here, only to exit at a time and a place not of our choosing. They both manifest the essential role of narrative in our lives, stories being the only way we seem to be able to explain things. To a point.
It remains frustrating how much these great questioning entities so often seem to slide by each other in the dark, lost in mutual misunderstanding.
Loading

