Middays with MFB
Dale & Holley  
Weekend Shows  
Phone: 617-779-7937    Text: 37937   
Latest Columns
Latest Columns
Featuring the latest Red Sox, Celtics, Patriots, and Bruins videos
Twitter
For an official list of WEEI radio hosts and writers on twitter, click here .
Follow the station @WEEI
Like WEEI, and the shows, on facebook by clicking here .
05.27.15 at 12:07 am ET
The Red Sox remain stuck in the mud.
While they make progress in getting out, they then seemingly fall right back in.
After winning the final two games over the weekend against the Angels, the Red Sox have lost their first two games of a seven-game road trip, falling to the Twins 2-1 Tuesday night in Minneapolis. The was delayed at the start by 81 minutes due to rain.
Their latest defeat came at the hands of Twins right-hander Mike Pelfrey, who entered with a career ERA just under 4.50. Pelfrey limited the Red Sox to one run on five hits over seven innings. Between the third and seventh inning, he limited the Red Sox to only two hits.
The visitors had a chance to tie, or take the lead in the eighth inning with the bases loaded and two outs for Hanley Ramirez , but the left fielder flew out to right field to end the threat. Over the first 24 games in May, the Red Sox are averaging just 2.75 runs per game.
Mike Napoli drove in the Red Sox’ only run of the game, a single up the middle in the second inning.
Red Sox starter Clay Buchholz continued his season-long trend of starting slow, but settling in. After allowing two first inning runs, and not having his best overall stuff, Buchholz went 7 1/3 innings, allowing two runs on seven hits, while walking one and striking out four. Over his last four starts his ERA is 2.17, but the Red Sox are 1-3 in those games.
Buchholz continues to struggle in the first inning, as he allowed two runs once again. For the season he’s allowed 13 first inning runs in 10 starts. It hasn’t just been Buchholz, the Red Sox as a team struggle in the first inning, being outscored 35-14 in the opening frame.
SWENSON GRANITE WORKS ROCK SOLID PERFORMER OF THE GAME: Buchholz. The right-hander delivered his fourth straight quality start, but the offense couldn’t help him out as his record dropped to 2-6. He’s thrown three straight starts of at least seven innings. Vote on the Rock Solid Performer of the week and enter to win a VIP Boston Baseball Experience at weei.com/rocksolid .
Here is what went wrong (and right) in the Red Sox’ loss:
WHAT WENT WRONG
— Dustin Pedroia had a tough night both in the field and at the plate. Batting leadoff for the fourth straight game, the second baseman went 1-for-4, including hitting into a double play. He also made his fourth error of the season in the field — this comes after having just two all of last year.
— Sliding up into the No. 4 spot in the order, Ramirez went 0-for-4, including flying out with the tying run on third base in the eighth inning. Since missing a few games with a shoulder injury in late April, he’s hitting just .206 and having trouble hitting for power from his pull side.
— Xander Bogaerts and Rusney Castillo combined to go 0-for-7 in the No. 7 and No. 8 spots. Bogaerts also tried to bunt with no one on and two outs in the seventh inning.
WHAT WENT RIGHT
— David Ortiz snapped an 0-for-16 skid with a double in the second inning. The designated hitter finished the night 1-for-4, after being dropped to fifth in the order.
— Sandy Leon went 2-for-3. He came into the came with only two hits the entire month of May.
— Although Pablo Sandoval went 1-for-4 in the No. 3 spot, his only hit came left-on-left in the eighth inning against closer Glen Perkins. It’s the second straight day he’s got a hit against a lefty, both coming when hitting from the right side.
— Castillo made two web gem catches in right field.

