Bangor Daily News staff
Wednesday, May 27, 2015
AUGUSTA — Gov. Paul LePage on Tuesday nominated Judges Wayne R. Douglas, Bruce C. Mallonee and Lance E. Walker to the Maine Superior Court.
Share
Sponsor
“I am pleased to nominate three individuals with distinguished records on the bench,” said LePage in a written statement. “In choosing judges, my focus is on the qualifications, demeanor and integrity of the candidates, not politics. These nominees reflect those priorities.”
Douglas of Ocean Park was appointed to the Maine District Court bench by former Gov. Angus King, for whom Douglas had been chief legal counsel, in 2002. Douglas also served a stint as the associate commissioner of the Maine Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation.
Douglas, a Bates College graduate who holds a law degree from the University of Maine School of Law, would replace Justice Paul Fritzche when Fritzche retires in July.
Mallonee of Bangor has been a member of the Maine District Court since he was appointed to that bench by former Gov. John Baldacci in 2010. Mallonee is a former partner at the Bangor Law firm Rudman & Winchell. He would replace Justice Joyce Wheeler, who has retired. Mallonee is a graduate of the University of Kansas and earned a law degree from the University of Kansas School of Law.
Walker of Falmouth was appointed to the Maine District Court bench in 2014 after having been a partner in the firm Norman, Hanson & DeTroy LLC in Portland. Walker also served as a law clerk to three Superior Court justices. Walker is a graduate of the University of Maine and has his law degree from the University of Maine School of Law.
Walker would replace Justice Thomas Humphrey, who was nominated for the Maine Supreme Judicial Court in early May.
The nominations are subject to review by the Legislature’s Judiciary Committee, followed by confirmation by the full Senate.
Login to post comments
In order to comment on SunJournal.com, you must hold a valid subscription allowing access to this website. You must use your real name and include the town in which you live in your SunJournal.com profile. To subscribe or link your existing subscription click here .
Excessively foul and/or vulgar
Baseless personal attacks or otherwise threatening
Contain illegal material, or material that infringes on the rights of others
Commercial postings attempting to sell a product/item
If you violate this policy, your comment will be removed and your account may be banned from posting comments.
Advertisement
Comments
Advertisement
Email Address
OXFORD — A construction worker at the wastewater treatment plant site on Route 121 was taken to a hospital after falling 25 feet face-first onto metal bars stacked flat Tuesday morning.  Robert McClure, 51, suffered injuries that are not life-threatening. He was taken ...
Christopher Crosby, Staff Writer • Oxford Hills • Tuesday, May 26, 2015 at 11:25 am
Bangor Daily News • Maine • Tuesday, May 26, 2015 at 12:59 pm
The Maine Warden Service reports that Michael Chapman and Kelli Macfarlin have been located alive.  Game wardens were searching for the people from Newport, according to the Maine Warden Service. Chapman, 40, and Macfarlin, 38, were camping by Little Wilson Falls in Piscataquis...
Ryan McLaughlin, Bangor Daily News • Maine • Tuesday, May 26, 2015 at 1:31 pm
• Oxford Hills • Tuesday, May 26, 2015 at 5:40 pm
The Associated Press • Maine • Tuesday, May 26, 2015 at 6:55 am
Beth Brogan, Bangor Daily News • Maine • Tuesday, May 26, 2015
AUGUSTA, Maine — Citing growing concerns about state government’s apparent lack of respect for tribal sovereignty, the Passamaquoddy and Penobscot tribes announced Tuesday that they were withdrawing their delegates to the Maine Legislature. “We have gone to great lengths ...
Mario Moretto, Bangor Daily News • Maine • Tuesday, May 26, 2015 at 12:03 pm
Zach Gosselin, 18, presents the fish he caught to Dixon Dilodovico, 18, to remove from the line. The two were taking advantage of Edward Little High School's senior marching practice day to get in a little fishing on the Androscoggin River on Tuesday.
Andree Kehn, Staff photographer • Lewiston-Auburn • Tuesday, May 26, 2015 at 3:35 pm
• Oxford Hills • Tuesday, May 26, 2015 at 11:38 am
Advertisement
Lifestyle
Opinion
Services
SunJournal.com

