Updated 29                                                                                                    mins ago
Share
of
China has ended a long period of currency manipulation according to the IMF.
AFP
The International Monetary Fund's declaration that China's currency is no longer undervalued due to government manipulation should be good news for Australia which is more exposed to trade with China than most countries.
For those of us who like to think that greater economic integration around the world from the shared prosperity of freer trade will help ease security tensions, a China that plays more by the rules of comparative advantage rather than traditional East Asian mercantilism is good.
It will have a greater stake in making the world trading system work, will be under more pressure at home to make its domestic economy more efficient and its currency will be closer to being accepted as an official reserve currency commensurate with its role in world commerce.
But in the uncertain environment of a transition between superpowers – something that has rarely happened in history without conflict – this does not look like being the case.
Instead the IMF's watershed declaration on Tuesday seems set to be quickly overshadowed by a high stakes showdown between the US and China over maritime border issues at this weekend's peak regional defence conference in Singapore.
One of the curious fractures in the globalised world is the way security analysts and economic analysts often talk past each other when, especially in the case of the rise of a new global power, there needs to be more synthesis of views.
The IMF's latest report on its consultations with China outlines a very positive view of the country's economic rebalancing to sustain its growth and move to what the IMF calls a "safer and higher-quality growth path."
And what does the IMF think this mean for the world? "China has played an increasingly important role in driving global growth, contributing to global economic and financial stability, and helping to improve the international monetary system."
This is quite a different helicopter view than the one broadcast by CNN last week from the vantage point of a US military surveillance flight making a point about freedom of navigation to increasingly agitated Chinese air traffic control officials.
But even the currency manipulation issue itself seems set to remain mired in mixed objectives despite the IMF view that the renminbi is no longer undervalued after a decade of steady real appreciation.
This should make it easier for US President Barrack Obama to get Congressional approve to pursue his long sought Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal because the IMF has demolished the demands by US politicians for protectionist provisions which some Asian countries won't accept.
The only problem is that despite the global umpire's ruling, the US Administration seems to be standing by its own Treasury view the renminbi is undervalued, which will only fuel the opposition to the trade deal.
This can only add to the suspicion the TPP is really about a challenged incumbent superpower trying to retain control over the rules of global trade and commerce to the benefit of a narrow group of powerful companies rather than a serious effort to create a genuine regional open economy.
Indeed the president himself seems to talk more about muscling up to China in the context of selling the TPP than broadening the regional market. This may reflect the sour domestic politics surrounding free trade in the US as much as new security thinking about containing the rising Chinese economy that pays for military expansion plans, but it still raises questions about the real purpose of the TPP.
The IMF says other Chinese domestic economic settings such as excessive savings and the way currency intervention is done still require change, but it says this is happening in a way which should allow a floating currency within three years.
That's a gold stamp of approval China will be sure to communicate to the neighbouring countries which depend on its growth and trade.
As the US prepares to stand up to China on its maritime fringes after this weekend's dialogue, it also should be doing more to ensure the TPP is a trade expanding rather than containment tool.
Share
Access anytime, anywhere on your desktop, tablet or mobile
Personal alerts and market updates straight to your inbox

