Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
The Associated Press
04/09/2015 5:55 PM
04/09/2015 5:55 PM
KAILUA-KONA, Hawaii
Gov. David Ige says he's listening and looking for a way for discovery and sacred sites to coexist at Mauna Kea.
West Hawaii Today (http://bit.ly/1CZO2cJ ) reports the governor says he's been doing a lot of listening to get a 360-degree view of the planned Thirty Meter Telescope project. Ige says all previous agreements and decisions will be honored.
The governor was speaking Wednesday at a Kona-Kohala Chamber of Commerce luncheon in Kailua-Kona.
Earlier this week the governor announced a weeklong moratorium on telescope construction in the wake of more than a dozen arrests of protesters preventing construction vehicles from reaching the summit.
Mauna Kea's summit offers astronomers some of the world's best conditions for observing the sky. But many Native Hawaiians say telescopes desecrate a sacred place.
Follow Us
Oops, you haven't selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops, you didn't provide a valid email address. Please double-check the email field and submit again.
Sign up for email newsletters
5-Minute Herald (Monday - Friday) The best of the morning's Miami Herald.
Afternoon Update (Monday - Friday) Latest news, plus the afternoon business & national news.
News Alert (When it happens) the first to know when big news breaks.
Business (Monday - Friday) Keep up with local business news and small business advice.
Americas (Monday - Friday) Our best source for news and opinion on Cuba and the Americas.
Political Currents (Monday - Friday) Keep up with the latest in politics - in Florida, the nation, Latin America and the Caribbean.
Family Fare (Wednesdays) Have a family? Then this is your source for family friendly events, education news, health news and other important topics that parents need to know.
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

