NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
CHICAGO — By some measure, everything ended just as it had begun. After an unexpected and unprecedented runoff election in the nation’s third-largest city, Chicago’s brash mayor, Rahm Emanuel , was still Chicago’s mayor.
Yet the fallout for Mr. Emanuel from the past six weeks — a period of frenetic campaigning and humbling public self-examination — will be lasting. A tangible bloc of dissent has loudly made its case in a city where Mr. Emanuel and the mayors before him had often governed with little effective opposition and most aldermen in lock step.
Even given a decisive margin of victory in Tuesday’s election, the episode has raised a sense of vulnerability around his political career, and an expectation from some here that his second term in City Hall may look different, in style and perhaps substance, from the first.
Related Coverage
A chastened Mr. Emanuel on Tuesday night thanked the voters for “putting me through my paces,” and he promised to be a better mayor because of it, bringing voters’ voices and concerns into his office.
“People once thought he was untouchable, and no more,” said the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson Sr., the civil rights leader who had campaigned for Jesus G. Garcia, Mr. Emanuel’s opponent. “Some people respond by making adjustments,” Mr. Jackson said. “And that’s the question: Does Rahm try to make room for adjustments now? Or does he punish the people who opposed him?”
That question will be tested almost immediately on some of Chicago’s gravest issues — the very ones that proved most contentious during the election fight. No one here expects this to be a period of postelection quiet reconciliation or extended vacations. The city’s miserable pension situation, with unfunded obligations of about $20 billion, requires Chicago to pay an additional $550 million next year by state law, and, so far, there is no clear source for the money.
Public school teachers and their union, who were among those leading the charge against Mr. Emanuel and who went on strike after clashing with him over their current contract, are already in negotiations with Mr. Emanuel’s appointed school board for a new contract. The talks come even as the school system is sinking beneath the threat of a $1 billion budget deficit for the 2016 fiscal year and of its own pension woes, which include unfunded liabilities of an estimated $9 billion.
“Look, I would say we have an emergency and we have a crisis,” said Laurence J. Msall , the president of the Civic Federation, a nonpartisan research group. “The immediate challenge for the mayor now is to try to get the Illinois legislature and the governor to recognize how close to collapse the Chicago Public Schools and the city of Chicago are without help from the legislature.”
In many ways, the evolution of Mr. Emanuel’s dealings with the city’s public school teachers helps trace the roots of broader discord over his leadership since 2011, when he returned from working in President Obama’s White House and won his first mayoral election with relative ease and no runoff.
He infuriated teachers by demanding an increase in the length of the school day, saying that Chicago schoolchildren were getting “the shaft,” and tangling personally, foul language and all, with the head of the Chicago Teachers Union, Karen Lewis. The city’s first school strike in a quarter-century was over terms of the contract that ends this June, but some teachers said that it was Mr. Emanuel’s disrespectful approach, his arrogance and his bullheadedness that bothered them the most.
In recent weeks, after he was forced into this city’s first runoff since it began holding nonpartisan mayoral elections in 1999, Mr. Emanuel conceded that his famously brusque style may need a makeover — or at least a touch-up. In one ad, he wore a slouchy sweater as he looked into the camera and confided: “I can rub people the wrong way, or talk when I should listen. I own that.”
And at his victory party on Tuesday night, Mr. Emanuel sounded still more contrite, describing his re-election as a “second term and a second chance.”
“Chicago, I hear you,” Mr. Emanuel said before a loyal crowd inside a local union hall. “I’m proud of what we’ve accomplished these past four years, but I understand the challenges we face will require me to approach them differently and work in a different fashion. The only way to meet these challenges is to bridge the gaps between the things that have divided us and start focusing on the things that unite us and bring us together. We are the city that works, and that means it has to work for everyone.”
Still, Mr. Emanuel has by no means apologized for his policy decisions, including his move to close nearly 50 schools in largely black and Latino neighborhoods, his effort to require a longer school day or his push to require some city workers to pay more for pension benefits and to reduce the size of benefit increases. And his supporters say it is those difficult choices — and the sense they have that Mr. Emanuel will remain tough and unwavering on the city’s troubling financial issues — that clinched his victory.
In fact, voters who were focused on the city’s finances broke by more than two to one for Mr. Emanuel, according to exit poll results, while those concerned with schools and public education favored Mr. Garcia by a wide margin.
Mr. Emanuel was also helped, the exit polls conducted by Edison Research found, by support among women and men alike, voters age 45 and older, white voters and black voters — the latter being a group that he had courted heavily in recent weeks. Mr. Garcia was backed by about seven in 10 Hispanic voters, as well as a majority of voters with children in the Chicago Public Schools. Voters in union households were closely split.
Almost no voters said that having a likable personality was a candidate quality that mattered most in deciding their vote.
So political leaders were left to debate what a postelection Mr. Emanuel will look like, and whether the memories of this fight will leave a permanent mark on his style or, perhaps, even his agenda, which Mr. Garcia’s supporters contend lean too far to the right.
“That will be the threshold issue,” Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, said in an interview. “Will he be ‘sweater man,’ the man who said he could change? Or will he go back to vintage Rahm?”
Critics have groused over Mr. Emanuel’s snappishness, but also over a focus that they say has lavished attention over the past four years on business executives in the city’s Loop neighborhood to the detriment of ordinary Chicagoans.
Andy Shaw, the president of the Better Government Association, a watchdog group, said many people will be watching now to see if there are these hints of change: “Less bullying and more listening? More time in the neighborhoods and less in C-suites? More collaborative approaches to fiscal and pension reform?”
“He’ll have to deal with the new reality of a large and well-organized opposition faction that won’t go away and can’t be ignored,” Mr. Shaw said.
His friends and closest allies say that Mr. Emanuel has gotten the message, loud and clear — and not just until the polls closed on Tuesday night.
“I think that this has been a sobering experience for him, and it should be an enlightening experience for him,” said David Axelrod, a political strategist who has also been Mr. Emanuel’s close friend for decades. “He’s always going to be driven. That’s his nature. I think that what’s very clear is that people want him to be more inclusive. They want him to be more solicitous to their points of view. And he should do that. He’d be foolish not to.”
The negotiations with schoolteachers may be the first and clearest sign of what is to come. Some here are bracing for the possibility of another bitter standoff and strike in the fall, a ramping up of the fight that included the Chicago Teachers Union urging Mr. Garcia to enter the race and then rallying behind him.
“Some of the conditions that led to the strike — a tremendous sense of disrespect among teachers and a real ratcheting up of the work at the same time people felt they aren’t being given the tools to do the job — are still there,” said Jesse Sharkey, vice president of the Chicago Teachers Union.
Yet Mr. Sharkey suggested that the runoff had to have left its imprint. “Rahm in 2011 is not Rahm in 2015,” Mr. Sharkey said. “He really had to get off his high horse to win. And I think that, as his campaign has shown, there are ways he can act less imperious that can make his life easier.”
Chicago has rarely seen kinder, gentler mayors, or at least any who governed for long. Mr. Emanuel’s predecessor, Richard M. Daley, and his father, Richard J. Daley, presided over the city with a firm, demanding, sometimes grumpy grip for the better part of a half-century. Even if Mr. Emanuel could soften his sharp edges, some wonder whether anyone would really embrace that.
The Rev. Corey Brooks, a South Side minister, said he had endorsed Mr. Emanuel because he felt the mayor could tackle the city’s financial crisis and because he felt Mr. Emanuel could work more effectively with Gov. Bruce Rauner, a former private equity manager and the state’s first Republican governor in more than a decade.
“I don’t want a weak mayor,” Mr. Brooks said. “You have to have a little toughness in you in Chicago.”
David R. Jones and Dalia Sussman contributed reporting from New York.
Loading...

