Sign in
Richard Waters in San Francisco
Printed from: http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/528506d0-042a-11e5-8585-00144feabdc0.html
Print a single copy of this article for personal use. Contact us if you wish to print more to distribute to others.


Select Portfolio and Asset Combination for Display on Market Band
Select Portfolio
ET NOW RADIO
FREE ET MARKETS APP
BREAKING NEWS
Barack Obama administration asks US Supreme Court to decline Google copyright appeal
By Reuters | 27 May, 2015, 10.03AM IST
READ MORE ON » Washington | US Supreme Court | UN Court | San Francisco | Oracle US | Oracle Corp | obama administration
Oracle won a federal appeals court ruling last year that allows it to copyright parts of Java, while Google argues it should be free to use Java. 
The case involves how much copyright protection should extend to the Java programming language. Oracle won a federal appeals court ruling last year that allows it to copyright parts of Java, while Google argues it should be free to use Java without paying a licensing fee.
Google, which used Java to design its Android smartphone operating system, appealed to the US Supreme Court. The high court then asked the Obama administration in January for its opinion on whether it should take the case because the federal government has a strong interest.
The Federal Trade Commission , for instance, must ensure companies do not break antitrust laws when claiming software copyright protection against each other.
According to Google, an Oracle victory would obstruct "an enormous amount of innovation" because software developers would not be able to freely build on each others' work. But Oracle says effective copyright protection is the key to software innovation.
In the court filing on Tuesday, US Solicitor General Donald Verrilli said Google's argument that the code is not entitled to copyright protection lacks merit and did not need to be reviewed by the Supreme Court.
Verrilli added that Google had raised important concerns about the effect that enforcement of Oracle's copyright could have on software development, but said those issues could be addressed via further proceedings on Google's separate "fair use" defense in San Francisco federal court.
The Supreme Court could better assess the issues, Verrilli said, if it had all relevant legal arguments before it at the same time.
The Obama administration had been locked in internal wrangling over what position to take in the high-profile litigation between the two American technology companies.
Google has a close relationship with the Obama administration. However, there is no indication that the internal debate on software copyright involves any issues beyond legal policy.
The nine justices request that Verrilli, as the Obama administration's top lawyer before the Supreme Court, weigh in on about 20 cases a year in which the federal government has a strong interest.
The justices generally give greater weight to what a solicitor general says than other third parties that take a side in a case. This influence has caused the solicitor general to be dubbed the "10th justice."
The Supreme Court is expected to decide whether to hear the case by the end of its term in June.
"We appreciate the solicitor general's careful review of this issue, however we're disappointed with these conclusions," Google said in a statement.
Oracle said it was "pleased" with the recommendation, which "affirms the importance of copyright protection as an incentive for software innovation."
The case is Google v. Oracle, US Supreme Court, No. 14-410.
Stay on top of business news with The Economic Times App. Download it Now!
Ways Google can make your life easier
of 7
15 Apr, 2015
Text by: Karan Bajaj & Hitesh Bhagat
What if you get all the info you need for any internet related activity in one interface, without delay & without opening a bunch of different websites? That’s exactly what Google aims to do.
Find flight details
15 Apr, 2015
Find flight details
When you type in a flight number (eg: 6E 322, for Indigo 322 from Guwahati to Mumbai via Kolkata), Google will instantly tell you what time it left the origin, expected arrival time and other info like terminal/gate (if available). Check this when you’re going to receive someone at the airport.
Book hotels:Type in any hotel name & city to see a list of competitive room rates and ratings. You can click through to read reviews and if you know which hotel you want, proceed straight to checking the availability and booking your room.
Convert anything: The conversion engine is powerful. If you need instant currency conversions with the latest market rates, just type it. For instance, you can type 550 GBP to INR for Pounds to Indian Rupees. Or 100 USD to INR for US Dollars. If you don’t know the currency code, you can also get results by typing 100 US dollars to Indian Rupees. The same works for all sorts of unit conversions too.
Set a timer
15 Apr, 2015
Compare nutrition information: Weight watchers need to count calories and you can use Google to compare the calorific value of different foods. For instance, type hamburger vs spaghetti to get an instant comparison table on calories, carbs and vitamins for a specific amount of food.
Set a timer: Use the words ‘set a timer for’ or ‘timer 10 minutes’ to instantly set a timer within the browser. You can maximise the page for a full screen timer with large fonts (to be read across a room) or minimise the browser and keep working — it will beep once over.
Instant language translations: Google Translate offers lots of functionality, but if you only need a quick word or phrase translated, just use normal language to ask ‘can you help me in French’. Not only does it show you the text translation but also shows you how to speak it.
Play a quick game
15 Apr, 2015
Etymology: This is the study of words and their origin. Trivia nerds can just type etymology followed by the word that they need info for. You’ll get phonetics, meaning, origin, history, usage over time and the option to translate it into various languages.
Play a quick game: Type zerg rush into the search bar for a quick game. A swarm of O’s will come and attack the search results and you have to click on them to ‘kill’ them. In Google image search, type Atari breakout and play using the left-right keys.
A bit of fun: Type ‘tilt’ & search to see what happens. Or type ‘do a barrel roll’. Star Trek fans will enjoy Google Klingon and for a quick look at some of Google’s wacky extras, head to www.elgoog.im (I’m Google in reverse) — although the site is not really affiliated with Google. Here, you can see some of the classics like the snake game doodle, a playable Pac Man, the Les Paul playable guitar and gravity effects.
Check updated scores
15 Apr, 2015
Check updated scores for a game: To get scores for ongoing sporting events, search for the team name followed by ‘score’. It will also give you a quick look at the overall schedule of the team.
Get weather for any city: You can get a quick weather report (including a week’s forecast) for any city in the world by typing weather followed by the city name. Similarly you can also get the sunrise/sunset time of a city by typing Sunrise or Sunset before the city name.
Movie release dates: Add ‘release date’ in front of a movie name to find out when it is hitting the theatres in the US. If you want the release date for a specific country, add the country name after the movie name. You can also search for movie show times near you by typing ‘movie’ followed by city name.
Next
DON'T MISSany stories, follow ET Tech on Twitter Follow
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Browse Companies
Browse Mutual Funds
BACK TO TOP
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Others

