Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Here is what politicians representing Hudson County and other officials are saying about the federal indictment:
Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop:
"I'll express the same sentiments that I conveyed when we learned of a suspicious leak that started this conversation -- anyone who makes an assumption that discounts Bob Menendez is underestimating the senator, as he has proven to be a remarkable fighter on behalf of the residents of New Jersey, tackling international policy issues."
Rep. Albio Sires:
"Bob Menendez and I have worked together for years to improve the lives of New Jerseyans. When you look at his work, making laws that give working families the support that they need and ensuring that our communities have the resources they need, it's clear that he will never stop fighting for our state. All Americans, not just Senator Menendez, are entitled to a presumption of innocence. "
Bayonne Mayor Jimmy Davis
"During my time as mayor it has been an honor and privilege to share Bayonne's constituency with Bob Menendez. As a senator, he fights for us, is an advocate for Bayonne on the federal level, but, moreover, is a true friend and ally of all the people who call New Jersey home.
"With regard to these charges: They are an accusation. As Americans we are all entitled to the presumption of innocence and the impartiality of the justice system -- As such, I await and look forward to the resolution of his case."
Hudson County Executive Tom DeGise:
"Senator Menendez cares deeply about the people that he represents and has been a fierce advocate for them in Congress. Senator Menendez, as all Americans are, is entitled to a presumption of innocence. These charges are just an accusation and we have not seen all of the facts. I look forward to the resolution of his case."
State Sen. and North Bergen Mayor Nicholas Sacco:
"Mayor Sacco is saddened by this news and his thoughts are with Senator Menendez and his family. He has always considered Senator Menendez to be a very effective fighter for New Jersey and hopes that he will be able to continue his public service."
State Sen. and Union City Mayor Brian Stack:
"I stand with Senator Menendez, recognizing the positive impact that he continues to have on our working class residents. Like all Americans, the senator is entitled to a presumption of innocence. The public should question motives after reflecting on how this matter unraveled."
Nick Chiaravalloti, New
Jersey Assembly candidate and Menendez's former state director:
"Everyone deserves the presumption of innocence. I look forward to a speedy conclusion to the process."
Rep. Donald M. Payne Jr.:
"Throughout my career in government, I've had the opportunity to see, firsthand, the benefits of the work Bob Menendez has done on behalf of New Jerseyans. I have known the senator for many years. He had a great relationship with my father. I look forward to continuing my positive working relationship with Senator Menendez."
Hispanic Bar Association of New Jersey President Michael J. Plata:
"We are confident that Senator Menendez will remain committed to the advancement of all people regardless of age, color, ethnicity, or creed, and we stand ready to continue to work with him on our shared goal of making our nation more inclusive."
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie:
The governor said in statement there is no reason "for me or anybody else to get ahead of ourselves."
U.S. Sen. Cory Booker:
"Senator Menendez has never wavered in his commitment to the people of New Jersey. He's been an invaluable resource and a mentor to me since I arrived in the Senate. Our system of justice is designed to be fair and impartial, and it presumes innocence before guilt. I won't waiver in my commitment to stand alongside my senior senator to serve our great state. Our nation and state face critical issues and I will continue to partner with Senator Menendez to take on the challenges before you."
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

