Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
John McCain makes bid official for 6th Senate term
PHOENIX — Sen. John McCain made his intent official Tuesday: The Arizona Republican is seeking a sixth term. In announcing his bid, the former Vietnam prisoner of war highlighted his high-profile role as
Post to Facebook
John McCain makes bid official for 6th Senate term PHOENIX — Sen. John McCain made his intent official Tuesday: The Arizona Republican is seeking a sixth term. In announcing his bid, the former Vietnam prisoner of war highlighted his high-profile role as Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1FyC1Mm
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
John McCain makes bid official for 6th Senate term
Dan Nowicki, The Arizona Republic 4:43 p.m. EDT April 7, 2015
McCain running for Re-election.
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., made it official April 7, 2015: He will run in 2016 for a sixth term.
(Photo: Michael Schennum, The Arizona Republic)
In announcing his bid, the former Vietnam prisoner of war highlighted his high-profile role as Senate Armed Services Committee chairman as well as work on legislation to reform the scandal-plagued U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
"Over the last several years, Arizonans have been rightly frustrated with a wasteful, incompetent federal government bent on expanding its reach and power — from Obamacare to excessive financial and environmental regulation," McCain told a luncheon hosted by the Arizona Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the Arizona Biltmore, the same central Phoenix resort where on Nov. 4, 2008, he conceded the presidential race to Democratic rival Barack Obama.
"I've fought against those excesses and have the scars to prove it," he said. "And I'll keep fighting. Quitting is not in my nature."
Through the years McCain, 78, has supported comprehensive immigration reform and taken other positions that some conservative Republicans oppose. He is considered a potential target of national tea-party-aligned groups such as the Club for Growth, FreedomWorks and the Senate Conservatives Fund.
McCain would turn 80 before Election Day 2016.
"The greater threat to him, obviously, is in the primary," said Larry Sabato, director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia. "Given his age and the intense criticism that the tea-party conservatives aim at him, he should take nothing for granted."
Bruce Merrill, a veteran Arizona political scientist who has followed McCain's political career from the start, agreed that McCain will have problems with conservative Republicans and possibly with "an awful lot of people who are just kind of disgusted with politics, with incumbents, and what's going on in Washington."
"I don't think his age is as much of a factor as it is that he has been in for such a long time," said Merrill, an Arizona State University professor emeritus and senior research fellow at ASU's Morrison Institute for Public Policy. "So he's got some things that he's got to deal with, but I just don't think that it's anything that he can't manage. He's going to have as much money as he needs."
McCain's campaign raised $1.6 million in January, February and March and will report $3.6 million cash on hand, according to a campaign aide.
Other positives: His seniority; influence; and chairmanship of the Armed Services Committee, one of the most prominent jobs on Capitol Hill, Merrill said.
"On paper, I just don't see that he could be defeated," Merrill said. "On the other hand, we live in a time where it only takes one slip."
“On paper, I just don't see that he could be defeated. On the other hand, we live in a time where it only takes one slip.”
Bruce Merrill, Arizona State University
First elected to the Senate in 1986, McCain already is among Arizona's longest-serving U.S. senators, behind Democratic Sen. Carl Hayden, who served from 1927 to 1969, Republican Sen. Barry Goldwater, who served from 1953 to 1965 and from 1969 to 1987, and Democratic Sen. Henry Ashurst, who served from 1912 until 1941.
Hayden served a then-unprecedented seven Senate terms, retiring at age 91.
McCain hopes to avoid what happened to Goldwater in his final Senate race in 1980. Goldwater narrowly avoided an upset loss to Democratic challenger Bill Schulz. That nail-biter election took 20 hours to call.
Goldwater, who was struggling with health issues at that point in his career, later admitted that his initial complacency nearly cost him the race.
More recently, veteran Sen. Thad Cochran, R-Miss., also faltered and last year nearly lost to a tea-party opponent. In 2012, a conservative rival ousted Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., in his primary.
Those case studies reflect the danger faced by longtime incumbents who lose touch with their constituents, Sabato said.
"When you've run a lot of times and you've served for a long period of time, you have to be aware of the possibility of an upset loss," he said. "You never want to come across as arrogant."
McCain has studied Goldwater's final race and has kept close tabs on other Senate campaigns around the country since the tea-party revolution shook the Republican establishment in 2010. He noted that last year even vulnerable GOP incumbents such as Cochran were able to survive aggressive primary challenges.
"The reason those people in 2010 got beat (by tea-party challengers) was because they took things for granted," McCain said. "In 2014, people were ready."
My fellow Arizonans, I'm running for re-election to the US Senate. Join today: http://t.co/HUcJCMsDBY #FightForAZ https://t.co/L27mAoKkM6
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1FyC1Mm
USA NOW
Apr 07, 2015

