Opinion
 U.S. Republican Senate candidate Marco Rubio (R) shakes hands former Florida Governor Jeb Bush as he celebrates his victory at a rally in Coral Gables, Florida November 2, 2010. REUTERS/Hans Deryk (UNITED STATES - Tags: ELECTIONS POLITICS) - RTXU56T   
The No-Nonsense GOP Presidential Primary Ranking
11:12 PM  04/09/2015
Jamie Weinstein
Jamie Weinstein is Senior Editor of The Daily Caller. His work has appeared in The Weekly Standard, the New York Daily News and The Washington Examiner, among many other publications. He also worked as the Collegiate Network Journalism Fellow at Roll Call Newspaper and is the winner of the 2011 "Funniest Celebrity in Washington" contest. A regular on Fox News and other cable news outlets, Weinstein received a master’s degree in the history of international relations from the London School of Economics in 2009 and a bachelor's degree in history and government from Cornell University in 2006. He is the author of the political satire, "The Lizard King: The Shocking Inside Account of Obama's True Intergalactic Ambitions by an Anonymous White House Staffer."
With Rand Paul and Ted Cruz both officially entering the Republican presidential race over the last week — and Marco Rubio expected to enter the race Monday — the political world is abuzz with the 2016 horserace.
Sure, theoretically, any one of the 16 million or so potential Republican contenders could win the nomination — you can never entirely rule out a Pataki-Huckabee ticket or a Trump-Santorum tag team. But in reality, if we’re honest with ourselves, there are only really four potential GOP contenders who have a serious shot of being the GOP nominee (with maybe a couple of dark horses).
Keep in mind: This is not to say that those who don’t have a chance at actually winning the nomination can’t win a state or two, or do better than some of the candidates who do have the potential to win it all.
The Serious Contenders For The Nomination 
1st Tier
1.) Jeb Bush: By virtue of the outrageously large sums of money he appears to be raising, Bush must be considered to be the frontrunner for the nomination — or, at least, co-frontrunner. That doesn’t mean he will be the nominee, but he is building an impressive campaign team and cash will not be a problem for the former Florida governor. What’s more, Bush has a good record to run on: Even current critics are forced to recognize he was a very capable and very conservative governor  of one of the largest states in the country. I am skeptical his stance on immigration will hurt him too badly — most of the potential 2016 contenders support now or have supported in the recent past some type of pathway to legalization for illegal immigrants, and I don’t think GOP voters are as obsessed with the issue as some conservative radio show hosts. Common Core could be a bigger problem, though Bush can argue he never supported its federalization. But his biggest problem could be his name: Do GOP voters want to elect yet another Bush? Maybe, if he can convince them that he is the best candidate. But Jeb has to make sure he doesn’t become Jon Huntsman. He can’t pander to the left by kicking the GOP base. (May I suggest a series of interviews with The Daily Caller instead of Esquire, a la Huntsman?) But even as other candidates rise and fall, Bush is remaining steady  at or near the top of the polls, both nationally and in all the early primary states, even as he regularly gets beat up as a squishy moderate by talk radio. I suspect the more people hear about Jeb’s actual record, the more they will like him — even the staunchest conservatives. As George Will recently noted, given his record, if Jeb Bush “is called a threat to conservatism, Republicans are with Alice in Wonderland.”
2.) Marco Rubio: If only Marco Rubio had executive experience. That’s the Florida senator’s main downside in the age of Obama. Nonetheless, Rubio is extremely attractive as a presidential contender, even if national and state polls don’t quite yet reflect it. He is far and away the best and most inspiring speaker among the potential Republican presidential aspirants. Though born here, he has an immigrant’s understanding of America as a land of immense opportunity. At a time when the world is falling apart, he has a strong grasp of foreign affairs. Unlike Mitt Romney, Rubio doesn’t come off as stiff. You get the sense that he would feel comfortable no matter what room he was in — be it at a Koch brothers’ summit or a NAACP convention. Will his support for the Gang of Eight’s immigration bill hurt him? I say not much. A recent Wall Street Journal poll indicated that more Republicans were willing to at least consider voting for Rubio than any other candidate. Poised, confident and polished, Rubio very well may capture the nomination. But he has to convincingly answer the question of why he is best qualified to be president, especially considering his lack of executive and private sector experience. He can’t get pigeonholed as the Republican Obama — a masterful speaker without the needed substance and experience to lead the country.
3.) Scott Walker:  The Wisconsin governor has the ability to win over both those who hate the so-called “establishment” and those who identify as the “establishment.” As governor of Wisconsin, he has made tough conservative decisions and weathered the tempest that resulted from them. If the GOP electorate is looking for a governor with a fresh face, Walker is obviously a top contender. But is he ready for the national stage? The verdict is still out.
4.) Chris Christie:  Once seen by many as the frontrunner for the Republican nomination in 2016, Christie has had a precipitous fall. It started with Bridgegate. Though no one has ever proven that Christie directly ordered his subordinate to shutdown several lanes of the George Washington Bridge as political retribution, by the standard President Barack Obama is held to by conservatives, it is hard not to blame Christie for at least creating a culture where such an action seemed permissible. Christie was once seen as a bully for the people — Bridgegate threatens to change that image into a bully against the people. Beyond that unfortunate scandal, there are also New Jersey’s economic problems, including multiple credit downgrades for the state . None of this is helpful to Christie’s likely 2016 run. And yet, don’t count a Christie comeback out. If Bush and Walker falter, Christie is the governor waiting in the wings so long as no other scandal surfaces. He is a formidable political talent. I don’t buy for a moment that his New Jersey tough guy act can’t sell across the country, as some commentators like to argue . In fact, it’s that New Jersey tough guy persona that made him a conservative superstar all over the country in the first place. So Christie may be down — but he is not quite out yet.
2nd Tier
5.) Mitt Romney:  After flirting with a run at the beginning of the year, the 2012 Republican nominee now says he has no intention of entering the race this time around and he seems sincere about it. Even so, he still has a better chance than most of the other potential 2016 contenders. If the aforementioned top tier candidates falter, Romney could enter the race late to — as some in the party would surely see it — save the day.
6.) Rick Perry:  I can’t believe I’m writing this, but there is a faint chance Rick Perry could be the GOP nominee. Back in 2012, I thought Perry would never be able to look his children and grandchildren in the eyes again after his disastrous presidential run, much less be a contender in 2016. But the three-term Texas governor seems like a new man these days. He’s boned up on policy, appears relaxed and confident in his public appearances, and seems to no longer have memory problems. If Jeb Bush turns out to be Jon Huntsman redux, Scott Walker turns out to be not ready for primetime, Marco Rubio loses his speaking ability ( and/or his hair ), one of Chris Christie’s advisers shuts down another bridge and Mitt Romney really does prefer spending his time  boxing former heavyweight champions, Perry will be there, waiting to steal the nomination. It probably won’t happen. But it could!

