Search
Photo
1 Pierrepont Plaza in Brooklyn Heights, as seen from Clinton Street. Hillary Rodham Clinton has leased office space in the building.Credit Sam Hodgson for The New York Times
Hillary Rodham Clinton has leased two floors of office space at 1 Pierrepont Plaza in Brooklyn for her presidential campaign headquarters, according to a person familiar with the deal.
The agreement will put Mrs. Clinton’s political hub on the edge of Brooklyn Heights and the borough’s civic center, and just a short subway ride from Manhattan.
The person who described the lease did so on the condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to discuss it publicly. Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, declined to comment.
Signing the lease, which was first reported by Politico, effectively starts the clock on when Mrs. Clinton will have to file candidacy papers with the Federal Election Commission. Prospective office-holders have 15 days from engaging in campaign activities to register a committee. It was not immediately clear when the lease agreement had been signed, or who or what entity was listed as the tenant, but Mrs. Clinton is expected to announce her candidacy in the coming days.
Among the other tenants in 1 Pierrepont Plaza are Morgan Stanley and the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, Loretta E. Lynch, President Obama’s nominee for attorney general.
The office building, like many others in the area, is owned by Forest City Ratner Companies, whose chairman, Bruce C. Ratner, is a prolific Democratic donor. Mr. Ratner developed the Barclays Center, an arena that was the centerpiece of New York’s unsuccessful bid to be the host of the Democratic National Convention in 2016.
Mrs. Clinton had also considered another Forest City Ratner property a ferw blocks away, at the Metro Tech complex. But the building she chose may have had an unfair advantage: It is bounded on the west by Clinton Street.
About First Draft
First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com .
Politics Newsletter
We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.

