Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
How LeBron James is keeping Browns' Johnny Manziel out of trouble
Johnny Manziel
Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel smiles during an organized team activity on Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Berea, Ohio. (AP Photo | David Richard)
This year? The Browns' supposedly reformed second-year quarterback spent the weekend in Cleveland, babysat by teammates and LeBron James' inner circle, including business partner Maverick Carter.
"[Carter has] taken a big responsibility in making sure that Johnny's doing all the right things,'' Browns safety Donte Whitner said via Cleveland.com after the first day of organized team activities on Tuesday. "(Manziel) has a mentor, somebody to talk to, certain things that he really didn't have the ability (to do) or somebody to talk to before. It looks like it's working out so far.''
Carter and James are partners in LRMR, the marketing firm that represents Manziel. Together, they have played nanny to Manziel, who was released from inpatient rehab in April. When Manziel has been spotted in public since then, he usually has teammates Joe Haden or Whitner, or Carter as a conscience and a wingman, keeping him out of trouble and out of compromising photos.
"We don't really have to say anything,'' Whitner said. "He's been doing that any way. I remember last (year) they made a big fuss about Johnny being in Vegas for Memorial Day weekend. Johnny was here in Cleveland for Memorial Day weekend this year. So that's another step that he's taken.
"He understands that you can't be in Vegas or Miami or any of these other places, you have to be here. If you have to come in a day or two extra for an hour or two per day, that's what quarterbacks do. And no matter if you like it, you have to be here.''
Whitner says Manziel finally has grasped how his image as a partier was hurting his career.
"First of all, Johnny's a very young guy,'' Whitner said. "He understands the mistakes that he's made, so he's taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of the trouble. From being out or people seeing him somewhere and saying 'Johnny's doing this, Johnny's doing that' and now he understands how serious it is. He'll be all right.
"Today was our first day being out here, but I could tell you one thing, he was here 100 percent of the time in offseason workouts, from conditioning and running and lifting, putting extra time in. Everything off the field and the things he's supposed to be doing, he's really doing. So hopefully that translates to him going out there, making plays and becoming the quarterback that we think he can become and that he wants to become.''
 
Don't Miss: Sports mobile apps!
Sports Essentials
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

