Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
How LeBron James is keeping Browns' Johnny Manziel out of trouble
Johnny Manziel
Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel smiles during an organized team activity on Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Berea, Ohio. (AP Photo | David Richard)
This year? The Browns' supposedly reformed second-year quarterback spent the weekend in Cleveland, babysat by teammates and LeBron James' inner circle, including business partner Maverick Carter.
"[Carter has] taken a big responsibility in making sure that Johnny's doing all the right things,'' Browns safety Donte Whitner said via Cleveland.com after the first day of organized team activities on Tuesday. "(Manziel) has a mentor, somebody to talk to, certain things that he really didn't have the ability (to do) or somebody to talk to before. It looks like it's working out so far.''
Carter and James are partners in LRMR, the marketing firm that represents Manziel. Together, they have played nanny to Manziel, who was released from inpatient rehab in April. When Manziel has been spotted in public since then, he usually has teammates Joe Haden or Whitner, or Carter as a conscience and a wingman, keeping him out of trouble and out of compromising photos.
"We don't really have to say anything,'' Whitner said. "He's been doing that any way. I remember last (year) they made a big fuss about Johnny being in Vegas for Memorial Day weekend. Johnny was here in Cleveland for Memorial Day weekend this year. So that's another step that he's taken.
"He understands that you can't be in Vegas or Miami or any of these other places, you have to be here. If you have to come in a day or two extra for an hour or two per day, that's what quarterbacks do. And no matter if you like it, you have to be here.''
Whitner says Manziel finally has grasped how his image as a partier was hurting his career.
"First of all, Johnny's a very young guy,'' Whitner said. "He understands the mistakes that he's made, so he's taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of the trouble. From being out or people seeing him somewhere and saying 'Johnny's doing this, Johnny's doing that' and now he understands how serious it is. He'll be all right.
"Today was our first day being out here, but I could tell you one thing, he was here 100 percent of the time in offseason workouts, from conditioning and running and lifting, putting extra time in. Everything off the field and the things he's supposed to be doing, he's really doing. So hopefully that translates to him going out there, making plays and becoming the quarterback that we think he can become and that he wants to become.''
 
Don't Miss: Sports mobile apps!
Sports Essentials
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.


Associated Press
Posted:   05/26/2015 09:08:39 PM PDT
Updated:   05/26/2015 09:08:39 PM PDT
For the first time since a highly publicized, 10-week stay at a rehab facility in Pennsylvania this winter, quarterback Johnny Manziel practiced in Berea, Ohio, in front of journalists on Tuesday as the Cleveland Browns moved into the next phase of their offseason program.
The 22-year-old, who played poorly in two starts last season and then sought treatment for an unspecified issue, did not speak with reporters afterward.
However, several of his teammates gave glowing reports on Manziel. They've been impressed with his determination to change a party-boy image following a bad rookie year.
"He understands the mistakes that he's made, so he's taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of trouble," Browns safety and former 49er Donte Whitner said. "Now he understands how serious it is. He'll be all right."
Miami Dolphins attendance is on the rise. Ndamukong Suh showed up for practice. The $114 million defensive tackle drew attention for his absence from offseason training sessions in recent weeks, but he was on the field with the rest of his new teammates for the Dolphins' first organized team activity.
Brian Burke believes the Montreal Alouettes signing of Michael Sam is a tipping point in professional sports. The Calgary Flames president of hockey operations, who co-founded You Can Play in memory of his late son, says the arrival of the openly gay player in the CFL will be a watershed moment.
Advertisement
"I think it's huge," Burke told The Canadian Press. "To me, this is one of those 20, 30, 40 years from now, people will look back and say 'remember when Michael Sam signed with the Alouettes?' "
Horse racing
Trainer Bob Baffert was pleased with Kentucky Derby and Preakness winner American Pharoah's workout in Louisville, Kentucky, as he prepares for the Belmont Stakes and his attempt to become horse racing's first Triple Crown winner since 1978. The colt breezed four furlongs in :48 at Churchill Downs after Baffert and American Pharoah's regular exercise rider, jockey Martin Garcia, flew to Kentucky for the work.
Motor sports
Conor Daly will replace James Hinchcliffe for this weekend's doubleheader in Detroit. Daly will drive the No. 5 for Schmidt Peterson Motorsports at Belle Isle Raceway on Saturday and Sunday. Hinchcliffe has been hospitalized since suffering a life-threatening leg injury during a crash practicing for the Indianapolis 500 on May 18.
Track and field
Usain Bolt cruised to victory in the 200 meters race at the Golden Spike meet in Ostrava, Czech Republic, as the Jamaican star prepares for the world championships. The six-time Olympic champion came out of the bend slightly ahead and breezed unchallenged to victory, crossing the line in 20.13.
Cycling
Alberto Contador put on a demonstration of his climbing skills on the steep Mortirolo pass and extended his lead in the 16th stage of the Giro d'Italia. Spanish rider Mikel Landa posted his second consecutive stage victory after getting clearance from the Astana team to leave behind captain Fabio Aru, who again struggled.

