Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
How LeBron James is keeping Browns' Johnny Manziel out of trouble
Johnny Manziel
Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel smiles during an organized team activity on Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Berea, Ohio. (AP Photo | David Richard)
This year? The Browns' supposedly reformed second-year quarterback spent the weekend in Cleveland, babysat by teammates and LeBron James' inner circle, including business partner Maverick Carter.
"[Carter has] taken a big responsibility in making sure that Johnny's doing all the right things,'' Browns safety Donte Whitner said via Cleveland.com after the first day of organized team activities on Tuesday. "(Manziel) has a mentor, somebody to talk to, certain things that he really didn't have the ability (to do) or somebody to talk to before. It looks like it's working out so far.''
Carter and James are partners in LRMR, the marketing firm that represents Manziel. Together, they have played nanny to Manziel, who was released from inpatient rehab in April. When Manziel has been spotted in public since then, he usually has teammates Joe Haden or Whitner, or Carter as a conscience and a wingman, keeping him out of trouble and out of compromising photos.
"We don't really have to say anything,'' Whitner said. "He's been doing that any way. I remember last (year) they made a big fuss about Johnny being in Vegas for Memorial Day weekend. Johnny was here in Cleveland for Memorial Day weekend this year. So that's another step that he's taken.
"He understands that you can't be in Vegas or Miami or any of these other places, you have to be here. If you have to come in a day or two extra for an hour or two per day, that's what quarterbacks do. And no matter if you like it, you have to be here.''
Whitner says Manziel finally has grasped how his image as a partier was hurting his career.
"First of all, Johnny's a very young guy,'' Whitner said. "He understands the mistakes that he's made, so he's taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of the trouble. From being out or people seeing him somewhere and saying 'Johnny's doing this, Johnny's doing that' and now he understands how serious it is. He'll be all right.
"Today was our first day being out here, but I could tell you one thing, he was here 100 percent of the time in offseason workouts, from conditioning and running and lifting, putting extra time in. Everything off the field and the things he's supposed to be doing, he's really doing. So hopefully that translates to him going out there, making plays and becoming the quarterback that we think he can become and that he wants to become.''
 
Don't Miss: Sports mobile apps!
Sports Essentials
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.


Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Browns' Alex Mack acknowledges winning will be a factor in if he stays or goes
Mike Pettine talks at Browns OTAs Browns head coach Mike Pettine talks about the first practice of OTAs, Johnny Manziel, Josh McCown and the absence of No. 12 overall pick Danny Shelton.
BEREA, Ohio -- Browns center Alex Mack is happy to talk about the state of the offensive line, Johnny Manziel or even his recent NFL-OSU tour.
But try getting him to talk about his contract situation and he clams up.
"I'm going to defer,'' he said. "I'll talk about that at the end of the season.''
Mack, who missed the final 11 games of last season with a  broken leg, can opt out of his five-year, $42 million contract at the end of this season after only two years. If so, he'll leave three years at $8 million on the table, including a fully guaranteed base salary for 2016.
But he did acknowledge he hasn't made up his mind yet.
"No, absolutely not,'' he said. "Let's play the games, let's see how the season goes. I'm really not interested in talking about that until after the season.''
Mack did acknowledge that winning will factor into his decision. In his six years here, he's never experienced a winning season, and the Browns have won five or fewer games in five of his six campaigns.  This season, he's working with his fifth offensive coordinator and sixth playcaller.
"I definitely want to win games,'' he said. "It's very important to me. No one likes losing. Across any job, anything, at all times. It's tough, without a doubt.
So what does he need to see to want to come back for 2016?
"What you always do, you just want to come out here, play games, play well and win games,'' he said. "That's what every person in this building's goal is.''
Mack downplayed the significance of the Browns using their No. 19 overall pick on Florida State offensive lineman Cameron Erving, who can start at center if Mack opts out.
"Having depth is something really important,'' he said. "Having good people on the field no matter where they are, best available kind of player, I think they liked him, I think they liked the versatility he's able to play. He's played a lot of different positions. Just having another guy who's a real smart guy, very talented is going to help your team in general.''
 Mack said he'll share all of his center wisdom with Erving, who's been working at various positions on the line.
"Being a good teammate and being a good person is to help everyone on the O-line and your whole team,'' Mack said.
Mack, who broke his fibula Oct. 12 against the Steelers, participated in individual drills during organized team activities Tuesday, but sat out 7-on-7s and 11-on-11s. Right guard John Greco slid over to fill his spot, and Erving subbed for Greco. Mack is expected to be full-go for training camp in July.
"Alex is ready to go,'' said coach Mike Pettine. "I'm sure he'll tell you that, but that's just something where we just want to probably be a lot more conservative with it. He'll be able to do anything where there's no risk of a collision or getting tripped up.''
The Browns offense gradually went south after Mack went down last year to the point of a five-game losing streak to end the season.
"It's typical if you're doing a really good job running the ball, I think it's really natural for a defense to devote a fair amount of their defense to stop the run,'' he said. "So I expected to see something like that, because they're going to load the box and you're going to have to throw it. It's just something I don't think handled as well as we could have.''
Mack's loss illustrated just how valuable he is to the team.
 
What's more, his relentless rehab has been an inspiration to his teammates.
"Obviously, with Alex's tenacity and his work ethic -- I think that's something you see in how he plays the game,'' said Schwartz. "He's always getting after guys and finishing. So you knew he was going to get after his rehab the same way. I don't think there was really any doubt he was going to be ready to go for the season, and with a guy like that, the end game is really being ready for August, it's not necessarily being ready for OTAs."
Greco is eager to have the Pro Bowler back manning the middle.
"He's kind of shattered expectations as you would expect,'' he said. "He's a pro. He's going to come back stronger and better than ever, I'm sure, and we're happy he's back."
Greco on Erving:  The addition of Erving means that either Greco or Schwartz could be the odd man out this year.
 "This isn't the first time we've drafted a lineman high,'' said Greco. "People are like, 'Oh, well, you're benched or you're gone.' It just creates competition. I have to play hard no matter what. I have to essentially act like there's a first-round draft pick every year. You can't just become satisfied. There's never been a point in my career where I'm like, 'OK, I'm the guy. There's no one knocking on the door behind me. This is just me and you can relax.' Because when you do that, you're going to play bad. So I just try to play my game no matter what the outside situations are and go from there."
Duke Johnson, Craig Robertson absent: linebacker Craig Robertson and rookie running back Duke Johnson were both absent from voluntary OTAs Tuesday, and Pettine said both had travel issues because of the floods in Houston. Johnson remains the only unsigned draft pick of the 12...Unrestricted free agent Tashaun Gipson is still skipping the voluntary workouts while he remains unsigned.
Injuries: Barkevious Mingo, recovering from surgery to repair a torn labrum, practiced on a limited basis with a red caution jersey on. Phil Taylor took a few team reps wearing a right knee brace, but moved well. Center Nick McDonald wore a sleeve on his lower leg and rode the bike. Rookie Vince Mayle (surgically-repaired thumb) was idle and will most likely remain out until training camp. Rookie tight end Randall Telfer (surgically-repaired) will be out for awhile. Defensive end Armonty Bryant, recovering from a torn ACL, is limited to individual drills.
Pettine on Danny Shelton: Pettine acknowledged that No. 12 overall pick Danny Shelton will have to catch up after missing all 10 OTA practices while preparing to graduate from Washington with his anthropology degree on June 14th.
"There's just no substitute for being in the meetings and being around your teammates and just kind of learning the ropes of the NFL early on,'' said Pettine. "You just can't substitute that. I wouldn't say it's going to put him behind tremendously. He'll have access to all the stuff that we're doing, from a playbook standpoint. It's one of those rules. It's tough, those guys that are really at a disadvantage that are at those quarter-system schools."
 But the Browns knew when they drafted Shelton that they'd have to wait for him.
"Sure, you would never let that be a determining factor,'' he said. "By the time we get to a little bit into training camp, it'll be an afterthought."
Browns sign Eric Olsen and Mike Reilly:  The Browns signed veteran offensive lineman Eric Olsen  and rookie linebacker Mike Reilly.
Olsen (6-4, 306) is originally a sixth round pick of the Broncos in 2010 out of Notre Dame. Olsen has appeared in 23 games with four starts. Last season, he appeared in games with five games for Tennessee and one for New Orleans (one).
Reilly (6-3, 261) participated in the Browns' rookie minicamp on May 8-10 on a tryout basis. He finished second at the College of William & Mary's with 27 career sacks, including 11 last season.
The Browns on Tuesday waived LB Keith Pough with an injury designation (hamstring) and waived DL Calvin Barnett.
Browns Writers
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for your subscription
We look forward to sharing with you some of the great content found on cleveland.com.   To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Best of cleveland.com
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy
cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

