Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
How LeBron James is keeping Browns' Johnny Manziel out of trouble
Johnny Manziel
Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel smiles during an organized team activity on Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Berea, Ohio. (AP Photo | David Richard)
This year? The Browns' supposedly reformed second-year quarterback spent the weekend in Cleveland, babysat by teammates and LeBron James' inner circle, including business partner Maverick Carter.
"[Carter has] taken a big responsibility in making sure that Johnny's doing all the right things,'' Browns safety Donte Whitner said via Cleveland.com after the first day of organized team activities on Tuesday. "(Manziel) has a mentor, somebody to talk to, certain things that he really didn't have the ability (to do) or somebody to talk to before. It looks like it's working out so far.''
Carter and James are partners in LRMR, the marketing firm that represents Manziel. Together, they have played nanny to Manziel, who was released from inpatient rehab in April. When Manziel has been spotted in public since then, he usually has teammates Joe Haden or Whitner, or Carter as a conscience and a wingman, keeping him out of trouble and out of compromising photos.
"We don't really have to say anything,'' Whitner said. "He's been doing that any way. I remember last (year) they made a big fuss about Johnny being in Vegas for Memorial Day weekend. Johnny was here in Cleveland for Memorial Day weekend this year. So that's another step that he's taken.
"He understands that you can't be in Vegas or Miami or any of these other places, you have to be here. If you have to come in a day or two extra for an hour or two per day, that's what quarterbacks do. And no matter if you like it, you have to be here.''
Whitner says Manziel finally has grasped how his image as a partier was hurting his career.
"First of all, Johnny's a very young guy,'' Whitner said. "He understands the mistakes that he's made, so he's taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of the trouble. From being out or people seeing him somewhere and saying 'Johnny's doing this, Johnny's doing that' and now he understands how serious it is. He'll be all right.
"Today was our first day being out here, but I could tell you one thing, he was here 100 percent of the time in offseason workouts, from conditioning and running and lifting, putting extra time in. Everything off the field and the things he's supposed to be doing, he's really doing. So hopefully that translates to him going out there, making plays and becoming the quarterback that we think he can become and that he wants to become.''
 
Don't Miss: Sports mobile apps!
Sports Essentials
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.


Cleveland Browns notes: Johnny Manziel earning strong reviews
Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel tosses his helmet during an NFL football organized team activity, Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Berea, Ohio. (AP Photo/David Richard)
By Jeff Schudel , The News-Herald & The Morning Journal
Posted:
Praise continues to pour in for the improved and reformed Johnny Manziel, and the proof is on the field.
Manziel took snaps with the second team May 26 as the Browns began Organized Team Activities for the second year under coach Mike Pettine. Earlier this month, Pettine said Manziel was dividing reps evenly with Connor Shaw and Thad Lewis.
“It’s just a coach’s decision based on how those guys came out of Phase Two,” said Pettine, referring to the offseason program before the start of OTAs. “I don’t want to get into grading specific plays today. I have a little better feel for it now, having been in a lot of those meetings. He’s been very engaged in the meetings. It’s good to see a lot of stuff carried over from the meetings out onto the field, and not just for him but for all the quarterbacks.
“I just feel much better … from that room a better sense of urgency and much more attention to detail.”
Advertisement
Manziel has not met with the media since the day after the 2014 season ended. He checked into the Caron Addiction Treatment Center in Pennsylvania on Jan. 28 and stayed there for 70 days. Players who were around Manziel last year say he is a different player now.
“We don’t really have to say anything,’’ safety Donte Whitner said after practice. ”He’s been doing that any way. I remember last (year) they made a big fuss about Johnny being in Vegas for Memorial Day Weekend. Johnny was here in Cleveland for Memorial Day weekend this year. So that’s another step that he’s taken.”
Manziel is good friends with LeBron James. Whitner said Maverick Carter, James’ close friend and business adviser, is guiding Manziel as the Browns quarterback tries to get his life in order.
“He’s taken a big responsibility in making sure that Johnny’s doing all the right things,’’ Whitner said. “(Manziel) has a mentor, somebody to talk to, certain things that he really didn’t have the ability (to do) or somebody to talk to before. It looks like it’s working out so far.’’
Manziel had a mixed day in practice, as most players did. He showed a nice touch on a deep pass to Rodney Smith. Another pass was behind Andrew Hawkins and picked off by defensive back K’Waun Williams.
School comes first
Top draft pick Danny Shelton, a nose tackle, is not participating in the OTAs because Washington is still in class. NFL rules prohibit a rookie from attending OTAs before his school year ends.
“There’s just no substitute for being in the meetings and being around your teammates and just kind of learning the ropes of the NFL early on,” Pettine said. “You just can’t substitute that. I wouldn’t say it’s going to put him behind tremendously. He’ll have access to all the stuff that we’re doing, from a playbook standpoint. It’s one of those rules. It’s tough, those guys that are really at a disadvantage that are at those quarter-system schools.”
Shelton signed a four-year contract earlier this month.
Notes
Rookie running back Duke Johnson was absent from camp because of travel issues from Miami, Pettine said. ... Linebacker Craig Robertson is stuck in Houston because of the flooding in Texas. … Linebacker Barkevious Mingo is recovering from shoulder surgery and wore a red jersey to signify no contact. … Defensive lineman Phil Taylor wore a brace on his right knee and practiced lightly. ... Free safety Tashaun Gipson is still working out on his own in Dallas because he is unhappy with his contract situation. Jordan Poyer replaced Gipson with the first team.
About the Author
Jeff has covered the Cleveland Browns since 1981. He also covers the Lake Erie Monsters of the American Hockey League and the Cleveland Gladiators in the Arena Football League. Reach the author at jschudel@news-herald.com or follow Jeff on Twitter: @jsbrownsinsider .

