Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
How LeBron James is keeping Browns' Johnny Manziel out of trouble
Johnny Manziel
Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel smiles during an organized team activity on Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Berea, Ohio. (AP Photo | David Richard)
This year? The Browns' supposedly reformed second-year quarterback spent the weekend in Cleveland, babysat by teammates and LeBron James' inner circle, including business partner Maverick Carter.
"[Carter has] taken a big responsibility in making sure that Johnny's doing all the right things,'' Browns safety Donte Whitner said via Cleveland.com after the first day of organized team activities on Tuesday. "(Manziel) has a mentor, somebody to talk to, certain things that he really didn't have the ability (to do) or somebody to talk to before. It looks like it's working out so far.''
Carter and James are partners in LRMR, the marketing firm that represents Manziel. Together, they have played nanny to Manziel, who was released from inpatient rehab in April. When Manziel has been spotted in public since then, he usually has teammates Joe Haden or Whitner, or Carter as a conscience and a wingman, keeping him out of trouble and out of compromising photos.
"We don't really have to say anything,'' Whitner said. "He's been doing that any way. I remember last (year) they made a big fuss about Johnny being in Vegas for Memorial Day weekend. Johnny was here in Cleveland for Memorial Day weekend this year. So that's another step that he's taken.
"He understands that you can't be in Vegas or Miami or any of these other places, you have to be here. If you have to come in a day or two extra for an hour or two per day, that's what quarterbacks do. And no matter if you like it, you have to be here.''
Whitner says Manziel finally has grasped how his image as a partier was hurting his career.
"First of all, Johnny's a very young guy,'' Whitner said. "He understands the mistakes that he's made, so he's taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of the trouble. From being out or people seeing him somewhere and saying 'Johnny's doing this, Johnny's doing that' and now he understands how serious it is. He'll be all right.
"Today was our first day being out here, but I could tell you one thing, he was here 100 percent of the time in offseason workouts, from conditioning and running and lifting, putting extra time in. Everything off the field and the things he's supposed to be doing, he's really doing. So hopefully that translates to him going out there, making plays and becoming the quarterback that we think he can become and that he wants to become.''
 
Don't Miss: Sports mobile apps!
Sports Essentials
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.


NFL: All eyes on Johnny as Manziel practices with Browns
Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel throws a pass during an NFL football organized team activity, Tuesday in Berea, Ohio.
Advertisement
Posted: Tuesday, May 26, 2015 8:10 pm
AP Sports Writer Houston Community Newspapers
BEREA, Ohio — Except for sporting a tighter haircut under his orange helmet, Johnny Manziel looked pretty much the same.
He scrambled from defenders and zipped passes. He talked to his coaches after plays, and joked around with Browns teammates during water breaks.
Manziel is back on the football field, where he built his Johnny Football reputation and where he must now prove he belongs. His comeback — day-to-day — is ongoing.
For the first time since a highly publicized, 10-week stay at a rehab facility in Pennsylvania this winter, Manziel practiced in front of journalists on Tuesday as the Browns moved into the next phase of their offseason program.
The 22-year-old, who played poorly in two starts last season and then sought treatment for an unspecified issue, did not speak with reporters afterward.
However, several of his teammates gave glowing reports on Manziel. They’ve been impressed with his determination to change a party-boy image following a bad rookie year.
“He understands the mistakes that he’s made, so he’s taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of trouble,” Browns safety Donte Whitner said. “Now he understands how serious it is. He’ll be all right.”
The Browns can only hope so. They invested a first-round draft pick on the former Heisman Trophy winner and have publicly stated they still believe he can develop into a top-tier NFL starter. Time will tell, but Manziel is at least showing early signs of an attitude change.
Whitner said when he arrives or leaves Browns headquarters, Manziel’s car is usually in the parking lot.
“If you’re here in the morning, you see who has those first couple parking spots, you know who was here before everybody else,” he said. “So he’s taken the steps that it takes to be a good quarterback.”
Manziel had a few nice moments during 11-on-11 drills. He threaded a strong pass over the middle to tight end Rob Housler on one play, and rolled right and slipped a side-armed pass for a completion to wide receiver Darius Jennings. Manziel, who will enter training camp as Josh McCown’s backup, also forced a short throw that was intercepted by K’Waun Williams and returned for a touchdown.
Browns coach Mike Pettine did not grade any of Manziel’s snaps, but said he’s been “very engaged in meetings.”
As for Manziel’s personality, Pettine said the popular QB hasn’t changed.
“I just think he’s probably a little bit more focused now,” Pettine said. “But it’s something that he knows and he has said, he’ll have to prove it every day.”
McCown has seen it. The 13-year veteran has only been teammates with Manziel for a short time, but said Manziel just needs to keep stacking up good days.
“His position is very demanding. It’s demanding of a lot of things — emotionally, your time and effort — and I think he’s understanding that and he’s embracing that, and that’s the key,” McCown said.
Posted in Sports on Tuesday, May 26, 2015 8:10 pm.
Similar Stories
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
Screen Name or Email
facebook
google
yahoo
aol

