Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
How LeBron James is keeping Browns' Johnny Manziel out of trouble
Johnny Manziel
Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel smiles during an organized team activity on Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Berea, Ohio. (AP Photo | David Richard)
This year? The Browns' supposedly reformed second-year quarterback spent the weekend in Cleveland, babysat by teammates and LeBron James' inner circle, including business partner Maverick Carter.
"[Carter has] taken a big responsibility in making sure that Johnny's doing all the right things,'' Browns safety Donte Whitner said via Cleveland.com after the first day of organized team activities on Tuesday. "(Manziel) has a mentor, somebody to talk to, certain things that he really didn't have the ability (to do) or somebody to talk to before. It looks like it's working out so far.''
Carter and James are partners in LRMR, the marketing firm that represents Manziel. Together, they have played nanny to Manziel, who was released from inpatient rehab in April. When Manziel has been spotted in public since then, he usually has teammates Joe Haden or Whitner, or Carter as a conscience and a wingman, keeping him out of trouble and out of compromising photos.
"We don't really have to say anything,'' Whitner said. "He's been doing that any way. I remember last (year) they made a big fuss about Johnny being in Vegas for Memorial Day weekend. Johnny was here in Cleveland for Memorial Day weekend this year. So that's another step that he's taken.
"He understands that you can't be in Vegas or Miami or any of these other places, you have to be here. If you have to come in a day or two extra for an hour or two per day, that's what quarterbacks do. And no matter if you like it, you have to be here.''
Whitner says Manziel finally has grasped how his image as a partier was hurting his career.
"First of all, Johnny's a very young guy,'' Whitner said. "He understands the mistakes that he's made, so he's taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of the trouble. From being out or people seeing him somewhere and saying 'Johnny's doing this, Johnny's doing that' and now he understands how serious it is. He'll be all right.
"Today was our first day being out here, but I could tell you one thing, he was here 100 percent of the time in offseason workouts, from conditioning and running and lifting, putting extra time in. Everything off the field and the things he's supposed to be doing, he's really doing. So hopefully that translates to him going out there, making plays and becoming the quarterback that we think he can become and that he wants to become.''
 
Don't Miss: Sports mobile apps!
Sports Essentials
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.


Ken Blaze-USA TODAY Sports
Johnny Manziel began Browns organized team activities as the primary backup for Josh McCown, plus updates on other OTAs from around the league.
The Cleveland Browns opened organized team activities on Tuesday and wouldn't you know it, people are interested in the quarterback depth chart. Free agent acquisition Josh McCown opened workouts by taking reps with the starters while second-year player Johnny Manziel worked with the second team,  according to Mary Kay Cabot of the Cleveland Plain Dealer .
McCown was always expected to be the starter, but Manziel is expected to challenge McCown for the job at some point. Whether that will actually take place this offseason is still up in the air. For now, the Browns are trusting Manziel with the immediate backup duties. Cleveland also has Thad Lewis and Connor Shaw at the quarterback position.
How did Manziel perform in his first go at OTAs? The reports are mixed, though there isn't a ton to go on.  Nate Ulrich of the Akron Beacon Journal pointed out a pick-six Manziel threw when he missed wide receiver Andrew Hawkins ,  while Kevin Jones of the team website reports Manziel was "humming" the football on Tuesday and hit Rodney Smith on a 45-yard pass.
Here are more news and notes from OTAs on Tuesday:
Carr still not throwing
Oakland Raiders quarterback Derek Carr is dealing with an injury to his right ring finger and is not throwing during the team's OTAs. It's worth noting the second-year pro was wearing a helmet and cleats during Tuesday's session and was active for individual drills. He even handed the ball off, but throwing was a no-go. The big question is whether Carr will be ready to go for the team's mandatory minicamp on June 9. He is expected to be ready when training camp rolls around in July,  according to CSN Bay Area .
The Raiders have struggled for a long time, but most experts believe they've strung together multiple productive offseasons and could soon be ready to compete. A lot is riding on Carr to utilize Michael Crabtree and rookie Amari Cooper to make the Raiders a strong offensive force, so it's not surprising the team is being cautious with his injury.
Jones attends OTAs
Julio Jones could be in line for a massive contract extension in the near future. The Atlanta Falcons exercised the fifth-year option in his contract, meaning he's with the team through 2015, but he has nothing set beyond that. Fortunately, Jones isn't among those players who keep away from the team while awaiting a long-term extension -- he was active and participating when things got underway on Tuesday,  as noted by NFL.com .
The Falcons will likely be working hard at getting Jones extended at some point this season. If they don't, smart money is on them using the franchise tag. There's no way, barring massive regression or off-the-field issues, that Jones ends up somewhere else in 2016. It looks like he knows that, too.
Multiple players absent elsewhere
As noted in the link to NFL.com above, multiple teams were without big-name players at OTAs. The Seattle Seahawks were without Russell Wilson , Jimmy Graham , Cliff Avril and Michael Bennett. Though Wilson and the Seahawks haven't agreed on a new contract, he missed the sessions for personal reasons, alongside Avril and Graham. Bennett is seeking a new contract and was absent for that reason, according to the report.
Then there's San Diego Chargers safety Eric Weddle and Browns safety Tashaun Gipson , who are looking for long-term deals and chose not to attend the OTAs. Detroit Lions safety James Ihedigbo is taking a different approach, attending the Lions' OTA sessions as a "show of faith," according to the report. Gipson and Weddle are among the best at their position and should have some leverage.
Of course, given that these are the early goings of the offseason programs, it's not a huge deal if players are absent. It will be a much bigger problem if players don't show up to mandatory training camp while seeking new deals, but we're over a month out from that being a concern.
More from SBNation.com
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot password?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Almost done,
By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .
Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.
We have our own Community Guidelines at SBNation.com. You should read them.
I Agree to the Community Guidelines
Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.
We have our own Community Guidelines at SBNation.com. You should read them.
I Agree to the Community Guidelines
Authenticating
Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.
In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
Yes, share my data

