(Bonnie Jo Mount /The Washington Post)
Stop and smell the roses along the way, American singer-songwriter Mac Davis advised in a top 10 hit in the 1970s. In the more than three decades Davis imparted that wisdom, numerous studies have confirmed the link between exposure to nature and improved physical, psychological and social well-being. They have shown that greenery has been associated with reduced levels of asthma, improved healing times and even with making people more likely to exercise.
Over the past few years, a booming ecosystem of therapists, bootcamp coaches and others have embraced the concept of "ecotherapy," but there has been little research so far about how much we actually need to stay healthy.
The White House on Tuesday recognized the links between people's well being and their environment by launching an initiative focusing on the connections between climate change and public health . The administration is bringing health and data experts in to discuss strategies on how to address this issue. And President Obama has put a personal face on the initiative by talking about his daughter Malia's asthma.
The question of how to help man better adapt to changes in our habitats -- both due to global climate changes and migration --  is increasingly important as more and more people move to cities where pollutants can be higher and opportunities to commune with nature may be fleeting. The World Health Organization predicts that 70 percent of the world's population will live in urban areas within 30 years.
To address this demographic trend, a team of scientists has begun to study how to define a "nature dose" in an effort to develop recommendations for minimum levels of exposure in the same way doctors do for things like Vitamin D, vegetables or medicines. At a macro level, that information could be used by public health experts, ecologists, sociologists, and urban planners to help figure out how to plan and manage cities in a way that could boost health outcomes.
"A major consequence of continued urbanization is that more people will be exposed to the health risks associated with city living. Urban nature could provide a cost-effective tool to reduce these health risks," Danielle F. Shanahan from the University of Queensland in Australia and her colleagues wrote in the journal Bioscience on Wednesday.
 
Ariana Eunjung Cha is a national reporter for the Post. She has previously served as the newspaper’s bureau chief in Beijing, Shanghai and San Francisco, a correspondent in Baghdad and as a tech reporter based in Washington.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

