Posted: May 26, 2015 - 11:14pm
Back | Next
Jeff Roberson
St. Louis Blues head coach Ken Hitchcock listens to a question during a news conference Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in St. Louis. The Blues are sticking with Hitchcock for another season, announcing the veteran NHL hockey coach has signed a one-year contract with the team. (AP Photo/Jeff Roberson)
Back | Next
Matt York
Arizona Cardinals' Tyrann Mathieu (32) participates in team workouts, Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Tempe, Ariz. (AP Photo/Matt York)
1st known all-girls tackle football league formed in Utah
SALT LAKE CITY — The first known all-girls tackle football league has been formed in Utah, featuring a star player who earned an invitation to the Super Bowl three years ago thanks to a highlight video of her exploits against boys.
KSL-TV reported 12-year-old Sam Gordon is part of a four-team league for fifth-graders and sixth-graders that started play last weekend in West Jordan.
As a 9-year-old, Gordon gained national attention after her father posted a highlight video of her running for long touchdowns against boys her age. She appeared on “Good Morning America” with her likeness on a custom-made box of Wheaties.
Officials with two national youth tackle football organizations, Pop Warner USA and USA Football, say this is the first known all-girls youth league in the country.
Blues retain Ken Hitchcock as coach for another season
ST. LOUIS — The St. Louis Blues are sticking with veteran coach Ken Hitchcock for another season.
The Blues and Hitchcock on Tuesday announced a one-year contract. Financial terms were not disclosed.
Hitchcock took over as Blues coach during the 2011-2012 season. He has led St. Louis to an NHL-best 175-79-27 regular-season record since then. The postseason has been a different story.
Under Hitchcock, the Blues have made it past the first round of the playoffs just once, and never past the second. This season, they lost in the first round to lower-seeded Minnesota in six games.
The Blues were among several teams who met with Mike Babcock, the former Detroit coach, before he signed with Toronto for a reported $50 million over eight years.
Healthy Honey Badger says ‘football is fun again’
TEMPE, Ariz.  — The Honey Badger is happy again.
Tyrann Mathieu is darting around the practice field at OTAs, no brace on his knee, no cast on his thumb.
“Football is fun again,” the Arizona Cardinals safety said after Tuesday’s workout.
Coach Bruce Arians said Mathieu “looks like a rookie again,” and he meant it as a high compliment.
“He’s got a smile on his face,” Arians said. “He’s extremely quick and fluid again. He’s got his hands on balls. He looks like he was when he was a rookie.”
Two years ago, the Cardinals took a chance after the former LSU star defensive back missed a year of football following marijuana-related problems that got him kicked out of school. The Cardinals got a steal. Mathieu seized the opportunity and for most of the season was in the discussion for NFL defensive rookie of the year.
Then in Week 14, Mathieu was returning a free kick after a safety against St. Louis when his foot stayed planted in the turf while he was hit by several players. He got up, started to walk off the field then crumpled to the ground. Mathieu blew a kiss to the crowd as he was carted off the field with a torn left ACL that ended his big rookie season.
He wasn’t ready to play when the 2014 season began. He sat out the first game and mostly watched from the sidelines for several weeks after that.
Highest Rated

