Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By IVAN MORENO Associated Press
04/07/2015 7:48 PM
04/07/2015 7:49 PM
A pair of Colorado cases — locally dubbed the "Cake Wars" — have added a new twist to the fight over LGBT discrimination and religious objections playing out across the U.S.
In one dispute, a gay couple who wanted a wedding cake filed a complaint against a baker who turned them away, citing his Christian faith. The other has developed along opposite lines, with a customer requesting a cake with an anti-gay biblical message saying he's been discriminated against by shops that refused him.
Here's a look at where things stand:
---
THE WEDDING CAKE
---
THE RELIGIOUS OBJECTION CAKE
Bill Jack went to three bakeries last summer asking for cakes shaped like the Bible with anti-gay religious messages, including "homosexuality is a detestable sin." He was refused and says the shops — Azucar Bakery, Le Bakery Sensual and Gateaux — discriminated against him because he's Christian.
---
THE REACTIONS
Jack released a statement saying the reaction highlights unequal treatment. "It is offensive that the state of Colorado prosecuted Jack Phillips of Masterpiece Cakeshop for bringing his Christian faith to bear in his decision not to bake a wedding cake for a gay couple, yet business owners who decide to refuse service to a Christian wanting Bible verses on cakes are exonerated by the state," he said.
A state lawmaker, Republican Rep. Gordon Klingenschmitt, who sponsored a failed religious objections bill, said all of the bakers should be protected by the First Amendment. He said the decision against Jack showed bias. "I'm very disappointed in the hypocrisy that the Colorado government only punishes Christian bakers."
Le Bakery Sensual's lawyer, Jack Robinson, however, said the First Amendment's free speech guarantees protect the bakers from being forced to communicate a message. "Mr. Jack's actions had nothing to do with religion or being Christian, but everything to do with forcing someone else to publish his hateful speech that was intended to discriminate against a protected class of individuals."
The statement referenced Colorado's anti-discrimination law that protects people against bias in employment, housing and public accommodations. Colorado is one of 21 states whose law expressly includes gays and lesbians.
---
ELSEWHERE
Before Indiana legislators passed a religious objections law, triggering a national uproar that spilled into several other state Capitols, a growing rift had been apparent between gay rights advocates and religious groups. Cases similar to Colorado's Cake Wars have popped up across the nation.
A florist in Washington state faces a lawsuit after refusing to provide services for a gay wedding in 2013. Barronelle Stutzman is fighting the case. She's been fined $1,000, but a crowdfunding campaign has netted more than $85,000. Her supporters have compared her benefit page to an Indiana pizza shop that raised more than $800,000 after closing when a co-owner expressed support for the state's religious objections law, which has since been revised to address concerns that it would allow discrimination against gays and lesbians.
The New Mexico Supreme Court two years ago ruled against a photographer who wouldn't take pictures of a gay couple's 2006 commitment ceremony, saying the state's discrimination law was violated.
And in Oregon, two bakers face fines after an administrative law judge ruled they discriminated against a gay couple in 2013 by refusing to bake them a wedding cake.
Related
Irene J. Smith, a former St. Louis alderman, drives Canfield Green Apartment Complex resident Rodney Loggins to his voting place on Tuesday, April 7, 2015. Smith was out canvassing for Ferguson City Council candidate Lee Smith and meet Loggins who needed a ride to his poll. (AP Photo/The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Laurie Skrivan) EDWARDSVILLE INTELLIGENCER OUT, THE ALTON TELEGRAPH OUT
› ‹
Related
Irene J. Smith, a former St. Louis alderman, drives Canfield Green Apartment Complex resident Rodney Loggins to his voting place on Tuesday, April 7, 2015. Smith was out canvassing for Ferguson City Council candidate Lee Smith and meet Loggins who needed a ride to his poll. (AP Photo/The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Laurie Skrivan) EDWARDSVILLE INTELLIGENCER OUT, THE ALTON TELEGRAPH OUT
› ‹
Nation & World Videos
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

