Attorney General Mark R. Herring is again wading into the national debate over illegal immigration by backing President Obama’s executive actions.
Joining 14 other states and the District of Columbia, Herring argued to a federal court Monday that the president’s November orders are both legal and beneficial.
“While we’re waiting on Congress to enact long overdue comprehensive immigration reform, the President has offered lawful, reasonable steps that will boost our economy, keep families intact, and promote public safety,” Herring (D) said in a statement.
The president’s plan, which would defer the deportations of as many as 5 million undocumented immigrants, has been blocked by a U.S. District judge in Texas while a lawsuit filed against it by 26 states goes forward. The brief filed Monday supports the administration’s appeal of the judge’s decision. Rather than harming states, as opponents believe, the program’s defenders argue that it will help them by bringing many immigrants into the legal economy.
Herring’s endorsement revives a clash in Virginia over immigration policy that began in April 2014, when the attorney general declared that some illegal immigrants can qualify for instate college tuition. Republican lawmakers tried unsuccessfully in January to block those students from receiving the tuition discount in the legislature. Herring has given Virginia law enforcement officials cover to defy immigration officials by releasing suspected undocumented immigrants from custody.
Republicans have said that Herring is abusing his office to champion liberal causes in preparation for a 2017 gubernatorial campaign. The attorney general has countered that he is merely making the legal findings his job requires.
Herring has also found Virginia’s ban on same-sex marriage unconstitutional , and last month he filed a brief encouraging the Supreme Court to draw the same conclusion.
Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) praised Herring in a statement Monday, as did U.S. Sen. Mark R. Warner (D). Until Congress acts, Warner said, “I applaud Attorney General Mark Herring for moving to defend the protections that will be extended to undocumented immigrants in Virginia.”
Led by Washington state , Herring was joined on the brief by California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont and the District of Columbia.
Rachel Weiner covers local politics for The Washington Post.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

