Latest Headlines
Latest Headlines
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By Kathleen McGrory and Jeffrey S. Solochek
Herald/Times Tallahassee Bureau
04/09/2015 3:47 PM
04/09/2015 4:02 PM
TALLAHASSEE A proposal that would reduce the testing requirements for Florida schoolchildren — and delay the release of school grades until the new state exams are deemed valid — is headed to Gov. Rick Scott’s desk.
The Florida House passed the high-profile bill (HB 7069) in a 105-6 vote Thursday.
Observers had questioned whether the conservative House would go along with the latest version of the bill, given Speaker Steve Crisafulli’s reluctance to even temporarily suspend school grades. But House Education Committee Chairwoman Marlene O’Toole, R-Lady Lake, said the proposal maintained Florida’s commitment to education accountability.
“It looks really good,” O'Toole said. “I would not sign on if it was not.”
The bill eliminates an 11th grade English test, makes the Postsecondary Education Readiness Test optional, and prohibits students from spending more than 5 percent of their total classroom hours on state-mandated exams.
In addition, the proposal:
▪ Allows school to start as early as Aug. 10,
▪ Removes a requirement that school systems give final exams in every subject not covered by state tests, and
▪ Reduces the amount student test scores must count toward teacher evaluations.
To address concerns about last month’s testing meltdown, the Senate added a provision requiring an independent review of the new Florida Standards Assessments. Until the review is finished, tests results cannot be used for high-stakes decisions, including whether third-grade students can be promoted to the fourth grade.
Still, several House Democrats said the bill needed to go further.
“I don’t think this is a panacea,” said Rep. Dwight Dudley, D-St. Petersburg. “I’m afraid we are going to hear a lot from educators.”
Contact Kathleen McGrory at kmcgrory@MiamiHerald.com.
Related
Related
Editor's Choice Videos
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

