Sections
Jimenez set to square off vs. McHugh in rubber match
Email
Print
Jimenez goes seven strong 1:01
5/16/15: Ubaldo Jimenez tosses seven sharp innings of two-run ball against the Angels, striking out six while not giving up a walk
By Connor Smolensky / MLB.com |
0 COMMENTS
The Orioles and Astros will play their last game at Camden Yards this season on Wednesday before Houston hosts Baltimore for a four-game series next week.
Ubaldo Jimenez (3-3, 2.82) will be on the mound for the Orioles and is coming off a start against the Marlins where he pitched only four innings, allowing three runs on seven hits and one walk in a no-decision. Jimenez will go for his second win in May.
The Astros will counter with Collin McHugh (5-2, 4.06 ERA) who, over the last four months of regular season play, dating back to Aug. 1, 2014, has posted a 12-2 record with a 2.84 ERA in 19 starts. McHugh has faced the Orioles just once in his career where he did not factor into the decision after giving up two runs on seven hits in 6 1/3 innings last season.
Things to know about this game
• Jimenez is coming off a short outing, but has been perfect against Houston in his career. The right-hander owns a career 4-0 record with a 2.24 ERA in nine starts against the Astros.
• McHugh recorded his sixth quality start of the season in his last start, tossing seven innings and allowing three runs on nine hits. The nine hits were a season high, and the Astros lost to the Tigers, 6-2.
• The Orioles are still waiting to hear word on the suspension of Brian Matusz. The relief pitcher was suspended eight games by Major League Baseball on Monday for having a foreign substance on his arm in the Orioles' weekend series against the Marlins. Matusz appealed the suspension and the Orioles are waiting on a verdict. If Matusz is to be suspended, the Orioles will have to play a man down for the duration of his suspension.
Connor Smolensky is an associate reporter for MLB.com. This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

