Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Fischer talks about possibilities of rate hike
Submitted by Yvette Sung on Wed, 05/27/2015 - 02:19
Even a peewee change brought in by the US Federal Reserve has far-reaching effects on almost all the economies of the world. This adds weight to the fact that the Fed, indeed, is the most powerful bank housed in the world's most powerful economy.
The proposed move of the Fed to raise US interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade, requires it to first gauge the global impact such a step entails. According to Stanley Fischer, US Federal Reserve Vice Chairman, the US and other economies of the world have important feedback effects on each other. Thus, even a single step taken by it can spark bouts of volatility in the global financial markets.
Nevertheless, Fisher made it clear that higher interest rates were coming for the US, though he did not mention a period for the same. He said, "The actual raising of policy rates could trigger further bouts of volatility, but my best estimate is that the normalization of our policy should prove manageable for the emerging market economies".
On the other hand, analysts contend that a weak first quarter could force the Fed to wait longer before starting its first tightening cycle since 2004-2006. But, if this tightening becomes an actuality, spillover effects would be observed way beyond domestic financial markets. Analysts claim that the maximum impact of Fed's normalization would be felt by the economies that are more vulnerable. The Fed on its part, will make efforts to help weaker economies cope with the sudden development.
However, it is the Fed's responsibility to weigh US interests above global interests, it being the Central Bank of US. Therefore, giving due regard to global price movements, Fed would strive to meet its domestic objectives of fostering full US employment and 2 percent inflation. Fischer urged the institutions around the world to return to higher interest rates, in order to boost the flagging global economic growth.
Opt-out instructions are included in each e-mail.
Navigation
Health

