Dabakis makes four in race for Salt Lake City mayor
By CHRISTOPHER SMART | and Amy McDonald  The Salt Lake Tribune
First Published Apr 06 2015 08:03AM    •    Updated 6 hours ago
(Trent Nelson  |  The Salt Lake Tribune)   Sen. Jim Dabakis, D-Salt Lake City, speaks about the call by the LDS Church for nondiscrimination, during a press conference at the state Capitol building in Salt Lake City, Tuesday January 27, 2015.
(Trent Nelson  |  The Salt Lake Tribune)   Sen. Jim Dabakis, D-Salt Lake City, speaks about the call by the LDS Church for nondiscrimination, during a press conference at the state Capitol building in Salt Lake City, Tuesday January 27, 2015.
Lively election » Former party leader says he wants to spark a competitive race marked by “brawny” debate among candidates.
Jim is in.
Sen. Jim Dabakis, D-Salt Lake City, has announced his candidacy for Salt Lake City mayor, saying his high profile and popularity in the community puts him in position to win.
In a weekend blog post and Monday interview, Dabakis said he is running for mayor to create a "robust, energy-driven, competitive, lots of candidates working hard" kind of election. The former state Democratic Party chairman said he has a "vision for our Capital City" and wants more people to participate in the electoral process.
He joins former lawmaker Jackie Biskupski and current City Council Chairman Luke Garrott in challenging two-term Mayor Ralph Becker.
TOP JOBS
VIDEOS
"A brawny discussion among a large number of candidates will be terrific!" he wrote on his blog, the Dabakis Factor. "Lots of input and a competitive race will bring participation to our Salt Lake neighborhoods. ... It's important that all the candidates be asked tough questions."
Earlier, Dabakis wondered aloud whether Biskupski or Garrott could marshal campaigns potent enough to defeat the mayor because their fundraising is a fraction of Becker's. According to the last report from the city recorder's office in February, Biskupski has raised $25,700, and Garrott has collected $7,591. Becker, by contrast, had amassed $314,916.
But in a statement on her website, Biskupski said she now has raised nearly $100,000.
"Sen. Dabakis has come to realize what I have known for some time: The people of Salt Lake City are ready for a new mayor," Biskupski's statement said. "I welcome Jim to this important and historical race."
Garrott, too, welcomed Dabakis' candidacy.
"It's a real statement on Ralph [Becker] that so many candidates are entering the field," Garrott said in a prepared statement. "When a mayor neglects the issues of everyday residents, it opens the door for loud characters like Jim Dabakis who are always seeking the spotlight."
But Dabakis said he is well positioned to win the mayor's seat.
In a Tribune interview Monday, he said that a poll he commissioned recently showed he had an 81 percent name recognition among Salt Lake City voters.
"My favorability rating was higher than the mayor's," he said. "And my unfavorability was lower than the mayor's."
Biskupski, who announced her candidacy for mayor in January, has said Dabakis' entry into the race could split the voter base they share and pave the way for a third term for Becker. Biskupski and Dabakis are both openly gay.
She earlier described being "hurt" and "frustrated" by Dabakis talking about entering the race only days after standing by her side at a press conference criticizing Becker .
Monday, she acknowledged that, "as a result of Jim's candidacy we may make some strategic adjustments."
Biskupski has blasted Becker for endorsing a sales-tax increase linked to the relocation of the Utah State Prison, a theme Dabakis raised in his announcement.
 
 
POPULAR NEWS

