Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
Toews gets 2 to force OT, but Hawks drop Game 5 to Ducks 5-4 Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HIgWD2
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Toews gets 2 to force OT, but Hawks drop Game 5 to Ducks 5-4
AP 10:31 a.m. EDT May 26, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — When Jonathan Toews scored twice in the final seconds to force overtime in Game 5, the Western Conference finals appeared to be bending under the weight of the Chicago Blackhawks' famed playoff tenacity.
They bent, but the Anaheim Ducks didn't break.
And now Chicago will need all of that postseason toughness to avoid elimination.
Matt Beleskey scored 45 seconds into overtime, and the Ducks bounced back from Toews' heroics to beat the Blackhawks 5-4 on Monday night, taking a 3-2 series lead.
"I think going into overtime, we were feeling that the game was in our hands and we're going to get that next break," Toews said. "So it's unfortunate that we couldn't take advantage of it."
Until Beleskey lined up Ryan Kesler's fat rebound off Corey Crawford's pad and fired it into an open net, the ice appeared to be tilted in the Blackhawks' favor in the sixth overtime period already in this series.
Chicago trailed for about 52 minutes before silencing Honda Center with Toews' stunning goals, one with 1:50 left and the tying score with 37.2 seconds to play.
"I think we always show that we can always dig ourselves out of those holes," Toews said. "We did it tonight, and still find a way to push it to overtime."
Crawford made 23 saves before giving up the decisive rebound for the Blackhawks, who had won four overtime games already in this postseason, including two in this series. But Chicago dropped to 0-4 after those OT games, and the Hawks lost for the first time in 10 postseason games while scoring at least three goals.
Teuvo Teravainen and Brent Seabrook scored in the second period for Chicago, which lost one bit of its postseason aura: The Blackhawks had won Game 5 in a tied series seven consecutive times.
Now they must win two straight to reach their third Stanley Cup finals in six seasons.
Game 6 is Wednesday in Chicago.
"That's probably as good of a lesson as you're going to get on keeping your emotions (on an) even keel," Chicago forward Patrick Sharp said. "It was a good, hard-fought game. Tough to lose it quickly in overtime like that, but they're a good team. We expect them to play hard and win games. We just have to make sure we win at home."
Patrick Maroon scored with 5:15 left in regulation, while Sami Vatanen had a goal and an assist for the Ducks, who need one more victory to earn their first trip to the Stanley Cup finals since 2007.
"It's Ducks hockey," said Ryan Kesler, who had a goal and an assist. "We don't like to do anything easy."
Cam Fowler and Kesler scored 32 seconds apart in a three-goal first period for the Ducks, who have won the Western Conference title just twice in franchise history. Captain Ryan Getzlaf had two assists and set the franchise's single-season playoff scoring record with his 19th point.
Toews got both of his goals with Crawford pulled, tying it with an impossibly sharp-angled shot that somehow got through Frederik Andersen, who made 24 saves. He had been mostly superb in the postseason until allowing two awful goals in Game 5, including that tying howler.
"It was a great comeback," Chicago coach Joel Quenneville said. "A great second (period), a great third, amazing finish. Tough in the overtime. We didn't start on time for the first time in the series. (Anaheim) talked about being ready. Might have been the differential. But great comeback."
These teams combined for a six-goal third period in Game 4, and they put together another memorable finish in a high-level playoff series already featuring two multi-overtime games, both won by Chicago. After Anaheim nearly stole Game 4 with three goals in 37 seconds, the Blackhawks nearly swiped this one away from the Ducks.
Chicago opened Game 5 with more than 16 minutes without a shot on goal while falling behind 3-0, but the Blackhawks responded by scoring early and late in a dominant second period to set the stage for another remarkable finish.
NOTES: Anaheim coach Bruce Boudreau shuffled his forwards to start Game 5, scratching Emerson Etem and activating Tomas Fleischmann. Boudreau changed three line combinations to start, putting Fleischmann on the second line with Kesler and Jakob Silfverberg. He changed the combinations again in the third period. ... The Blackhawks allowed three goals in a period for the seventh time in this postseason. ... Actor Emilio Estevez tweeted his support to the Ducks before and during the game. Estevez played coach Gordon Bombay in the "Mighty Ducks" film series that originally gave the nickname to this expansion NHL franchise formerly owned by Disney.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


23mScott Powers
The Blackhawks are facing elimination at home in Game 6, but thanks to a range of past experiences, they're still confident.
19hScott Powers
ESPN Chicago's Scott Powers and NHL.com correspondent Brian Hedger break down the Chicago Blackhawks' 5-4 overtime loss to the Anaheim Ducks in Game 5 of the Western Conference finals.
Play2:59
20hScott Powers
20hScott Burnside
Matt Beleseky's OT winner saved his Ducks from what could have been a crushing loss and moved them one game closer to the Stanley Cup finals.
Play2:28
22h
Matt Beleskey scored 45 seconds into overtime, and the Anaheim Ducks beat the Chicago Blackhawks 5-4 on Monday night in Game 5 to take a 3-2 lead in the Western Conference finals.
21hScott Powers
Matt Beleseky scored 45 seconds into overtime to give the Ducks a Game 5 win and a 3-2 series lead against the Blackhawks.
Jerry Lai/USA TODAY Sports
1dScott Burnside
It comes down to a best-of-three affair to determine the Western Conference champion, and the Ducks and Blackhawks are both feeling confident.
Blackhawks remain confident heading into elimination game
27m
CHICAGO -- There are certain advantages to having played as much playoff hockey as the Chicago Blackhawks have in recent years.
The Blackhawks certainly have a lot of experience to draw on. They have been the team trying to close out an opponent, and they have been the one being closed on. They’ve faced must-win games at home and on the road. The Blackhawks have experienced mostly success, but they’ve endured failure, too. The fact that they have seen it all over the years makes them a confident group, regardless of the situation.
Facing them now is a 3-2 series deficit to the Anaheim Ducks in the Western Conference finals. The Blackhawks have to win Game 6 on Wednesday in Chicago to keep their season alive.
As in the past, the Blackhawks aren’t intimidated by their present circumstances. Blackhawks defenseman Niklas Hjalmarsson went as far as describing the upcoming Game 6 as “fun."
Jonathan Toews rallied the Blackhawks to overtime in Game 5. He'll need to lead them to victory in Game 6. 
Harry How/Getty Images
“It's more fun to play these games than the normal games,” Hjalmarsson said Tuesday after the team returned to Chicago. “When it's all on the line, I think that's what you want to play. You want to play at this time of year. You want to play elimination games -- obviously, come up on the winning side. That's the most fun games to play.”
The Blackhawks have been on both sides of their fair share of elimination games. Last season, they trailed the Los Angeles Kings 3-1 in the Western Conference finals and ended up losing in overtime of Game 7. In 2013, the Blackhawks were down 3-1 to the Detroit Red Wings and won the series. In 2012, they were down 3-1 to the Phoenix Coyotes and lost in six games. In 2011, they trailed the Vancouver Canucks 3-0 and lost in seven games. In 2009, the Blackhawks trailed the Red Wings 3-1 and lost in five games. All together, the Blackhawks are 9-4 when facing elimination.
“It's something we know we've done before,” Blackhawks forward Brandon Saad said Tuesday. “When we're in tight situations like this, we have a veteran group that has been through it, and we know how to win games. We got to take care of tomorrow. It's one game at a time.”
Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville thought past experience could be helpful for his team, but his players also needed to pull from the emotions of Game 5.
“I think we've been behind the eight ball a few times,” Quenneville said. “I think back to being down 3-1 in Detroit [in 2013]. We've been in some tough spots before and put ourselves back. In this series, we've been behind for the third time. Putting ourselves in the spot of trying to have to win one game -- that's our mindset.
“We know that they got a pretty good hockey team there, but we have to play our best game. We can talk about different things going into games, you can visit history, you can look at past games, big games, big moments. There's a lot of history here that we've collected over seven years.  A lot of positive things. I think we all came out of last night's game with an anger and a real sour taste in our mouth. Sometimes, that can be better than a history lesson.”
The Ducks understand the task ahead at the United Center.
“[When] you’ve lost a few games, the next game you come back, and you’re hungry. You know they’re going to be hungry,” Ducks forward Corey Perry said. "It’s a tough building to play in, tough crowd. At the same time, we’re going to be ready. We’re going to use this day to be ready and prepared. Hopefully, tomorrow night we have our best.”
0 Shares

