Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
Toews gets 2 to force OT, but Hawks drop Game 5 to Ducks 5-4 Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HIgWD2
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Toews gets 2 to force OT, but Hawks drop Game 5 to Ducks 5-4
AP 10:31 a.m. EDT May 26, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — When Jonathan Toews scored twice in the final seconds to force overtime in Game 5, the Western Conference finals appeared to be bending under the weight of the Chicago Blackhawks' famed playoff tenacity.
They bent, but the Anaheim Ducks didn't break.
And now Chicago will need all of that postseason toughness to avoid elimination.
Matt Beleskey scored 45 seconds into overtime, and the Ducks bounced back from Toews' heroics to beat the Blackhawks 5-4 on Monday night, taking a 3-2 series lead.
"I think going into overtime, we were feeling that the game was in our hands and we're going to get that next break," Toews said. "So it's unfortunate that we couldn't take advantage of it."
Until Beleskey lined up Ryan Kesler's fat rebound off Corey Crawford's pad and fired it into an open net, the ice appeared to be tilted in the Blackhawks' favor in the sixth overtime period already in this series.
Chicago trailed for about 52 minutes before silencing Honda Center with Toews' stunning goals, one with 1:50 left and the tying score with 37.2 seconds to play.
"I think we always show that we can always dig ourselves out of those holes," Toews said. "We did it tonight, and still find a way to push it to overtime."
Crawford made 23 saves before giving up the decisive rebound for the Blackhawks, who had won four overtime games already in this postseason, including two in this series. But Chicago dropped to 0-4 after those OT games, and the Hawks lost for the first time in 10 postseason games while scoring at least three goals.
Teuvo Teravainen and Brent Seabrook scored in the second period for Chicago, which lost one bit of its postseason aura: The Blackhawks had won Game 5 in a tied series seven consecutive times.
Now they must win two straight to reach their third Stanley Cup finals in six seasons.
Game 6 is Wednesday in Chicago.
"That's probably as good of a lesson as you're going to get on keeping your emotions (on an) even keel," Chicago forward Patrick Sharp said. "It was a good, hard-fought game. Tough to lose it quickly in overtime like that, but they're a good team. We expect them to play hard and win games. We just have to make sure we win at home."
Patrick Maroon scored with 5:15 left in regulation, while Sami Vatanen had a goal and an assist for the Ducks, who need one more victory to earn their first trip to the Stanley Cup finals since 2007.
"It's Ducks hockey," said Ryan Kesler, who had a goal and an assist. "We don't like to do anything easy."
Cam Fowler and Kesler scored 32 seconds apart in a three-goal first period for the Ducks, who have won the Western Conference title just twice in franchise history. Captain Ryan Getzlaf had two assists and set the franchise's single-season playoff scoring record with his 19th point.
Toews got both of his goals with Crawford pulled, tying it with an impossibly sharp-angled shot that somehow got through Frederik Andersen, who made 24 saves. He had been mostly superb in the postseason until allowing two awful goals in Game 5, including that tying howler.
"It was a great comeback," Chicago coach Joel Quenneville said. "A great second (period), a great third, amazing finish. Tough in the overtime. We didn't start on time for the first time in the series. (Anaheim) talked about being ready. Might have been the differential. But great comeback."
These teams combined for a six-goal third period in Game 4, and they put together another memorable finish in a high-level playoff series already featuring two multi-overtime games, both won by Chicago. After Anaheim nearly stole Game 4 with three goals in 37 seconds, the Blackhawks nearly swiped this one away from the Ducks.
Chicago opened Game 5 with more than 16 minutes without a shot on goal while falling behind 3-0, but the Blackhawks responded by scoring early and late in a dominant second period to set the stage for another remarkable finish.
NOTES: Anaheim coach Bruce Boudreau shuffled his forwards to start Game 5, scratching Emerson Etem and activating Tomas Fleischmann. Boudreau changed three line combinations to start, putting Fleischmann on the second line with Kesler and Jakob Silfverberg. He changed the combinations again in the third period. ... The Blackhawks allowed three goals in a period for the seventh time in this postseason. ... Actor Emilio Estevez tweeted his support to the Ducks before and during the game. Estevez played coach Gordon Bombay in the "Mighty Ducks" film series that originally gave the nickname to this expansion NHL franchise formerly owned by Disney.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


@helenenothelen Frederik Andersen maintains his confidence, as do his Ducks teammates http://t.co/drpOjHXdKv
Jonathan Toews
Robert Gauthier / Los Angeles Times
Jonathan Toews and his Blackhawks teammates celebrate after scoring a goal late in the third period of Game 5 of the Western Conference finals.
Jonathan Toews and his Blackhawks teammates celebrate after scoring a goal late in the third period of Game 5 of the Western Conference finals.
(Robert Gauthier / Los Angeles Times)
Ducks goalie Frederik Andersen may have slipped in last two games vs. Chicago, but Anaheim's confidence is not
Statistically, Ducks goaltender Frederik Andersen has outplayed Chicago counterpart Corey Crawford
Ducks goaltender Andersen has set career highs in minutes for regular season and the playoffs
Every good goaltender takes every goal scored against him as a personal insult. The best goalies learn to quickly forget the ones that got away, knowing they can't waste energy brooding over events they can't change.
Ducks goalie Frederik Andersen let more than a few get away from him in the last two games of the Western Conference finals — five of 40 shots in a double-overtime loss to the Chicago Blackhawks in Game 4 and four of 28 in the 5-4 overtime victory Monday that put the Ducks within one win of a berth in the Stanley Cup Final.
He has hit career highs of 3,106 minutes in the regular season and 934 minutes in the playoffs while starting 16 straight games, and it's reasonable to wonder if he's showing physical or mental fatigue from a long season and this powerfully intense playoff series.
The 25-year-old Dane said he's not tired. Nor is he dwelling on the goals he gave up in Game 5 because what's to come is more important than what has already happened, good or bad.
"For me it's all about the next shot and it's about the next game right now. So what happened last night, all that matters is we got the win," he said Tuesday before the Ducks departed for Chicago and Game 6, to be played Wednesday at the United Center.
"I think I've always been good at bouncing back and I think tomorrow is going to be a great opportunity again. It's all about winning that one game and going to the Finals and that's all my focus is right now."
Through the first three games of the West finals, Andersen's postseason goals-against average was 1.75 and his save percentage was .935. Those changed to 1.92 and .929 after Game 4 and to 2.06 and .925 through Game 5.
That's still better than Chicago goalie Corey Crawford, whose goals-against average has risen from 2.29 to 2.36 to 2.57 after the last two games, as his save percentage has sunk from .925 to .924 to .917. Both teams have had defensive breakdowns and committed costly turnovers, perhaps because of fatigue or because they're so closely matched and can capitalize on each other's smallest misstep.
And with the indomitable will of Chicago center Jonathan Toews — who almost single-handedly took Game 4 to overtime with two goals in the last two minutes of the third period — and the skills of winger Patrick Kane and emerging star Teuvo Teravainen matched against the size, speed and scoring ability of Ryan Getzlaf, Corey Perry and the Ducks' mobile, productive defense, high-scoring games were all but certain.
"I think there's things we can clean up, but they're here for a reason too. They're a great hockey team," Ducks defenseman Cam Fowler said. "You have to expect them to get their chances, as well."
For the Ducks, Andersen's numbers are less important than his composure and the confidence he gives them.
"When Freddie's at his best he seems to have this calmness about him," Fowler said. "He goes about his business. But the main thing that you get from him being back there is a sense of security. He seems to always be dialed in.
"I don't see any fatigue, really. There's going to be bounces that happen throughout a playoff series, there's going to be things that you don't want to happen, there's going to be mistakes that are made. That's us as a team. We go through those things as a team. It's not an individual thing. ... Freddie's our rock back there. He's a huge reason why we're here and why we're in this position."
Coach Bruce Boudreau acknowledged that of Chicago's goals in Game 5, "There's some that he'd like to have back, I think." But he, too, expressed trust in Andersen.
"Nobody's perfect," Boudreau said. "Freddie's really good. He's not perfect. None of our players are perfect. They make mistakes. We have the faith and confidence in him that he's going to be great again [Wednesday]."
It's significant that Boudreau, known for switching goalies in midstream in past playoffs, repeated his support for Andersen. "We're not changing anything. We're going with Freddie. He's our guy," Boudreau said.
Andersen wants to repay that faith. "I know how good I can be and I've showed that. Maybe last game wasn't my best but that stuff happens to any goalie," Andersen said. "It's about what you do next that matters."
What he does will go a long way toward determining if the Ducks seize this chance to advance or let it get away, like those goals in Games 4 and 5.
Follow Helene Elliott on Twitter  @helenenothelen
Comments

