0 shares
(Ed Szczepanski, USA TODAY Sports)
The PGA Tour isn’t leaving the Lone Star state just yet. The pros will tee off in the Dallas area for the AT&T Byron Nelson at TPC Four Seasons in Los Colinas, Texas.
This par 70 stretches 7,166 yards and was redesigned in 2007 to feature major undulation on the putting surfaces and several water hazards to navigate. Precision ball striking and tidy putting will get the job done.
Fantasy owners may have a tougher time building against DFS pricing that is relative to the field’s scope of talent. Spend up, but there should be a lot of wiggle room for low-end buys to make up the difference in most contests.
Build around
Jordan Spieth : Dallas born, Spieth was T2 last week at Colonial after falling on his face during Day 2 competition. The resiliency is an intangible that only further endears him to fantasy owners.
Jason Day : Probably the best go-low in the field, or at least among the top three … Day is a past winner here (2010) and has carved up the course with top-10s in three of his last four appearances. The lone exception was just a T27 in 2013.
Jimmy Walker : Don’t be discouraged after last week’s debacle. Walker is too good and a proven winner in his home state. He easily could win this thing come Sunday afternoon. No. 1 in strokes gained: putting.
Dustin Johnson : Everyone knows he has the length to overpower any course, but this one will take most everything he has to offer within 100 yards. He certainly could hoist the trophy this year, but finishing in the top five is definitely within reach if a win isn’t automatic.
Brandt Snedeker : Even though he didn’t make the cut here in 2014, use last week’s performance as a barometer. As long as he doesn’t lose too many off the box, Sneds has arguably the best flat stick in this field (third in strokes gained: putting). He could win if he’s dialed in and Spieth or Day do not go bonkers.
Draws
Ian Poulter : No. 38 in greens in regulation and 18th in strokes gained: putting. While he isn’t winning tournaments, Poulter is consistently putting up the numbers needed as a No. 2 golfer in daily contests. Ride the hot streak by pairing him with Spieth, Day or DJ.
Brendon Todd : Last year’s winner also has a T17 under his belt from his 2013 efforts. He missed the cuts in his prior two attempts. Todd’s 86% cuts-made rate in 2014-15 and No. 20 ranking in strokes gained: putting are tough to ignore.
Russell Henley : A fresh face to the Byron Nelson, Henley has been as productive as any midrange player in his last four PGA events (T24, MC, 21, 4). Expect a respectable but not overwhelming performance. Ranks seventh in strokes gained: putting.
Join the daily baseball fun at FantasyScore.
Zach Johnson : Precision is the name of his game, and Johnson can do magical things if his putter is hot. His approach game tends to put him into the best situation to mask his on-green deficiencies.
George McNeill : Ranks 32nd in strokes gained: putting and has been on fire of late, with four top-20 finishes in his last seven starts, including a T5 last week at Colonial.
Justin Thomas : Pay for recent form. New to the track but has played so well that it’s tough seeing him not being in the conversation of viable DFS draws. A top-10 would be a fine result and somewhat of a fantasy victory.
Charlie Hoffman : He shot a 7-under 273 aggregate here in 2014 for a T8 and posted a T23 back in 2009. Last week’s play was encouraging, as well. Good middle-tier value.
Wild cards
Jason Dufner : Past winner. The price is right in most DFS contests … his game is largely a mess, but he can still net out as a four-day performer with No. 3 production. If owners are lucky, Duf will get on a hot streak and surprise.
Ryan Palmer : Texas native … used to playing in the local-area conditions and has thrived on this track (T22, T33, T9, 2) in his last four trips. Recent play is uninspiring.
Brian Harman : Probably doesn’t stand a snowball’s chance in Dallas to win it, but that shouldn’t be a consideration in why owners play him. Ranks 51st in SGP and has finished inside the top 30 each of the last two years at TPC Four Seasons.
Aaron Baddeley : Ranks 15th in strokes gained: putting. Generally plays well in Texas … has made only one of his last four cuts in 2015, but he’s cheap in most contests.
2/10
$9.00
$1
2/5
$4.50
$2
2/4
$7.20
$5
1/20
$18.00
Related News
Some of the best drivers in the Sprint Cup series have had issues taming the “Monster Mile,” but Jimmie Johnson isn’t one of them.
8hr
A change of scenery has helped the frustrating but talented player find his mojo.
8hr
The Ducks’ captain will lead the Flying V in Game 6.
126 shares
9hr
Steve takes a look at his three LABR teams. Time to examine yours, too.
279 shares
11hr
The former AL MVP gives the Texas Rangers another big bat in the lineup.
144 shares
One-Day Fantasy Baseball Games
Grueling fantasy baseball ends now! Play ONE-DAY FANTASY BASEBALL games with USA TODAY Sports. No obligations. Play when you want! Immediate 50% matching bonus on deposit.
Most Popular
144 shares
279 shares
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 114 other followers
Post to


May 26, 2015
PGA rookie Thomas seeks breakthrough in Spieth’s back yard at Byron Nelson
Justin Thomas, left, and Jordan Spieth will join Brooks Koepka in a featured threesome Thursday at 1 p.m. | Chris O'Meara AP
By Jimmy Burch
IRVING
Justin Thomas, one of the most successful members of this year’s rookie class on the PGA Tour, envisions a successful debut at the AT&T Byron Nelson based on feedback from Tuesday’s practice round.
Thomas adapted quickly enough to conditions at the Four Seasons Resort to grab the attention of longtime friend, playing partner and Masters champion Jordan Spieth.
“We had a little skins game. It was fun and I got the better hand, as usual, on Jordan,” said Thomas, one of several Nelson competitors staying at Spieth’s home in Dallas during tournament week.
Thomas, 22, and Spieth, 21, have traded good-natured barbs with one another during tournaments since their junior golf days. Thomas introduced Spieth to his caddie, Michael Greller, when Spieth was still an amateur.
But they will break fresh ground Thursday when Thomas joins Spieth and Brooks Koepka, 25, in a featured threesome at 1 p.m. on the first tee of the TPC Las Colinas course.
It will mark the first time for the friends to play in the same group at a PGA Tour event, and it will happen on a day when Spieth will be the focal point of hometown crowds eager to embrace him as the Masters champion.
“I don’t know who I made mad to get that pairing,” Thomas said, smiling. “It’s going to be pretty wild. It will be fun and probably the most people I’ve played in front of. That will be cool for me.”
Although designed as a showcase for Spieth, at least in the minds of Dallas-Fort Worth golf fans, Thursday’s featured grouping could just as easily turn into a career-building moment for Thomas (5-foot-10, 145 pounds).
A member of Alabama’s team that won the 2013 NCAA championship, Thomas ranks 77th in the world golf rankings and has collected five top-10 finishes at tour events this season.
He’s a strong contender for rookie of the year honors among tour players — an honor Spieth captured in 2013 — with $1,402,492 in 19 events. Thomas ranks 37th in earnings on the 2015 PGA Tour and trails only Daniel Berger ($1,645,568) among golfers who earned their tour cards based on their performance on the 2014 Web.com Tour.
“There’s no doubt in my mind he’ll eventually be a multiple winner on tour, including some of those big ol’ tournaments,” Alabama golf coach Jay Seawell said in a phone interview. “He’s good about getting himself in the mix. And when he gets there, the big moment is not too big for him.”
Asked about the possibility of a victory this season, Seawell said: “If you’re asking me to bet, I’d bet he will win this year. But those guys are pretty good out there. You can play great all week and still finish second.”
Thomas said he “would love to win” his first tour event at the Nelson, but he has learned to embrace patience since leaving Alabama after his sophomore season in 2013. He cited Spieth’s meteoric rise this season — with four victories in professional events since November — as a motivator.
“I learned last year it doesn’t matter what level you’re at, it’s difficult to win,” said Thomas, who claimed one title in 20 tries on the 2014 Web.com Tour. “It needs to be your week. But you don’t know if it’s going to be this week or in Augusta or if it’s going to be next year.
“If I just keep putting myself there, at some point, I would think it’s going to happen.”
Without question, Thomas would enjoy claiming a title in Spieth’s homecoming event. The two regularly prank one another at tour events, with the highest-profile example coming at this year’s Phoenix Open.
Thomas parked his courtesy car in a spot reserved for the late-arriving Spieth, then sent Spieth a Snapchat photo of his car with the message: “This is what happens when you get into a tournament late. You have to compromise.”
Spieth responded by arranging for valet attendants to move Thomas’ car to a nearby lot but to make it seem like the vehicle had been towed to an impound lot. Several frantic texts from Thomas later, Spieth let his friend in on the ruse.
“He was in a panic attack for a few hours, so that was worth it,” Spieth told reporters at the time.
Might Spieth be in for payback this week from a house guest whose college coach described Thomas as “a practical joker who loves to stir the pot?” Thomas smiled Tuesday when asked about the possibility.
“I don’t know. We’ll see,” Thomas said. “If I do, I’m not telling you guys. He’s going to find out on his own.”
Jimmy Burch, 817-390-7760
(Par 70, 7,166 yards), Irving
Purse: $7.1 million

