0 shares
(Ed Szczepanski, USA TODAY Sports)
The PGA Tour isn’t leaving the Lone Star state just yet. The pros will tee off in the Dallas area for the AT&T Byron Nelson at TPC Four Seasons in Los Colinas, Texas.
This par 70 stretches 7,166 yards and was redesigned in 2007 to feature major undulation on the putting surfaces and several water hazards to navigate. Precision ball striking and tidy putting will get the job done.
Fantasy owners may have a tougher time building against DFS pricing that is relative to the field’s scope of talent. Spend up, but there should be a lot of wiggle room for low-end buys to make up the difference in most contests.
Build around
Jordan Spieth : Dallas born, Spieth was T2 last week at Colonial after falling on his face during Day 2 competition. The resiliency is an intangible that only further endears him to fantasy owners.
Jason Day : Probably the best go-low in the field, or at least among the top three … Day is a past winner here (2010) and has carved up the course with top-10s in three of his last four appearances. The lone exception was just a T27 in 2013.
Jimmy Walker : Don’t be discouraged after last week’s debacle. Walker is too good and a proven winner in his home state. He easily could win this thing come Sunday afternoon. No. 1 in strokes gained: putting.
Dustin Johnson : Everyone knows he has the length to overpower any course, but this one will take most everything he has to offer within 100 yards. He certainly could hoist the trophy this year, but finishing in the top five is definitely within reach if a win isn’t automatic.
Brandt Snedeker : Even though he didn’t make the cut here in 2014, use last week’s performance as a barometer. As long as he doesn’t lose too many off the box, Sneds has arguably the best flat stick in this field (third in strokes gained: putting). He could win if he’s dialed in and Spieth or Day do not go bonkers.
Draws
Ian Poulter : No. 38 in greens in regulation and 18th in strokes gained: putting. While he isn’t winning tournaments, Poulter is consistently putting up the numbers needed as a No. 2 golfer in daily contests. Ride the hot streak by pairing him with Spieth, Day or DJ.
Brendon Todd : Last year’s winner also has a T17 under his belt from his 2013 efforts. He missed the cuts in his prior two attempts. Todd’s 86% cuts-made rate in 2014-15 and No. 20 ranking in strokes gained: putting are tough to ignore.
Russell Henley : A fresh face to the Byron Nelson, Henley has been as productive as any midrange player in his last four PGA events (T24, MC, 21, 4). Expect a respectable but not overwhelming performance. Ranks seventh in strokes gained: putting.
Join the daily baseball fun at FantasyScore.
Zach Johnson : Precision is the name of his game, and Johnson can do magical things if his putter is hot. His approach game tends to put him into the best situation to mask his on-green deficiencies.
George McNeill : Ranks 32nd in strokes gained: putting and has been on fire of late, with four top-20 finishes in his last seven starts, including a T5 last week at Colonial.
Justin Thomas : Pay for recent form. New to the track but has played so well that it’s tough seeing him not being in the conversation of viable DFS draws. A top-10 would be a fine result and somewhat of a fantasy victory.
Charlie Hoffman : He shot a 7-under 273 aggregate here in 2014 for a T8 and posted a T23 back in 2009. Last week’s play was encouraging, as well. Good middle-tier value.
Wild cards
Jason Dufner : Past winner. The price is right in most DFS contests … his game is largely a mess, but he can still net out as a four-day performer with No. 3 production. If owners are lucky, Duf will get on a hot streak and surprise.
Ryan Palmer : Texas native … used to playing in the local-area conditions and has thrived on this track (T22, T33, T9, 2) in his last four trips. Recent play is uninspiring.
Brian Harman : Probably doesn’t stand a snowball’s chance in Dallas to win it, but that shouldn’t be a consideration in why owners play him. Ranks 51st in SGP and has finished inside the top 30 each of the last two years at TPC Four Seasons.
Aaron Baddeley : Ranks 15th in strokes gained: putting. Generally plays well in Texas … has made only one of his last four cuts in 2015, but he’s cheap in most contests.
2/10
$9.00
$1
2/5
$4.50
$2
2/4
$7.20
$5
1/20
$18.00
Related News
Some of the best drivers in the Sprint Cup series have had issues taming the “Monster Mile,” but Jimmie Johnson isn’t one of them.
8hr
A change of scenery has helped the frustrating but talented player find his mojo.
8hr
The Ducks’ captain will lead the Flying V in Game 6.
126 shares
9hr
Steve takes a look at his three LABR teams. Time to examine yours, too.
279 shares
11hr
The former AL MVP gives the Texas Rangers another big bat in the lineup.
144 shares
One-Day Fantasy Baseball Games
Grueling fantasy baseball ends now! Play ONE-DAY FANTASY BASEBALL games with USA TODAY Sports. No obligations. Play when you want! Immediate 50% matching bonus on deposit.
Most Popular
144 shares
279 shares
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 114 other followers
Post to


Byron Nelson notebook: Jordan Spieth at the youth clinic, pairings, field changes and more
1/25
Andy Jacobsohn/Staff Photographer
Professional golfer Jordan Spieth reacts before attempting to drive a ball with a sized-down driver during a presentation by golf entertainer Dan Boever during the Byron Nelson Youth Golf Clinic at the TPC Four Seasons Resort Dallas at Las Colinas in Irving, Texas Tuesday May 26, 2015. (Andy Jacobsohn/The Dallas Morning News)
Updated:
Related
IRVING — Microphone in hand, Dallas native and 18-year PGA Tour veteran Harrison Frazar addressed about 400 onlookers at the annual AT&T Byron Nelson youth clinic by introducing his somewhat famous co-host.
“You guys know who that is, right?” Frazar said, motioning to Jordan Spieth. “So, a few weeks ago he won a tournament in Tampa, and was really good.”
Frazar, of course, jokingly buried the lead. Spieth did in fact win the Valspar Championship in Tampa, but a month later won a somewhat more famous tournament called the Masters.
Frazar did much of the talking while the crowd, which including almost as many enthralled adults as kids, got what they came to see: Spieth, up close and personal, shaping shots in both directions, bombing drives and collaborating with Frazar to give basic golf tips.
Spieth and Frazar later joined 2008 RE/MAX World Long Drive senior champion Dan Boever in hitting trick shots.
Spieth, noting his instructor Cameron McCormick in the crowd, passed on to the kids and adults the best advice he ever got from McCormick.
Spieth recalled that when he was younger, he wanted his swing to emulate those of Tiger Woods and Adam Scott’s.
Spieth said McCormick’s response was “Why? Your body is so different. You’re a different age. You’re a different height, different weight, it’s just not going to work that way.
“You’ve got to swing the way you swing. Swing the way your body allows you to swing, and then work every shot off of that. That’s probably the most important thing [to know] growing up.
“You’ve got to find something that works for you.”
When it rains
 
With the TPC Four Seasons at Las Colinas receiving about 12 inches of rain the past three weeks, the course can’t take much more.
“I played nine [holes] this morning, and the golf course is totally under water, not a dry spot in any fairway,” defending champion Brendon Todd said Tuesday. “The greens are holding up pretty well.”
It has rained 19 of the last 25 days in Dallas-Fort Worth. Forecasts call for up to 40 percent chance of rain with scattered thunderstorms in the afternoon and evening on Wednesday and Thursday. Rain chances with thunderstorms increase to 60 percent for Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
Preferred lies (lift, clean and place) will probably be in effect, although that decision has not been made. At last week’s Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial in Fort Worth, the preferred lies rule was in effect, including through the green on Sunday for the first time on tour since the 2009 Turning Stone Resort Championship.
“I’ve probably never seen a course that drenched,” Justin Thomas said of the TPC. “There’s nothing they can do about that at all.”
Featured pairings
Jordan Spieth, Justin Thomas and Brooks Koepka, 1 p.m. Thursday, No. 1 tee; 8 a.m. Friday, No. 10.
Jason Day, Brendon Todd and Keegan Bradley, 12:50 p.m. Thursday, No. 1; 7:50 a.m. Friday, No. 10.
Jimmy Walker, Dustin Johnson and Sangmoon Bae, 7:50 a.m. Thursday, No. 10; 12:50 p.m. Friday, No. 1.
Brandt Snedeker, Matt Kuchar and Zach Johnson, 8 a.m. Thursday, No. 10; 1 p.m. Friday, No.1.
Field changes
Alex Cejka, Scott Gardiner, Freddie Jacobson, Kevin Kisner, Jason Kokrak, Neal Lancaster and Chris Stroud have withdrawn.
--
Where: TPC Four Seasons Las Colinas, Irving
TV: Golf Channel (Thursday-Friday, 2-5 p.m.) Ch. 11 (Saturday-Sunday, 2-5 p.m.)
Purse: $7.1 million
Winner’s share: $1,278,000
Tickets: Daily Grounds tickets ($45) are available at ticketmaster.com or 214-373-8000, or Ticketmaster outlets at Foley's, Fiesta supermarkets, Majestic Theater and select Tower Records and FYE stores. Tickets are not sold at the gate.
Weather forecast
Today: 30 percent chance of thunderstorms mainly after 1 p.m. High of 87.
Thursday: 40 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Partly sunny with high near 85
Friday: 50 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Mostly cloudy with a high near 82.
Saturday: 50 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Mostly cloudy with a high near 83.
Sunday: 30 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Mostly cloudy with a high near 80.
Calendar
THURSDAY-SATURDAY — The Pavilion on Champions Way. Live concerts: Mockingbird Sun (Friday) and Le Freak (Saturday).
Parking
Free VIP Parking for Cadillac drivers at Lot 6 (North Lake College, 5001 N MacArthur Blvd) and a shuttle to and from the course.
Free parking at 3400 N. Walton Walker Blvd., Irving (the former Texas Stadium Red Lot).
Free shuttle service runs Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday from 6 a.m. to 90 minutes following conclusion of play and Friday-Saturday from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

