Yuan tops payments with China, Hong Kong in Asia Pacific-SWIFT
HONG KONG
HONG KONG May 27 The Chinese yuan has become the most used currency in Asia Pacific for payments with China and Hong Kong, having been placed fifth as recently as 2012, global transaction services organisation SWIFT said on Wednesday.
On average, 31 percent of payments in Asia Pacific with China and Hong Kong are now made in yuan, up from 7 percent in April 2012, SWIFT said.
Payments in yuan exchanged with China and Hong Kong within Asia Pacific increased by 327 percent in April from three years ago, surpassing the Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollar, U.S. dollar and Australian dollar.
Most Asian countries have moved from being low users of the yuan (under 10 percent) to medium users (10-50 percent, SWIFT said. Only nine out of 26 countries are considered low users compared to 19 in 2012.
The Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan were among six countries that were considered high users of the currency.
Overall, the yuan remained the fifth most active currency for global payments and accounted for 2.07 percent of payments worldwide in April.   (Reporting by Michelle Chen; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore )
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


By Sophia Yan   @sophia_yan
For years, China has been criticized for keeping its currency from strengthening too much against the dollar. But those days may be over -- the International Monetary Fund has declared that the yuan is "no longer undervalued."
"Appreciation over the past year has brought the exchange rate to a level that is no longer undervalued," according to an IMF statement.
China's yuan, also called the renminbi, has risen about 0.5% against the U.S. dollar in the last year.
The IMF's take on this marks a significant shift, and comes as Beijing continues to promote the yuan as a global reserve currency for central banks -- an alternative to the dollar.
China has historically kept tight control of its currency -- favorable exchange rates have helped boost exports and manufacturing over time. But China has continued to draw ire from the U.S. government for keeping it artificially low .
China continues to set its daily exchange rate, allowing the yuan to fluctuate within a fixed range. Beijing has begun to loosen its grip -- last year, the central bank doubled the permitted trading range for the yuan.
Still, the IMF is urging China "to achieve an effectively floating exchange rate within two to three years...[and] greater flexibility, with intervention limited to avoiding disorderly market conditions or excessive volatility," according to the statement.
Overall, the IMF is fairly optimistic that China is moving in the right direction, even as it forecasts slower economic growth at 6.8% this year, which is below the government's own 7% target.
A gradual slowing in the pace of growth is a "by-product of moving the economy away from the unsustainable growth pattern of the past decade," it said.
Stock markets in China posted neutral reactions Wednesday morning, with the Shanghai Composite up 0.2%.
Comments
Most Popular
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer . Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
.

