Yuan tops payments with China, Hong Kong in Asia Pacific-SWIFT
HONG KONG
HONG KONG May 27 The Chinese yuan has become the most used currency in Asia Pacific for payments with China and Hong Kong, having been placed fifth as recently as 2012, global transaction services organisation SWIFT said on Wednesday.
On average, 31 percent of payments in Asia Pacific with China and Hong Kong are now made in yuan, up from 7 percent in April 2012, SWIFT said.
Payments in yuan exchanged with China and Hong Kong within Asia Pacific increased by 327 percent in April from three years ago, surpassing the Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollar, U.S. dollar and Australian dollar.
Most Asian countries have moved from being low users of the yuan (under 10 percent) to medium users (10-50 percent, SWIFT said. Only nine out of 26 countries are considered low users compared to 19 in 2012.
The Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan were among six countries that were considered high users of the currency.
Overall, the yuan remained the fifth most active currency for global payments and accounted for 2.07 percent of payments worldwide in April.   (Reporting by Michelle Chen; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore )
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


PBOC sets China yuan at one-month low after IMF says currency “no longer undervalued” | South China Morning Post
CURRENCIES
PBOC sets China yuan at one-month low after IMF says currency “no longer undervalued”
PUBLISHED : Wednesday, 27 May, 2015, 12:03pm
UPDATED : Wednesday, 27 May, 2015, 12:11pm
Jeanny Yu
China’s central bank set the benchmark midpoint rate of its currency at the weakest level in a month against the US dollar on Wednesday, after the International Monetary Fund said in its report that the currency is no longer undervalued.
The People’s Bank of China set the midpoint rate at 6.1198 against the dollar, the weakest level since April 28. Traders are allowed to buy or sell the currency at a level 2 per cent above or below the midpoint rate on a daily basis.
The onshore yuan lost 0.03 per cent, or 19 basis points, to 6.2056 as of 11 am in the spot market, while the offshore yuan strengthened 0.02 per cent, or 15 pips, to 6.2079.
“The substantial real effective appreciation over the past year has brought the exchange rate to a level that is no longer undervalued,” the IMF said in its latest review of the Chinese economy released on Tuesday.
 
Send to a friend
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here .
Article to be sent:
To: *
From: *
SCMP.com SCMP Tablet Edition SCMP Mobile Edition 10-year news archive

