Yuan tops payments with China, Hong Kong in Asia Pacific-SWIFT
HONG KONG
HONG KONG May 27 The Chinese yuan has become the most used currency in Asia Pacific for payments with China and Hong Kong, having been placed fifth as recently as 2012, global transaction services organisation SWIFT said on Wednesday.
On average, 31 percent of payments in Asia Pacific with China and Hong Kong are now made in yuan, up from 7 percent in April 2012, SWIFT said.
Payments in yuan exchanged with China and Hong Kong within Asia Pacific increased by 327 percent in April from three years ago, surpassing the Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollar, U.S. dollar and Australian dollar.
Most Asian countries have moved from being low users of the yuan (under 10 percent) to medium users (10-50 percent, SWIFT said. Only nine out of 26 countries are considered low users compared to 19 in 2012.
The Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan were among six countries that were considered high users of the currency.
Overall, the yuan remained the fifth most active currency for global payments and accounted for 2.07 percent of payments worldwide in April.   (Reporting by Michelle Chen; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore )
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


5/26 Hong Kong's Hang Seng opens down 0.4% at 28,127.56
5/26
Share
By
AnjaniTrivedi
The yuan is now the region's leading currency for doing business with China, trumping the Japanese yen and the Hong Kong dollar as Beijing aggressively pushes its currency through international trade channels.
The currency now accounts for 31% of payments exchanged with China, up from 7% just three years ago, according to latest data from payments provider Society for World Interbank Financial Telecommunication.
As Asian countries increasingly trade directly with China and Hong Kong, the yuan is dominating as a payments currency. Its ascent comes as China opens clearing centers across the world, signs bilateral currency-swap deals and grants investment quotas to foreign investors. Data from Swift excludes central banks.
Last month, the yuan became one of the top currencies used by Canada for payments with China and Hong Kong. China recently appointed four clearing centers in the region, pushing forward the goal of making the currency more accessible and widely used. Data from Swift shows that the yuan accounts for more than 50% of payments exchanged between China and Singapore, Taiwan, South Korea and the Philippines.
Since 2012, of 26 countries in the region using the yuan for direct payments with China and Hong Kong, only nine are considered low users, compared with 19 in 2012.
The Chinese currency remains the fifth-most-used currency for global payments, accounting for just over 2% of payments across the world.
Write to Anjani Trivedi at anjani.trivedi@wsj.com
More from MarketWatch
Join the conversation
Copyright ©2015 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.

