2h
The California Highway Patrol has released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of NFL defensive end Ray McDonald on suspicion of child endangerment and domestic viole
Brad Barr/USA TODAY Sports
Speaking to reporters for the first time since draft-day trade speculation, Philip Rivers said he wants to stay with the Chargers long term, because "we haven't accomplished the ultimate goal."
AP Photo/Evan Vucci
Robert Griffin III has been returned to the starting quarterback role with the Redskins and says affecting change will come with a change in mentality, which he thinks has already begun.
Ken Blaze/USA TODAY Sports
6hPat McManamon
Josh McCown and Johnny Manziel are learning a new system with a new coordinator and new receivers, and it showed on the first day of Browns OTAs.
Harry How/Getty Images
Chargers safety Eric Weddle skipped the beginning of OTAs on Tuesday as he remains unhappy with his contract status, but coach Mike McCoy said the team isn't "waiting for anybody."
Thearon W. Henderson/Getty Images
14hJamison Hensley
On his brother's death bed, DeAndre Carter vowed to his brother that, no matter what, he was going to reach the NFL for both of them.
Play0:56
7hJeffri Chadiha
The pass-happy CFL could be just the place for ex-Rams draft pick Michael Sam to show NFL teams how good he can be at rushing the quarterback, Jeffri Chadiha writes.
2 Related
10h
Chicago won't take a cap hit for cutting Ray McDonald, but it will bear some responsibility. A fine, albeit not a substantial one, is on the horizon.
2 Related
Despite rumors that he might not show up for offseason workouts, Steelers receiver Antonio Brown joined his teammates Tuesday, saying he was "ready to play football."
Play1:48
2dJohn Clayton
On issues from Deflategate to Los Angeles relocation, NFL owners are showing how unity keeps them powerful, John Clayton writes. Plus: blocking extra points, the NFLPA's angle and more.
Charles LeClaire/USA TODAY Sports
15hJeremy Fowler
Coming off a career statistical season and with his supporting cast, Ben Roethlisberger has a chance to play at the level of his new contract.
Play1:58
The photo of J.J. Watt's bruise is nasty, but imagine playing with torn knee ligaments or a tooth stuck in your arm. Jeffri Chadiha recounts some memorable moments of athletes ignoring injuries.
1 Related
Louis Hoglund and the Pelican Rapids Press
2dRobert Demovsky
Moss met fan when she was 8 and he was a rookie with the Vikings, and the former star has kept in touch while she battled leukemia and a brain tumor.
Play4:00
1dPaul Lukas
ESPN athletics aesthetics expert Paul Lukas reveals his comprehensive updated hierarchy of pro football uniforms for the 2015 season, from best to worst (sorry, Jaguars).
3 Related
SAN FRANCISCO -- The California Highway Patrol has released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of NFL defensive end Ray McDonald on suspicion of child endangerment and domestic violence.
A woman, who is identified as the mother of the alleged victim, tells a dispatcher that McDonald is drunk during a 911 call about 3:41 a.m. PDT Monday.
According San Jose Mercury News, McDonald violently broke through a bedroom door to get to his ex-fiancée and their infant daughter. The 6-foot-3, 290-pound lineman then tried to take the baby from her before leaving, according to the report.
McDonald was later arrested at a San Jose, California, home on suspicion of assaulting a woman who was holding the couple's baby.
The caller says she wasn't at the home but that her daughter told her to call police, according to the recording.
Later in the day, the Chicago Bears released McDonald.
The arrest follows a pattern of similar incidents.
McDonald's agent, Tom Condon, has not returned multiple calls seeking comment.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
0 Shares

