Letter: Take Trans-Pacific Partnership off rapid track
I've study and heard a lot about the Trans Pacific Partnership and have come to the horrible conclusion that this most recent trade deal won't develop any jobs. In fact, a lot of us are likely going to have to take a spend reduce to compete with workers...
I've study and heard a lot about the Trans Pacific Partnership and have come to the horrible conclusion that this most recent trade deal won't develop any jobs. In fact, a lot of us are likely going to have to take a spend reduce to compete with workers in Vietnam and Malaysia.
You'd feel this would be sufficient to kill the deal, but instead they want to fast-track it. That signifies Congress would have to give a thumbs up or thumbs down with out providing any modifications, and just before they even know what is in the bill. Does that sound like a fantastic idea?
They never want an open debate mainly because they can't help their claim that this new trade deal would produce 650,000 jobs. The Washington Post looked into it and it turns out the real quantity of jobs we'd finish up with is closer to zero. Zero jobs. I'm making zero jobs writing this letter, and it didn't take an act of Congress.
The worst aspect is that some of us will undoubtedly endure. Who wins if you and I have to compete with Vietnamese workers who make less than $1 an hour? Are we really counting on persons there shopping for enough American-made automobiles to make up for the jobs we will eventually shed?
We can have a major discussion about no matter whether totally free trade costs jobs and cuts our spend. The problem with rapidly track is there will be no discussion. We'd just have to trust that everybody in Washington is performing the proper point when it comes to sending our jobs overseas. You want to close your eyes and hold hands with Congress although we all jump off the cliff? I did not feel so.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
11 April 2015 Saturday 18:42

