AP Photo
Sen. Tim Scott urges calm after video surfaces of fatal South Carolina police shooting
4/8/15 9:56 AM EDT
South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott is calling for peace and unity in his state following the death of Walter Scott. A video came to light Tuesday showing a white police officer in North Charleston shooting the 50-year-old African-American man eight times. The man appeared to be unarmed in the video, which the senator called “horrific” and “deeply troubling.”
“It is clear the killing of Walter Scott was unnecessary and avoidable, and my prayers are with the Scott family as they go through this ordeal. The swift action taken by [the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division] and the relevant authorities upon receiving the video shows the severity of this terrible event,” the Republican senator said in a statement released Wednesday morning.
Story Continued Below
Michael Slager, an officer in the North Charleston Police Department, was arrested Tuesday and charged with murder, according to SLED.
“I can tell you that as the result of that video and the bad decision made by our officer, he will be charged with murder,” North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey told reporters Tuesday. “When you’re wrong, you’re wrong. And if you make a bad decision — don’t care if you’re behind the shield or just a citizen on the street — you have to live by that decision.”
Scott, the lone African-American Republican in the Senate, urged calm among all of his constituents.
“With several protests planned today, I join community leaders in North Charleston in calling for peace. I understand the hurt, the frustration and the anger many are feeling today. But violence solves nothing,” he said in the statement.
“We must come together as a community, as a state, and as a nation in working to bring our communities together and rebuild trust,” he added.
Scott also tweeted about the news on Tuesday night, expressing anguish.
“My heart aches for the family and our North Charleston community. I will be watching this case closely,” he said.
Authors:

