Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
Braves lose 8-0 to Kershaw and Dodgers Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvATaV
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Braves lose 8-0 to Kershaw and Dodgers
AP 2:47 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
LOS ANGELES (AP) — The only positive thing the Atlanta Braves got out of Tuesday night's 8-0 thrashing by the Los Angeles Dodgers was a slick-fielding third baseman who two years ago burned them with a late-inning home run in the final game of the NL Division Series.
Juan Uribe's impending acquisition from the Dodgers in a multiplayer trade involving Braves infielder Alberto Callaspo hasn't officially been announced by either club, pending approval from Commissioner Rob Manfred. But a few Dodgers clubhouse attendants were cleaning out Uribe's locker after most of the reporters had left.
About 15 minutes before Clayton Kershaw made his first pitch to Jace Peterson, the Braves announced that Pedro Ciriaco was replacing Callaspo at third base and batting seventh. It was the second consecutive night that happened.
Callaspo, who played for the Los Angeles Angels from 2010-13, originally nixed the deal. A collective bargaining agreement provision states any player who became a major league free agent cannot be traded without his approval until after June 15. Callaspo agreed to a $3 million, one-year contract with the Braves in December after spending last season with Oakland.
"Unfortunately, it was found out about because he was taken out of the lineup. And that's the right way to do it," Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez said about 2 1/2 hours before the game. "You don't want a player that you're possibly going to trade get hurt. I talked to Albert this morning just before I came to the ballpark, and he's fine with it. It's all good. He's a good teammate and a popular guy in our clubhouse."
Uribe, who has the same agent as Callaspo, lost his starting job due to a hitting slump and the emergence of veteran Justin Turner and rookie Alex Guerrero, who has eight home runs in 83 at-bats.
"There are some things that some guys aren't going to like. And within our organization, I'm the guy who delivers that news and I'm the guy that writes that lineup," manager Don Mattingly said before the game. "Juan's a professional. And in professional sports, the guy that performs is the guy that plays."
Uribe, who helped the Dodgers win consecutive NL West titles after winning World Series rings with the Chicago White Sox in 2005 and San Francisco in 2010, is making $6,925,000 this year.
"I respect their decision," Uribe said through a translator. "One never knows what's going to happen. If I play for another team, then I play for another team. I can't control what happens. You have to take things as they come. It's happened to me before. One day you're here, one day you're not. Thank God there are other teams that are interested in me."
Uribe and his teammates had developed a strong bond during their four-plus seasons together, particularly Adrian Gonzalez and Yasiel Puig. One time when Uribe was victimized by a hidden-ball trick, Gonzalez went over to his locker and presented him with a shoe taped to a base, with a baseball inside the shoe.
"I'm not going to be able to charge room service to his room anymore," Gonzalez joked. "We had a little back and forth going on there. He's been great. Everybody here loves him. He'll definitely be missed, that's for sure."
Gonzalez became the 12th active player with 1,000 RBIs, when he hit his 10th homer of the season into the pavilion in left field on Julio Teheran's 85th and final pitch after Howie Kendrick's one-out single in the fifth.
Teheran (4-2) gave up eight runs and 10 hits in 4 1-3 innings against the two-time defending NL West champions, who have won four of five after getting swept in a three-game series at San Francisco by a combined margin of 10-0.
"It was one bad inning," Teheran said. "I'm going to have to keep working to get back to where I want to be, the way I was the last two years."
Kershaw (3-3) allowed four hits, struck out 10 and walked none while lowering his ERA to 3.86. The reigning NL MVP and three-time Cy Young Award winner is 16-0 with a 1.21 ERA in his last 20 starts against NL East teams.
"He didn't look like a guy who had a four-plus ERA coming in," Fredi Gonzalez said. "Maybe he's starting to get back on track a little bit."
Jonny Gomes was 0 for 3 against Kershaw with two strikeouts, and is now 2 for 16 lifetime against the left-hander with eight strikeouts.
"He was throwing 94-95. And when he gets that curve ball over, it makes for a long night because it makes his fastball that much better," Gomes said.
UP NEXT:
Braves: LHP Alex Wood (2-2) will be pitching on 10 days' rest after missing Friday's scheduled start against Milwaukee because of a stomach virus. In his eight starts, he has allowed two home runs in 47 innings — but will be facing a Dodgers offense that leads the NL with 61 homers. Wood allowed one earned run over seven innings in his previous start, a 5-3 win at Miami on May 16.
Dodgers: RHP Zack Greinke (5-1) has allowed just three earned runs in 28 1-3 innings over his last four starts, lowering his ERA to 1.48, but is winless in his last three outings.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


Sections
Email
Print
Kershaw's dominant start 1:46
5/26/15: Clayton Kershaw whiffs 10 batters while tossing seven scoreless innings in the win against the Braves
By Steve Bourbon / MLB.com |
0 COMMENTS
LOS ANGELES -- For everyone saying there's something wrong with Clayton Kershaw , the reigning NL MVP and Cy Young Award winner proved he can still be dominant in Tuesday night's 8-0 win over the Braves .
His ERA of 3.86 is much more mortal than the 1.77 and 1.83 he posted in 2014 and '13, respectively, and at 3-3 he's already lost as many games as he did last season.
But Kershaw and manager Don Mattingly are convinced there's nothing wrong.
Kershaw showed as much Tuesday as he struck out 10 hitters over seven scoreless innings in his third double-digit strikeout performance of the season.
Mattingly on Dodgers' 8-0 win
ATL@LAD: Mattingly on Kershaw, Dodgers' 8-0 win
5/26/15: Dodgers manager Don Mattingly talks about Clayton Kershaw's fantastic outing and the team's 8-0 win vs. the Braves
"It's been a lot of the same," Mattingly said. "Tonight he got the zeros, he got out of the [fifth] inning without anyone scoring. His stuff has been similar every time out. I feel like I've had to defend him, but he doesn't need defending. He's been throwing the ball well, and tonight he got the results."
Kershaw didn't allow a baserunner until the fifth inning, which was the only real threat he faced.
After a pair of singles, the Braves had runners on first and second with one out and a chance to cut into the deficit. Pedro Ciriaco hit a sharp grounder up the middle that could've ended the shutout, but Howie Kendrick made a diving stop for the out and kept runners from advancing. From there, Kershaw fanned Christian Bethancourt to end the inning.
Kendrick's diving stop
ATL@LAD: Kendrick nabs Ciriaco after great play
5/26/15: Howie Kendrick ranges to his left and makes a terrific diving stop, and throws to first to retire Pedro Ciriaco
"That fifth inning could have gotten away from me. I made some mistakes and Howie made a great play defensively," Kershaw said. "To get out of that unscathed was huge for me."
The Dodgers' ace seemed to thrive after getting out of the jam, as six of the final seven outs he recorded came via strikeout.
Kershaw even chipped in at the plate to help himself with an RBI single in the fourth inning to extend the Dodgers' lead to 6-0.
Kershaw's RBI single
ATL@LAD: Kershaw chips in with an RBI single to right
5/26/15: Clayton Kershaw lines an RBI single to right-center, driving in the Dodgers' sixth run of the inning
Kershaw was able to work in his devastating curveball, which sits around 20 mph slower than his fastball, and he kept Braves hitters off balance all night. Kershaw and Mattingly both noted that his curveball was much sharper than it was in Thursday's outing in San Francisco, where he surrendered four runs in a loss to the Giants.
This was the first time this season he's allowed fewer than two runs and the first time he paired double-digit strikeouts with zero walks.
"He's the best pitcher in the game, and when he's out there we know we can win some games," first baseman Adrian Gonzalez said.
And as for all of those doubters, Kershaw isn't even listening.
"People are going to have opinions, which is great, and people have high expectations of me, which is great, too," he said. "But at the end of the day, I only care about what my coaches and teammates think."
Steve Bourbon is an associate reporter for MLB.com. This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

