Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
Braves lose 8-0 to Kershaw and Dodgers Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvATaV
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Braves lose 8-0 to Kershaw and Dodgers
AP 2:47 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
LOS ANGELES (AP) — The only positive thing the Atlanta Braves got out of Tuesday night's 8-0 thrashing by the Los Angeles Dodgers was a slick-fielding third baseman who two years ago burned them with a late-inning home run in the final game of the NL Division Series.
Juan Uribe's impending acquisition from the Dodgers in a multiplayer trade involving Braves infielder Alberto Callaspo hasn't officially been announced by either club, pending approval from Commissioner Rob Manfred. But a few Dodgers clubhouse attendants were cleaning out Uribe's locker after most of the reporters had left.
About 15 minutes before Clayton Kershaw made his first pitch to Jace Peterson, the Braves announced that Pedro Ciriaco was replacing Callaspo at third base and batting seventh. It was the second consecutive night that happened.
Callaspo, who played for the Los Angeles Angels from 2010-13, originally nixed the deal. A collective bargaining agreement provision states any player who became a major league free agent cannot be traded without his approval until after June 15. Callaspo agreed to a $3 million, one-year contract with the Braves in December after spending last season with Oakland.
"Unfortunately, it was found out about because he was taken out of the lineup. And that's the right way to do it," Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez said about 2 1/2 hours before the game. "You don't want a player that you're possibly going to trade get hurt. I talked to Albert this morning just before I came to the ballpark, and he's fine with it. It's all good. He's a good teammate and a popular guy in our clubhouse."
Uribe, who has the same agent as Callaspo, lost his starting job due to a hitting slump and the emergence of veteran Justin Turner and rookie Alex Guerrero, who has eight home runs in 83 at-bats.
"There are some things that some guys aren't going to like. And within our organization, I'm the guy who delivers that news and I'm the guy that writes that lineup," manager Don Mattingly said before the game. "Juan's a professional. And in professional sports, the guy that performs is the guy that plays."
Uribe, who helped the Dodgers win consecutive NL West titles after winning World Series rings with the Chicago White Sox in 2005 and San Francisco in 2010, is making $6,925,000 this year.
"I respect their decision," Uribe said through a translator. "One never knows what's going to happen. If I play for another team, then I play for another team. I can't control what happens. You have to take things as they come. It's happened to me before. One day you're here, one day you're not. Thank God there are other teams that are interested in me."
Uribe and his teammates had developed a strong bond during their four-plus seasons together, particularly Adrian Gonzalez and Yasiel Puig. One time when Uribe was victimized by a hidden-ball trick, Gonzalez went over to his locker and presented him with a shoe taped to a base, with a baseball inside the shoe.
"I'm not going to be able to charge room service to his room anymore," Gonzalez joked. "We had a little back and forth going on there. He's been great. Everybody here loves him. He'll definitely be missed, that's for sure."
Gonzalez became the 12th active player with 1,000 RBIs, when he hit his 10th homer of the season into the pavilion in left field on Julio Teheran's 85th and final pitch after Howie Kendrick's one-out single in the fifth.
Teheran (4-2) gave up eight runs and 10 hits in 4 1-3 innings against the two-time defending NL West champions, who have won four of five after getting swept in a three-game series at San Francisco by a combined margin of 10-0.
"It was one bad inning," Teheran said. "I'm going to have to keep working to get back to where I want to be, the way I was the last two years."
Kershaw (3-3) allowed four hits, struck out 10 and walked none while lowering his ERA to 3.86. The reigning NL MVP and three-time Cy Young Award winner is 16-0 with a 1.21 ERA in his last 20 starts against NL East teams.
"He didn't look like a guy who had a four-plus ERA coming in," Fredi Gonzalez said. "Maybe he's starting to get back on track a little bit."
Jonny Gomes was 0 for 3 against Kershaw with two strikeouts, and is now 2 for 16 lifetime against the left-hander with eight strikeouts.
"He was throwing 94-95. And when he gets that curve ball over, it makes for a long night because it makes his fastball that much better," Gomes said.
UP NEXT:
Braves: LHP Alex Wood (2-2) will be pitching on 10 days' rest after missing Friday's scheduled start against Milwaukee because of a stomach virus. In his eight starts, he has allowed two home runs in 47 innings — but will be facing a Dodgers offense that leads the NL with 61 homers. Wood allowed one earned run over seven innings in his previous start, a 5-3 win at Miami on May 16.
Dodgers: RHP Zack Greinke (5-1) has allowed just three earned runs in 28 1-3 innings over his last four starts, lowering his ERA to 1.48, but is winless in his last three outings.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


AP
+
AP
     
 
Big leads aren't common to Clayton Kershaw , who has lost more than his share of low-scoring duels over the years despite all the hardware he has earned. So when he gets as much run support as he did Tuesday night he tries to show his appreciation to his teammates.
Kershaw combined with two relievers on a five-hitter and capped a six-run fourth inning with an RBI single, Adrian Gonzalez notched his 1,000th RBI with a two-run homer, and the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the Atlanta Braves 8-0.
"You never want to relax, regardless. You never want to take your foot off the gas," Kershaw said. "I mean, when you have six or seven runs to work with, you definitely have more margin for error. But you don't want to walk guys and make your defense be out there for a long time. So you just stay aggressive -- attack, attack, attack -- and see what happens."
Kershaw (3-3) allowed four hits, struck out 10 and walked none while lowering his ERA to 3.86. The reigning NL MVP and three-time Cy Young Award winner is 16-0 with a 1.21 ERA in his last 20 starts against NL East teams.
"He didn't look like a guy who had a 4-plus ERA coming in," Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez said. "Maybe he's starting to get back on track a little bit."
Kershaw retired his first 12 batters -- including Pedro Ciriaco and Jace Peterson, who tried to bunt their way on leading off the third and fourth innings, respectively. Jonny Gomes was 0 for 3 against the left-hander with two strikeouts, and is 2 for 16 lifetime against Kershaw with 8 strikeouts.
"He was throwing 94 (mph), 95. And when he gets that curveball over, it makes for a long night because it makes his fastball that much better," Gomes said.
Julio Teheran (4-2) gave up eight runs and 10 hits in 4 1-3 innings against the two-time defending NL West champions, who have won four of five after getting swept in a three-game series at San Francisco by a combined margin of 10-0.
One night after they hit three home runs in the eighth inning against reliever Nick Masset in a series-opening 6-2 win, the Dodgers gave Kershaw plenty of support with their most productive inning of the season. It included RBI doubles from Howie Kendrick and A.J. Ellis , a two-run double by Andre Ethier , and a run-scoring single by Justin Turner in addition to Kershaw's first RBI of 2015.
"It was one bad inning," Teheran said. "I'm going to have to keep working to get back to where I want to be, the way I was the last two years."
Adrian Gonzalez became the 12th active player with 1,000 RBIs, when he hit his 10th homer of the season into the pavilion in left field on Teheran's 85th and final pitch after Kendrick's one-out single in the fifth.
"A thousand obviously is an accomplishment. It means you've been in the league for a little while," Gonzalez said. "Just got to thank God for the opportunity to stay healthy and have the amount of at-bats so I could get there. It does definitely mean a lot. Career wise I'd like to see 1,500."
Ciriaco was a late addition to the Braves' lineup, after third baseman Alberto Callaspo was scratched for the second straight night with the Braves trying to engineer a multiplayer trade with the Dodgers for third baseman Juan Uribe . According to MLB.com, Callaspo told the Braves that he was willing to accept the trade, which is awaiting the approval of Commissioner Rob Manfred.
The Braves wouldn't comment afterward, and no one in the Dodgers' organization confirmed the trade, either. But a few clubhouse attendants were cleaning out Uribe's locker after most of the reporters had left.
"I'm not going to be able to charge room service to his room anymore," Gonzalez joked. "We had a little back and forth going on there. He's been great. Everybody here loves him. He'll definitely be missed, that's for sure."
UP NEXT
Braves: LHP Alex Wood (2-2) will be pitching on 10 days' rest after missing Friday's scheduled start against Milwaukee because of a stomach virus. In his eight starts, he has allowed two home runs in 47 innings -- but will be facing a Dodgers offense that leads the NL with 61 homers. Wood allowed one earned run over seven innings in his previous start, a 5-3 win at Miami on May 16.
FOX SPORTS DAILY
MLB TEAM EDITION
CHOOSE YOUR TEAM(S)
*By clicking "SUBSCRIBE", you have read and agreed to the Fox Sports Privacy Policy and Terms of Use .
Dodgers: RHP Zack Greinke (5-1) has allowed just three earned runs in 28 1-3 innings over his last four starts, lowering his ERA to 1.48, but is winless in his last three outings.
0 Comments
You may use your Facebook account to add a comment on FoxSports.com , subject to Facebook's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Your Facebook name, photo, other personal information you make public on Facebook and comment will appear on FoxSports.com , and may be used on Fox Sports' other media platforms. Any questions?
FOXSports.com >
Other FOX Sites >
©2015 Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

