Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
Braves lose 8-0 to Kershaw and Dodgers Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvATaV
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Braves lose 8-0 to Kershaw and Dodgers
AP 2:47 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
LOS ANGELES (AP) — The only positive thing the Atlanta Braves got out of Tuesday night's 8-0 thrashing by the Los Angeles Dodgers was a slick-fielding third baseman who two years ago burned them with a late-inning home run in the final game of the NL Division Series.
Juan Uribe's impending acquisition from the Dodgers in a multiplayer trade involving Braves infielder Alberto Callaspo hasn't officially been announced by either club, pending approval from Commissioner Rob Manfred. But a few Dodgers clubhouse attendants were cleaning out Uribe's locker after most of the reporters had left.
About 15 minutes before Clayton Kershaw made his first pitch to Jace Peterson, the Braves announced that Pedro Ciriaco was replacing Callaspo at third base and batting seventh. It was the second consecutive night that happened.
Callaspo, who played for the Los Angeles Angels from 2010-13, originally nixed the deal. A collective bargaining agreement provision states any player who became a major league free agent cannot be traded without his approval until after June 15. Callaspo agreed to a $3 million, one-year contract with the Braves in December after spending last season with Oakland.
"Unfortunately, it was found out about because he was taken out of the lineup. And that's the right way to do it," Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez said about 2 1/2 hours before the game. "You don't want a player that you're possibly going to trade get hurt. I talked to Albert this morning just before I came to the ballpark, and he's fine with it. It's all good. He's a good teammate and a popular guy in our clubhouse."
Uribe, who has the same agent as Callaspo, lost his starting job due to a hitting slump and the emergence of veteran Justin Turner and rookie Alex Guerrero, who has eight home runs in 83 at-bats.
"There are some things that some guys aren't going to like. And within our organization, I'm the guy who delivers that news and I'm the guy that writes that lineup," manager Don Mattingly said before the game. "Juan's a professional. And in professional sports, the guy that performs is the guy that plays."
Uribe, who helped the Dodgers win consecutive NL West titles after winning World Series rings with the Chicago White Sox in 2005 and San Francisco in 2010, is making $6,925,000 this year.
"I respect their decision," Uribe said through a translator. "One never knows what's going to happen. If I play for another team, then I play for another team. I can't control what happens. You have to take things as they come. It's happened to me before. One day you're here, one day you're not. Thank God there are other teams that are interested in me."
Uribe and his teammates had developed a strong bond during their four-plus seasons together, particularly Adrian Gonzalez and Yasiel Puig. One time when Uribe was victimized by a hidden-ball trick, Gonzalez went over to his locker and presented him with a shoe taped to a base, with a baseball inside the shoe.
"I'm not going to be able to charge room service to his room anymore," Gonzalez joked. "We had a little back and forth going on there. He's been great. Everybody here loves him. He'll definitely be missed, that's for sure."
Gonzalez became the 12th active player with 1,000 RBIs, when he hit his 10th homer of the season into the pavilion in left field on Julio Teheran's 85th and final pitch after Howie Kendrick's one-out single in the fifth.
Teheran (4-2) gave up eight runs and 10 hits in 4 1-3 innings against the two-time defending NL West champions, who have won four of five after getting swept in a three-game series at San Francisco by a combined margin of 10-0.
"It was one bad inning," Teheran said. "I'm going to have to keep working to get back to where I want to be, the way I was the last two years."
Kershaw (3-3) allowed four hits, struck out 10 and walked none while lowering his ERA to 3.86. The reigning NL MVP and three-time Cy Young Award winner is 16-0 with a 1.21 ERA in his last 20 starts against NL East teams.
"He didn't look like a guy who had a four-plus ERA coming in," Fredi Gonzalez said. "Maybe he's starting to get back on track a little bit."
Jonny Gomes was 0 for 3 against Kershaw with two strikeouts, and is now 2 for 16 lifetime against the left-hander with eight strikeouts.
"He was throwing 94-95. And when he gets that curve ball over, it makes for a long night because it makes his fastball that much better," Gomes said.
UP NEXT:
Braves: LHP Alex Wood (2-2) will be pitching on 10 days' rest after missing Friday's scheduled start against Milwaukee because of a stomach virus. In his eight starts, he has allowed two home runs in 47 innings — but will be facing a Dodgers offense that leads the NL with 61 homers. Wood allowed one earned run over seven innings in his previous start, a 5-3 win at Miami on May 16.
Dodgers: RHP Zack Greinke (5-1) has allowed just three earned runs in 28 1-3 innings over his last four starts, lowering his ERA to 1.48, but is winless in his last three outings.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


Dodgers 8, Braves 0
LOS ANGELES -- First baseman Adrian Gonzalez homered and topped 1,000 career RBIs, and ace Clayton Kershaw fanned 10, sparking the Los Angeles Dodgers to an 8-0 rout of the Atlanta Braves before 40,667 fans at Dodger Stadium on Tuesday night.
Gonzalez, who went 1-for-3 with two RBIs, smacked a 0-1 pitch from Braves starter Julio Teheran into the seats in left to become the 12th active player to reach the RBI milestone. His teammates forced him to the dugout steps to acknowledge the curtain call from the fans.
Right fielder Andre Ethier also drove in a pair of runs, going 1-for-4 with a double.
Kershaw (3-3), who didn't walk a batter, blanked the Braves on four hits in seven innings. The reigning Cy Young winner and National League MVP retired the first 12 hitters he faced before right fielder Nick Markakis led off the fifth with a single.
Markakis had three of Atlanta's five hits.
Teheran (4-2) lasted just 4 1/3 innings, knocked around for eight runs on 10 hits with three walks (one intentional) and a strikeout. Teheran coasted through the first three innings with little trouble, but the Dodgers nailed him for six runs in the fourth, a season high for them in an inning, to break the contest open.
Second baseman Howie Kendrick ignited the Dodgers' outburst in the fourth, lining an RBI single in the gap in left-center to score shortstop Jimmy Rollins for a 1-0 lead.
After an intentional walk to Gonzalez, third baseman Justin Turner singled down the right-field line to plate Kendrick for a 2-0 advantage.
Right fielder Andre Ethier followed with a two-run double to make it 4-0. Catcher A.J. Ellis doubled home Ethier for another run before Kershaw drove in Ellis with a base hit for a 6-0 cushion.
Gonzalez delivered a two-run shot -- his 10th home run this season -- in the fifth to add to the Braves' misery.
NOTES: Dodgers manager Don Mattingly and Braves skipper Fredi Gonzalez refused to address numerous reports of a pending multi-player trade involving Los Angeles 3B Juan Uribe and Atlanta INF Alberto Callaspo. Callaspo, who was a late scratch Tuesday for the second game in a row, reportedly spiked the deal. "It is a business, and these guys know it," Mattingly said. Meanwhile, Gonzalez said he spoke with Callaspo earlier in the day. "Albert's fine; he's good," Gonzalez said. "I'm good with him." ... Braves LHP Alex Wood (2-2, 3.83 ERA) will start against Dodgers RHP Zack Greinke (5-1, 1.48 ERA) in the series finale Wednesday.
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

