 |  By                                                                      SARA BURNETT AND SOPHIA TAREEN
Posted:
6 minutes ago
In this Wednesday, April 1, 2015 photo, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel speaks at a African-American Women for Rahm luncheon in Chicago. (AP Photo/M. Spencer Green) | ASSOCIATED PRESS
CHICAGO (AP) -- Mayor Rahm Emanuel took the stage in an ornate hotel ballroom in downtown Chicago one day this week where roughly 1,400 African-American women had gathered for a lunch and campaign rally. Playing to the crowd, he stressed the important role women had played in his life, his voice cracking when he got to his immigrant grandmother. He nodded to his mother, seated in the audience.
"My mother taught me to fight for what I believe in," he said to cheers.
Later that night the former White House chief of staff was in a union hall several miles to the south, talking up his family's immigrant roots and the value of Chicago's diversity before Latino voters.
With a runoff election between Emanuel and challenger Jesus "Chuy" Garcia set for Tuesday, Chicago voters are being treated to something they haven't seen in a long time: a mayor actually having to work to win re-election.
Emanuel's predecessor, Richard M. Daley, barely broke a sweat during most of his campaigns over more than 20 years in office. But Emanuel failed to win a majority in a five-candidate field in February, prompting the first mayoral runoff since Chicago switched to nonpartisan elections two decades ago. Since then he's spent more shoe leather and millions of dollars trying to avoid another embarrassing election day showing.
A recent Chicago Tribune poll showed Emanuel with a more than 20-point lead over Garcia. Yet even Emanuel's supporters offer endorsements that sound a little like they're swallowing a dose of medicine that tastes bad, but they know is good for them.
"He may not be right on everything, but he is necessary," Tanya Hunter, of Grandmothers for Rahm, told the crowd at Wednesday's women's luncheon, where speaker after speaker defended Emanuel's decision to close about 50 schools largely in minority neighborhoods as beneficial for student achievement in the long run.
Garcia, a county commissioner from a working class neighborhood, was recruited by the Chicago Teachers Union to challenge Emanuel, with whom the union clashed during a 2012 strike. He is backed by several progressive organizations who say the mayor is too cozy with big business. Garcia has criticized Emanuel for his top-down approach, saying the mayor doesn't listen to people and isn't connected to day-to-day life in Chicago's neighborhoods.
Garcia scoffed at the latest polls, saying his volunteers will mobilize supporters for a strong showing again.
Voters are "tired of the wrong priorities of this administration," Garcia said. "People are excited that there's a runoff in the city of Chicago, and that's contagious."
Emanuel, who has raised millions more than Garcia for his campaign, relied heavily on an expensive television advertising campaign in the first-round election. Now, a surge of volunteers makes phone calls and knocks on doors each weekend, and has made contact with voters more than one million times, campaign spokesman Steve Mayberry said.
A union representing airport and convention workers has cut ads in which workers thank Emanuel for bringing more convention business to the city - what they describe in the ads as "Rahm Love."
The mayor, known for his sometimes abrasive personality, acknowledges there's room for improvement in his leadership.
"Chicago is a great city, but we can be even better," Emanuel says. "And yeah, I hear you - so can I."
Emanuel's criticism of Garcia has centered on his lack of a plan for dealing with Chicago's huge financial problems, which include the worst-funded pension systems of any major U.S. city. Garcia has said he needs to audit the city's books before he can say how he'd fix things, and wants to appoint a commission to help find a solution.
The mayor also has questioned whether Garcia could stand up to the labor unions that have backed him.
Some voters say regardless of what happens Tuesday, the runoff has been good for Chicago.
William McNary, 62, who voted for Emanuel in 2011 but is backing Garcia this time, points to Emanuel's announcement that he'll remove 50 of the city's red-light cameras, a controversial and unpopular program the mayor previously had defended.
Before Garcia's surprisingly strong challenge, "This is a mayor who's never admitted he made a mistake before," said McNary.
Both candidates have focused heavily on winning minority voters. At the luncheon for African-American women, Emanuel framed his decision to close schools against what he said were student gains in test scores and attendance.
Still, some in the group weren't convinced.
---
Also on HuffPost:
of


Charlotte mayor Dan Clodfelter speaks during an event on Sept. 24, 2014 at the Siemens Charlotte Energy Hub in Charlotte, N.C. (Jason E. Miczek / AP Images for Siemens)
San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer speaks before the California Republican Party 2014 Spring Convention Friday, March 14, 2014, in Burlingame, Calif. (AP Photo/Ben Margot)
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel speaks to members of the Safe Passage program during a training session at Chicago State University in Chicago, Wednesday, Aug. 21, 2013. (AP Photo/Scott Eisen)
San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee speaks to reporters during a news conference after Asiana Flight 214 crashed at San Francisco International Airport in San Francisco, Saturday, July 6, 2013. (AP Photo/Darryl Bush)
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti speaks in front of city hall after being sworn in on Sunday, June 30, 2013. (AP Photo/Mark J. Terrill)
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio sits on stage during the swearing in ceremony for New York City's 42nd police commissioner William Bratton at One Police Plaza on January 2, 2014. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
President Barack Obama, right, meets with Houston Mayor Annise Parker during his arrival at Ellington Airport, Friday, March, 9, 2012, in Houston. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais)
Indianapolis Mayor Greg Ballard talks the plans for the city to bid for the NFL football's 2018 Super Bowl as Allison Melangton, left, chair the 2018 Super Bowl Bid Committee, watches during an announcement in front of the downtown skyline in Indianapolis, Friday, Aug. 30, 2013. (AP Photo/Michael Conroy)
Mike Duggan celebrates his election as the new mayor of Detroit at a victory party at the Renaissance Center November 5, 2013 in Detroit, Michigan. (Photo by Bill Pugliano/Getty Images)
Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter speaks about ways to reduce U.S. murder and gun violence rates and other issues affecting urban communities at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C., September 26, 2013. (SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images)
Oscar Leeser poses during the reception for Hyundai Hope on Wheels and CHOC Children's Foundation's Change the World Campaign on May 10, 2011 in Orange, California. (Photo by Ryan Miller/Getty Images)
Phoenix Mayor Greg Stanton speaks at a press conference to introduce Brittney Griner (not pictured) of the Phoenix Mercury at U.S. Airways Center on April 20, 2013 in Phoenix, Arizona. (Photo by Christian Petersen/Getty Images)
U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, right, with Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings, left, discusses the implementation of the federal health care overhaul in Dallas, Texas, on Thursday, September 26, 2013. (AP Photo/Nomaan Merchant)
This April 22, 2011 file photo shows San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed speaking during the 8th Annual CEO Summit at IBM offices in San Jose, Calif. (AP Photo/Paul Sakuma, File)
Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, left, leads a meeting with Austin, Texas, Mayor Lee Leffingwell, second from left, and City Manager Marc Ott, right, and others at City Hall in Austin, Texas, on Thursday, Aug. 8, 2013. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Jay Janner)
Jacksonville mayor Alvin Brown speaks to the media during the Road to Daytona Fueled By Sunoco Tour stop at City Hall on February 12, 2013 in Jacksonville, Florida.  (Photo by Sam Greenwood/Getty Images for NASCAR)
Mayor Michael Coleman of Columbus, Ohio speaks to members of the media outside the West Wing during a news briefing after a meeting with President Barack Obama at the White House December 12, 2012 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price looks on during a press conference before the start of the 2013 Mayor's Cup on July 26, 2013 at Texas Motor Speedway in Fort Worth, Texas.  (Photo by Cooper Neill/Getty Images for Texas Motor Speedway)
Memphis Mayor AC Wharton encourages Memphians to sign up for the Affordable Care Act during a rally at the Central Library in Memphis, Tenn. Monday, Sept. 30, 2013. (AP Photo/The Commercial Appeal, Jim Weber)
 Share
 Tweet
More:
Conversations
Options
Politics
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Politics
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Politics
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

