Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
She calls it "a painful time."
Post to Facebook
Bristol Palin breaks silence on canceled wedding She calls it "a painful time." Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1Hv7tcR
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
26
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Bristol Palin breaks silence on canceled wedding
Andrea Mandell , USA TODAY 8:30 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
Bristol Palin and Dakota Meyer.
(Photo: AFP/Getty Images)
The title of Bristol Palin's latest blog post sums it up: "The Wedding That Didn't Happen."
Bristol, 24, was set to marry U.S. Marine Dakota Meyer, 26, over Memorial Day weekend but canceled the nuptials a week ago. Some speculated the wedding was called off because Meyer allegedly had hidden a previous marriage to another woman, but the Palin family dismissed the rumors.
Now, Bristol is speaking out.
❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
"I guess you have seen by now that the wedding — that was supposed to happen last weekend — was called off," Bristol writes . "I'm sure you've seen this has been all over the media, but this is a painful time for family and friends and I would just really appreciate your prayers."
Meanwhile, Sarah Palin announced on Facebook the couple's families still planned to gather with invited guests at the former groom's Kentucky farm (also the canceled wedding location) "to celebrate life, in general!" for a barbecue over the long weekend.
enjoying this beautiful weekend in AK ❤️❤️
Sarah Palin also issued comment to People from her daughter about the breakup rumors. "Regarding salacious headlines in recent days about 'secret wives,' Dakota and I discussed our past relationships prior to our engagement," said Bristol in a statement.
Details as to why the wedding was called off remain undisclosed. Over the weekend, Bristol shared photographs of herself back home in Alaska with her young son, Tripp.
"I know God's plan is greater than anything else, and Tripp and I are in Alaska beginning to rebuild our lives under much different circumstances than we anticipated," she concluded in her post. "Thank you for all of your love and support."
Stop growing my little chicken nugget 😩😖 only thing I need in life ❤️❤️ #threepostsoneday #askmehowmuchicare
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1Hv7tcR
TOP VIDEOS
May 26, 2015

