Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Gun background check bill sent to floor of Oregon Senate on party-line vote
prozanski2.JPG
Oregon Sen. Floyd Prozanski, D-Eugene, appears with supporters of his gun bill after chairing a hearing on the legislation last week at the Capitol in Salem. (Jeff Mapes|The Oregonian)
A bill that would expand the use of criminal background checks on gun purchases in Oregon was passed out of the Senate Judiciary Committee Monday on a party-line vote of 3-2.
Senate Bill 941  now heads to the Senate floor, where Democratic sponsors are confident they have the votes needed for passage. Similar bills failed to clear the Senate in both 2013 and 2014 when Democrats had a smaller majority.
Sen. Jeff Kruse, R-Roseburg, who along with Keizer Republican Kim Thatcher voted against the measure, served notice that they may seek passage of a substitute bill on the floor.
Several groups supporting tighter gun laws are seeking passage of the measure , saying it closes a big loophole in Oregon law.  Gun-rights groups charge that the state's system of background checks are already flawed and that this will further burden law-abiding gun owners.
Under the measure, background checks would be extended to cover sales and other transactions between private parties. The bill contains exemptions for family members, guns lent for hunting purposes and several other circumstances.
The measure would require that individuals involved in a private gun sale go to a licensed gun dealer, who would then conduct the background check through the state police.   Oregon law prohibits people from possessing firearms if they are a felon, had a mental health commitment, been convicted of a domestic abuse misdemeanor and for several reasons.
Senate Bill 941 also makes clear that a judge can prohibit gun ownership for an individual ordered to receive outpatient mental health treatment.
Oregon would be the 12th state to require universal background checks on firearms transactions.  Another six states require checks on all handgun sales but not for long guns.
Thatcher on Monday said she wasn't able to quickly put together what she thought would be a workable alternative -- have Oregon driver licenses and ID cards carry a mark noting whether or not someone could legally purchase a firearm.  That turns out to be complicated and expensive, she said.
--Jeff Mapes
© 2015 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

