NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
FIFA Officials Arrested on Corruption Charges; Face Extradition to U.S.
FIFA, a multibillion-dollar organization that governs soccer but has been plagued by accusations of bribery for decades, had several top officials arrested early Wednesday. Credit Fabrice Coffrini/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
Advertisement
ZURICH — Swiss authorities began an extraordinary early-morning operation here Wednesday to arrest several top soccer officials and extradite them to the United States on federal corruption charges.
As leaders of FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, gathered for their annual meeting, Swiss law enforcement officials arrived unannounced at the Baur au Lac hotel, an elegant five-star property with views of the Alps and Lake Zurich. The arrests were made at the request of the United States Justice Department, which brought charges in the Eastern District of New York, based in Brooklyn, according to law enforcement officials.
Prosecutors planned to unseal an indictment soon against more than 10 officials, not all of whom are in Zurich, three law enforcement officials said. The charges include wire fraud, racketeering and money laundering.
The arrests were a startling blow to FIFA, a multibillion-dollar organization that governs the world’s most popular sport but has been plagued by accusations of bribery for decades.
The inquiry is also a major threat to Sepp Blatter, FIFA’s longtime president who is generally recognized as the most powerful person in sports, though law enforcement officials said he was not charged. An election, seemingly pre-ordained to give him a fifth term as president, is scheduled for Friday.
The case is the most significant yet for United States Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch, who took office last month. She previously served as the United States attorney in Brooklyn, where she supervised the FIFA investigation.
With more than $1.5 billion in reserves, FIFA is as much a global financial conglomerate as a sports organization. With countries around the world competing aggressively to win the bid to host the World Cup, Mr. Blatter has commanded the fealty of anyone who wanted a piece of that revenue stream. He and FIFA have weathered corruption controversies in the past, but none involved charges of federal crimes in a United States court.
United States law gives the Justice Department wide authority to bring cases against foreign nationals living abroad, an authority that prosecutors have used repeatedly in international terrorism cases. Those cases can hinge on the slightest connection to the United States, like the use of an American bank or Internet service provider.
Switzerland’s treaty with the United States is unusual in that it gives Swiss authorities the power to refuse extradition for tax crimes, but on matters of general criminal law, the Swiss have agreed to turn people over for prosecution in American courts.
The case further mars the reputation of FIFA’s leader, Mr. Blatter, who has for years acted as a de facto head of state. Politicians, star players, national soccer officials and global corporations that want their brands attached to the sport have long genuflected before him.
Critics of FIFA point to the lack of transparency regarding executive salaries and resource allocations for an organization that, by its own admission, had revenue of $5.7 billion from 2011 to 2014. Policy decisions are also often taken without debate or explanation, and a small group of officials — known as the executive committee — operates with outsize power. FIFA has for years operated with little oversight and even less transparency. Alexandra Wrage, a governance consultant who once unsuccessfully attempted to help overhaul FIFA’s methods, famously labeled the organization “byzantine and impenetrable.”
Michael S. Schmidt and Sam Borden reported from Zurich, Switzerland; Matt Apuzzo from Washington; and William K. Rashbaum from New York.
Loading...


A
A
A
Share this URL
FADEL SENNA/AFP/Getty Images
FIFA president Sepp Blatter could see his organization in turmoil as the arrest of some top officials wil be announced on Wednesday morning in New York.
World soccer’s notoriously corrupt governing body, FIFA, is headed for turmoil when U.S. law enforcement officials from the Eastern District of New York, in conjunction with Swiss authorities, announce the arrests of as many as 10 top executives following an investigation that has been ongoing since at least 2011. The arrests are expected to be announced in New York Wednesday morning by top federal officials.
The FBI and IRS probe, first described last November in the Daily News , is now primed to explode into global view days before longtime FIFA boss Sepp Blatter is expected to be coronated for a fifth presidential term, according to sources familiar with the investigation.
The arrests, believed to be taking place overseas, are expected to be announced in Brooklyn at a press conference at the U.S. Attorney’s Office held by Attorney General Loretta Lynch, formerly the U.S. Attorney out of the Eastern District, FBI director James Comey and IRS commissioner Josh Koskinen, whose agencies led the U.S. arm of the investigation.
The investigation, believed to have uncovered evidence of tax evasion, money laundering, racketeering and wire fraud, took off in the aftermath of a 2010 vote by FIFA executives to award host nation rights for the 2018 and 2022 World Cup tournaments to Russia and Qatar, respectively.
Blatter, a 79-year-old Swiss, was not expected to be arrested, according to one source familiar with the investigation, although it was possible that those collared may include his top lieutenants and the leadership of his opaque and fabulously wealthy organization.
The action comes just as FIFA’s executive committee, known as the Ex-Co, is preparing to gather ahead of the presidential election Friday. After FIFA’s 209 member nations cast their votes, the Ex-Co is scheduled to meet Saturday at FIFA’s lavish headquarters in Zurich.
The federal investigation of FIFA has been underway since at least late 2011, when agents first approached Chuck Blazer, an American FIFA executive committee member who later became a cooperating witness for the feds.
New York Daily News
Front page of the New York Daily News for November 2, 2014.
The News first reported last fall that the Eastern District was heading the investigation in the U.S. in cooperation with Swiss authorities and that Blazer secretly recorded his fellow soccer executives during the London Games in 2012, where he set up meetings with many of them, and in New York and other cities.
FIFA’s Ex-Co has been rocked by scandal in recent years. Still Blatter has survived, and his only challenger in Friday’s election is former FIFA vice president Prince Ali bin al Hussein of Jordan, who this week issued a statement saying “the self-serving policies and controversial leadership style of FIFA today have disempowered our national associations, hurt our sport and cost us our dignity.”
Any arrests would throw the election into turmoil and would be expected to affect Blatter’s chances to be elected or if he is elected, to serve out his term.
“Even if they can’t get Blatter on anything this time, just the hint of impending charges raises the question of how can you elect him?” asked one source familiar with the corruption suspicions and allegations that have long swirled around the FIFA Ex-Co.
In the most recent claim of corruption, recent media reports say the election team behind bin al-Hussein has been in contact with the police after claiming it had been approached in April by a person who said he could deliver 47 votes at Friday’s election. According to The Guardian, the individual also offered to provide “what appeared to be illegally obtained” information relating to the financial activities of Blatter.
ESPN’s Jeremy Schaap reported this month that Blatter has declined to enter the U.S. since 2011, ostensibly for fear of possible arrest. Blatter’s avoidance of U.S. soil coincides with the time period when Blazer, who also the secretary general of the powerful North American and Caribbean soccer federation known as CONCACAF, became a cooperating witness for the investigation.
AFP/AFP/Getty Images
Chuck Blazer, seen here in 2012, says Blatter is 'afraid to come to the U.S.'
Blazer, who has been seriously ill the last year and remains hospitalized in the New York area, is believed to have provided the feds with enough information into the shadowy financing of international soccer to keep Blatter out of the U.S., presumably aware that he could be pulled into the ongoing federal criminal probe.
Blazer lived an extravagant lifestyle based at CONCACAF’s offices in Trump Tower, where for years he worked closely with the organization’s president, his former friend and ally Jack Warner of Trinidad. Both Warner and Blazer were forced out of their CONCACAF roles in 2011, turning on each other amid a bribery scandal involving votes for the FIFA presidency, which Blatter won.
Soon after, pressure from the FBI and IRS led the once-corpulent Blazer to lend his heft to an investigation into the financing and politics of international soccer, going so far as to help the feds spy on his fellow sport executives at the London Games in 2012, using a tiny microphone hidden in the specially altered fob of his keychain. Blazer, who authorities believe amassed a fortune, much of which traveled through offshore bank accounts, was replaced on the FIFA executive committee in 2013.
Blazer’s cooperation is thought to have offered law enforcement a rare view of the shadowy deal-making that accompanies the bidding for rights to host FIFA’s World Cup tournament — an almost incalculably valuable privilege bestowed through the votes of FIFA’s executive committee.
The irregularities around the 2010 voting that decided the locales for the World Cup tournaments forced FIFA to open its doors to an ethics investigation by former U.S. Attorney Michael Garcia. Garcia ultimately resigned in protest after his two-year probe ran into the resistance of FIFA leaders to release the report publicly.
According to a source familiar with Blazer’s activities, Blatter became uncomfortable about visiting the U.S. as early as 2006, when a federal judge in New York ruled against FIFA in a lawsuit brought against the Switzerland-based organization by MasterCard.
In that case, Blatter asked Blazer to represent FIFA in the lawsuit for a simple reason: “He’s afraid to come to the U.S.,” Blazer told the source.
Comments
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

