NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
FIFA Officials Arrested on Corruption Charges; Face Extradition to U.S.
FIFA, a multibillion-dollar organization that governs soccer but has been plagued by accusations of bribery for decades, had several top officials arrested early Wednesday. Credit Fabrice Coffrini/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
Advertisement
ZURICH — Swiss authorities began an extraordinary early-morning operation here Wednesday to arrest several top soccer officials and extradite them to the United States on federal corruption charges.
As leaders of FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, gathered for their annual meeting, Swiss law enforcement officials arrived unannounced at the Baur au Lac hotel, an elegant five-star property with views of the Alps and Lake Zurich. The arrests were made at the request of the United States Justice Department, which brought charges in the Eastern District of New York, based in Brooklyn, according to law enforcement officials.
Prosecutors planned to unseal an indictment soon against more than 10 officials, not all of whom are in Zurich, three law enforcement officials said. The charges include wire fraud, racketeering and money laundering.
The arrests were a startling blow to FIFA, a multibillion-dollar organization that governs the world’s most popular sport but has been plagued by accusations of bribery for decades.
The inquiry is also a major threat to Sepp Blatter, FIFA’s longtime president who is generally recognized as the most powerful person in sports, though law enforcement officials said he was not charged. An election, seemingly pre-ordained to give him a fifth term as president, is scheduled for Friday.
The case is the most significant yet for United States Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch, who took office last month. She previously served as the United States attorney in Brooklyn, where she supervised the FIFA investigation.
With more than $1.5 billion in reserves, FIFA is as much a global financial conglomerate as a sports organization. With countries around the world competing aggressively to win the bid to host the World Cup, Mr. Blatter has commanded the fealty of anyone who wanted a piece of that revenue stream. He and FIFA have weathered corruption controversies in the past, but none involved charges of federal crimes in a United States court.
United States law gives the Justice Department wide authority to bring cases against foreign nationals living abroad, an authority that prosecutors have used repeatedly in international terrorism cases. Those cases can hinge on the slightest connection to the United States, like the use of an American bank or Internet service provider.
Switzerland’s treaty with the United States is unusual in that it gives Swiss authorities the power to refuse extradition for tax crimes, but on matters of general criminal law, the Swiss have agreed to turn people over for prosecution in American courts.
The case further mars the reputation of FIFA’s leader, Mr. Blatter, who has for years acted as a de facto head of state. Politicians, star players, national soccer officials and global corporations that want their brands attached to the sport have long genuflected before him.
Critics of FIFA point to the lack of transparency regarding executive salaries and resource allocations for an organization that, by its own admission, had revenue of $5.7 billion from 2011 to 2014. Policy decisions are also often taken without debate or explanation, and a small group of officials — known as the executive committee — operates with outsize power. FIFA has for years operated with little oversight and even less transparency. Alexandra Wrage, a governance consultant who once unsuccessfully attempted to help overhaul FIFA’s methods, famously labeled the organization “byzantine and impenetrable.”
Michael S. Schmidt and Sam Borden reported from Zurich, Switzerland; Matt Apuzzo from Washington; and William K. Rashbaum from New York.
Loading...


More
More
Times points
HI,
Breaking News:
AFP | May 27, 2015, 08.54 AM IST
RELATED
ZURICH: Sepp Blatter goes into one of the toughest days of his 40 years at football's governing body revered by some as the beautiful game's 'Jesus' and scorned by others as a rogue clinging to power.
The 79-year-old, favourite to win a fifth term as president of FIFA in a vote on Friday, has divided the world's most popular sport as it again struggles to cast off the shadow of scandal.
The Swiss official believes however that his jealous rivals no longer apply the notion of fair play in their backroom battles with him.
"In my 40 years at FIFA I have learned to live with hostility and resentment," he said recently.
"However as the German language proverb puts it: sympathy is free, but envy must be earned."
There is a lot to envy.
Being head of FIFA for 17 years has elevated Blatter to 70th place in the Forbes list of the world's most powerful people -- the only sports leader in the group jostling behind the likes of Vladimir Putin and Barack Obama.
The former amateur footballer -- an old fashioned striker -- joined FIFA in 1975 from a post marketing Swiss watches.
He became secretary general in 1981 and was elected to the top job in 1998 after the man he had served faithfully Brazilian Joao Havelange, no stranger to controversy himself, finally ended his 24 year reign.
Blatter, who also worked as a public relations official for a Swiss tourism department and as general secretary of the Swiss ice hockey federation, claims credit for building up much of FIFA's financial muscle.
When he joined FIFA it was in a small Zurich building with about 10 staff. One story says that it was Blatter who went to the bank to get a loan when they could not be paid.
But FIFA made about $5.7 billion (5.3 billion euros) in the four years between the 2010 and 2014 World Cups.
Football's world body now has 1,400 staff and is sitting on a cash mountain of about $1.5 billion -- about enough to pay the bills if a World Cup had to be called off.
The workaholic Blatter says his main achievement has been to make football "universal" -- the first World Cups in Asia (South Korea and Japan in 2002 although the decision was taken before he became president) and Africa (2010) came in his tenure.
Hundreds of millions of dollars are given to national federations and in development grants.
But since the day he took office, accusations of skulduggery have never been far away from FIFA. The latest are over the awarding of the 2018 and 2022 World Cups to Russia and Qatar.
Blatter also told UEFA, the European confederation in 2011 that if elected then it would be his last term.
But the FIFA president has never been implicated in wrongdoing and he has always shrugged off controversy -- apart from one episode in 2006 when he tried to stop a book on FIFA being published in Switzerland,
And so the football world is divided.
Dominican Republic FA president Osiris Guzman last month took the term flattery to a new level when he compared Blatter to Jesus, Winston Churchill, Moses, Abraham Lincoln and Martin Luther King as the Central and North American confederation (CONCACAF) pledged support to his campaign.
Asia and Africa have also declared strong public support for Blatter against his challenger Prince Ali bin al Hussein, brother of Jordan's monarch.
But Europe has turned against him. UEFA leader Michel Platini says Blatter lied when he said in 2011 that he would stand down this time.
Platini says Blatter made some good decisions "often in difficult circumstances" but that now he can't bear to face a life of "emptiness" without FIFA's power and money.
Blatter, married three times and now helped a lot by his daughter Corinne, says he feels fit enough to go on.
Four years ago, Blatter thought it was his last mandate, he told reporters recently. But "times change", he added.
Why does he keep getting re-elected?
"He has a way of making people dependent or indebted to him, but not in a way that people regret it," one Blatter confidant told AFP.
"These people know where they are with Blatter.
"They don't know where they will be with someone else."
Follow TOI Sports on Twitter >>> @TOISportsNews
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms?alias=UEFA,Sepp Blatter,Michel Platini,Joao Havelange,FIFA
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.
Get updates on the most important happening of the day
ALSO ON TOI
Search for News
Be the first one to review.
We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message
Connect with us
Login
It seems you are already registered with us. Please enter your account details below:
User Name:
From Sports
Across Times of India
Trending Topics
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Submit button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Out of context/Spam
Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.

