Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Groups targeting Portman, other GOP senators on Lynch
Black women’s groups are targeting Republican senators, like Portman, to confirm Loretta Lynch as attorney general.
Post to Facebook
Groups targeting Portman, other GOP senators on Lynch Black women’s groups are targeting Republican senators, like Portman, to confirm Loretta Lynch as attorney general. Check out this story on bucyrustelegraphforum.com: http://ohne.ws/1D1JL9W
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Deborah Barfield Berry 6:21 p.m. EDT April 3, 2015
Groups are targeting Republican senators, such as Ohio’s Rob Portman, to confirm the nomination of Loretta Lynch for attorney general.
(Photo: AP File Photo)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
WASHINGTON – Black women’s groups, civil rights organizations and religious leaders say they’ll lobby Republican senators over the congressional recess to back swift action to confirm Loretta Lynch as attorney general.
“Hopefully, with the right amount of pressure, we’re at least able to get her nomination on the floor for a vote,” said Waikinya Clanton, executive director of the National Organization of Black Elected Legislative Women. “There’s no legitimate reason for her not to be confirmed. ... They can expect some calls, some meetings, some drop-bys.”
The groups are targeting Sen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio, and other senators who say they’re still weighing whether to vote for Lynch’s confirmation to succeed Eric Holder as attorney general.
Clanton’s group kicked off a Twitter campaign Monday urging its 250 members to contact senators, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. Other efforts include visits to district offices, phone calls and letters.
The Senate adjourned for a two-week recess last Friday without taking up Lynch’s nomination. Lynch, who would be the first African-American woman to serve as attorney general, was nominated by President Barack Obama in November.
“We felt like it wasn’t a fair thing to do,” Melanie Campbell, president of the National Coalition on Black Civic Participation, said of the Senate’s decision to recess without acting on Lynch. The Senate Judiciary Committee voted last month to approve her nomination.
Campbell’s group and others are urging McConnell to make Lynch’s confirmation vote a priority when Congress returns — and not to tie it to other action. McConnell has said he is waiting for the Senate to first act on a human trafficking bill that has stalled over Democratic objections to an anti-abortion provision.
Campbell and other women who participated in a national conference of the Black Women’s Roundtable last week prayed outside McConnell’s office.
“He’s got the power,” Campbell said of McConnell.
Some Republicans have said they oppose Lynch’s nomination because she has said she mostly supports Obama’s executive action shielding millions of undocumented immigrants from deportation.
“I cannot support an attorney general nominee who is willing to engage in, or permit, discretionary enforcement of the law,” Republican Sen. Roger Wicker of Mississippi said.
Portman’s office said Thursday the senator is still weighing Lynch’s nomination.
“He met with Ms. Lynch last month,” said Portman spokesman Michael Haidet. “It was a good meeting, and he is still considering her nomination.”
The civil rights and other groups also are targeting GOP Sens. Thad Cochran of Mississippi, Mark Kirk of Illinois, Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska.
“It’s absolutely essential that this two-week recess be used to reach these members where they live and work,” said Wade Henderson, president of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. “What you’re seeing is a very strong grass-roots response to the need to really impress upon members that there are no free rides.”
More Stories

