Just after foreign policy stumbles, Walker goes abroad
MADISON, Wis. (AP) — Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker is becoming anything of a globe-trotter as globe affairs loom significant in the 2016 Republican presidential race and focus has been drawn to his early foreign policy stumbles.He's off Friday on a week-lengthy...
MADISON, Wis. (AP) — Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker is becoming anything of a globe-trotter as globe affairs loom significant in the 2016 Republican presidential race and focus has been drawn to his early foreign policy stumbles.
He's off Friday on a week-lengthy visit to Germany, France and Spain, and in Might plans to go to Israel, a touchstone for lots of U.S. politicians with presidential aspirations. Meantime his political group, Our American Revival, has bulked up on staffers to coach Walker on foreign policy, a gap in his resume as he considers entering the GOP presidential contest.
Walker faltered through a London trip in February, refusing to answer queries about foreign policy through an look at an international affairs feel tank and dodging inquiries about evolution. Back at household, in an otherwise well-received speech to conservative activists, he drew ridicule when he recommended that his political fight with labor union protesters in Wisconsin helped prepare him to combat international terrorism as president.
When Walker mentioned this week he would revoke a nuclear deal with Iran on his first day in the White Home, President Barack Obama stated the governor must "bone up on foreign policy."
Walker known as that remark "unbelievable."
The governor has had less practical experience abroad than numerous of his prospective 2016 rivals. He didn't travel overseas at all the initially two years he was governor, or in 2014 when operating for re-election. In 2013, he went to China and Japan.
Walker's trip to Europe is a trade mission, with two public events planned in Germany and the rest of his meetings behind closed doors.
"To me, if you're doing your job effectively, naturally there's a political benefit," he told The Linked Press. "Talking about something other than trade issues connected to the state is not suitable.
"Beyond that, if I was just on a political trip overseas, I still wouldn't speak about that. I am old school. I believe in that tradition when you're on foreign soil you should not be speaking about foreign affairs," he said.
That tradition is generally understood to imply that U.S. politicians, whilst abroad, do not criticize U.S. foreign policy or the president, not that they decline to discuss international affairs.
Lanhee Chen, a Republican strategist who served as policy director for Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential campaign, thought Walker's travel was a excellent thought.
"The trip is useful in terms of building relationships and getting the expertise of becoming abroad," Chen mentioned. "I don't seriously see any dangers."
Walker met British Prime Minister David Cameron in his London trip.  Walker mentioned the focus of his very first check out to Israel will be to get a superior understanding of the problems facing the Middle East by meeting Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and other officials.
Netanyahu, who has repeatedly criticized the emerging U.S. deal with Iran to curb that nation's nuclear system, has turn into a preferred of lots of Republican politicians.
The governor plans to return from Europe earlier than the rest of the trade delegation so he can join other GOP presidential hopefuls for a political event April 18 in New Hampshire.
———
Stick to Scott Bauer on Twitter at https://twitter.com/sbauerAP
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
Ad Soyad:
 
UYARI: Küfür, hakaret, rencide edici cümleler veya imalar, inançlara saldırı içeren, imla kuralları ile yazılmamış, Türkçe karakter kullanılmayan ve tamamı büyük harflerle yazılmış yorumlar onaylanmamaktadır. Ayrıca suç teşkil edecek hakaret içerikli yorumlar hakkında muhatapları tarafından dava açılabilmektedir.
Breaking News Headlines
Related Breaking News

