Posted: Wednesday, May 27, 2015, 1:08 AM
The championship LeBron James craves more than any other, the one he came back home to get, is within reach.
The Cavaliers are in the NBA Finals.
James scored 23 points, Kyrie Irving added 16, providing a boost after missing two games, and Cleveland reserved a spot in the Finals with a 118-88 victory over the Atlanta Hawks on Tuesday night to win the Eastern Conference title.
By sweeping the top-seeded Hawks, the Cavs earned their second trip to the Finals, where they will face either Golden State or Houston starting June 4.
More coverage
 
It will be the fifth straight visit to the league's showcase event for the inimitable James, who returned to Cleveland after four years in Miami to try to  end the city's championship drought dating to 1964. The Cavs are four wins from doing it, and if they can, James will have a title that would put him in a class by himself. Other players have won more championships, but none has ever done it for his ring-starved home region.
"We have everything it takes to win," James said after the Cavs were presented with the conference trophy.
Jeff Teague scored 17 and Paul Millsap 16 for Atlanta, which won a team-record 60 games during the regular season and made the conference finals for the first time since 1970. But the Hawks were no match for the Cavaliers and had no answer for James, who nearly averaged a triple-double in the four games.
J.R. Smith added 18 points and Tristan Thompson had 16 points and 11 rebounds for the Cavs.
Standing at center court, James turned to Smith and reminded him there was work still undone.
"Four more," James said.
The Cavs got through the last two rounds without forward Kevin Love, who suffered  a season-ending shoulder injury. His arrival last summer, joining James and Irving to form a Big Three, made Cleveland the team to beat in the East.
It didn't go exactly as planned under first-year coach David Blatt, who left his family in Israel to take the Cavs job.
"We're in Cleveland," Blatt cracked. "Nothing is easy here."
Warriors-Rockets
Stephen Curry and the Golden State Warriors get another chance to close out the Rockets on Wednesday night at home and advance to the franchise's first NBA Finals in 40 years.
"It could have been a lot worse," Curry said of his frightening fall in Game 4.
Warriors coach Steve Kerr said Curry was  doing just fine - other than the bruise on his head - and should be ready to go for Game 5.
The Rockets' Dwight Howard avoided being suspened for Game 5 when the NBA did not upgrade his flagrant 1 foul on Andrew Bogut to a flagrant 2.
We encourage respectful comments but reserve the right to delete anything that doesn't contribute to an engaging dialogue.
Help us moderate this thread by flagging comments that violate our guidelines .
Comment policy:
Philly.com comments are intended to be civil, friendly conversations. Please treat other participants with respect and in a way that you would want to be treated. You are responsible for what you say. And please, stay on topic. If you see an objectionable post, please report it to us using the "Report Abuse" option.
Please note that comments are monitored by Philly.com staff. We reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable. Personal attacks, especially on other participants, are not permitted. We reserve the right to permanently block any user who violates these terms and conditions.
 
CARS:
Newsletter
Get the latest Sports Wrap Up newsletter delivered to your email. Sign up now!

