Illinois' marijuana pilot program expires at the end of 2017.
Recent
Recent
RECENT
Recent
Recent
FEATURED
MORE
MORE
RECENT
Saved
»
Sen. Jason Holsman, D-Kansas City, gets some jambalaya at the Missouri Restaurant Association's "Taste of the Rotunda" dinner in the Capitol on March 31. Photo by Virginia Young.
Senate leader says lawmakers shouldn’t be precluded from becoming lobbyists. Read more
JEFFERSON CITY • The Missouri House passed an ethics bill Thursday that would impose a $25 cap on lobbyists’ gifts to legislators and require legislators to wait one year after leaving office to become lobbyists.
Republicans said the bill would help change the image of public officials as being too cozy with special interests.
A $25 limit on individual gifts “puts us in line with the vast majority of states,” said Rep. Jay Barnes, R-Jefferson City. Voters “do not expect us to live completely monastic lives. But at the same time, they don’t want people who come up here and forget why they’re here.”
The bill, which won approval on a vote of 132-14, now returns to the Senate, which has passed a different version. The two chambers must reconcile their differences before the measure goes to the governor’s desk. The legislative session ends May 15.
Missouri has no limits on campaign contributions, no restrictions on gifts from lobbyists and no required cooling-off periods for legislator-lobbyists, a status that critics have compared to being the Wild West for money in politics.
While the House bill may not be “the greatest ethics bill in the universe,” said Majority Leader Todd Richardson, R-Poplar Bluff, it is “a step in the right direction.”
Democrats were less enthusiastic.
“On a scale of one to 10, I’d call it a one,” said House Minority Leader Jake Hummel, D-St. Louis.
So long as donors can give unlimited sums to political campaigns — including by secretly channeling money through sham nonprofits — the system is ripe for abuse, they said.
“You’re kidding yourself if you think checks with six or seven digits don’t have some unintended impact” — or intended impact, said Rep. Kevin McManus, D-Kansas City.
House Speaker John Diehl, R-Town and Country, said bills requiring disclosure of campaign donations by nonprofits could still surface in another bill. The ethics bill was purposely limited to improve its chances of passage, he said.
When bills are loaded up, legislators “love them to death, where it gets so big that nothing happens,” Diehl said. “We’re serious about wanting to see these things happen. That’s why we did these in a limited, targeted way.”
Diehl said the House strengthened the Senate plan by making current legislators subject to the one-year cooling-off period before they could become lobbyists.
The Senate bill exempted all current legislators from its proposed two-year waiting period; only legislators serving their first terms starting in January 2017 would be affected.
The Senate version of the bill would not cap gifts from lobbyists.
Instead, the Senate wants to make it easier for constituents to find out if their legislators are being wined and dined. Lobbyists could no longer report that they bought dinner for a House or Senate committee without naming the individual recipients.
In 2014, lobbyists reported spending more than $500,000 for gifts and meals for legislative committees or the entire General Assembly. The individual recipients of those freebies could not be tracked.
Some House members questioned the need to cap lobbyist gifts, especially if campaign checks flow without limits. Rep. Brandon Ellington, D-Kansas City, asked which was more problematic: free tickets to a ballgame or a $15,000 campaign donation?
Another question was whether the $25 cap on gifts would actually prohibit legislators from receiving expensive ballgame tickets and meals.
The bill says lobbyists and the companies or groups that hire them could not “knowingly or willfully make any single expenditure over the amount of $25” to public officials or the officials’ staffers or immediate family members.
So could four lobbyists each pay $25 for a legislator’s $100 dinner?
“That’s certainly not the intent,” Richardson told reporters.
The bill is SB11 .
vyoung@post-dispatch.com
Copyright 2015 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with www.stltoday.com account:
Username & Password Required!

