Top Stories in US & World
Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
Top Stories in Lifestyle
Jobs
Lone Star College can put you on fast track to new career
Top Stories in Jobs
New Camry XSE aimed at drivers seeking sporty flair, luxury
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
Martinez approves majority of bills passed in Legislature
By VIK JOLLY, Associated Press | April 10, 2015 | Updated: April 10, 2015 7:38pm
Page 1 of 1
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — Republican Gov. Susana Martinez took action on some 170 of about 190 bills passed during the 60-day legislative session by the noon Friday deadline, capping a discordant 60-legislative session.
Her signature on a bill that keeps police from seizing money or assets from people unless convicted of a crime was hailed by civil rights advocates as historic.
Martinez wrote in her signing message that she understands the importance of putting safeguards to protect constitutional rights.
"On balance, the changes made by this legislation improve the transparency and accountability of the forfeiture process and provide further protections to innocent property owners," she said.
However, she also made clear she does not care for the term "policing for profit" used by backers to describe the legislation, calling it a catch phrase that "improperly questions (law enforcement officers') motives and disregards their desire to serve and protect."
"It is also dangerous to discount the role that funds acquired through forfeitures have played in keeping our communities safe and in protecting our officers from harm," she added.
Martinez vetoed more than a dozen bills outright and did not take action on about 20 others, which resulted in them being pocket vetoed.
Senate Democrats criticized her vetoes contending in a statement the actions will not help economic development or create jobs.
They pointed to vetoes on what they said were bipartisan bills, including one allowing research for future industrial hemp production, accountability for the state's troubled cash-balances, and other measures.
"With her vetoes today she is impeding our progress to make things better for the people of our state," Senate Majority Leader Michael Sanchez , D-Belen, said in a statement.
In most of her public appearances since the legislative session ended March 21, Martinez has criticized the Senate majority for delaying and obstructing key House priorities.
This was the first time in six decades that the GOP gained control of the New Mexico House , while Democrats maintained their edge in the Senate.
A number of Republicans-sponsored bills ran aground in the Senate during a largely rancorous session, including a right-to-work initiative, a ban on late-term abortions and repealing the law allowing driver's licenses for people in the county illegally.
Martinez used her line item veto pen to strike $1.3 million from funds for the state Public Defender's Office and $750,000 from the magistrate courts before she put her signature on a $6.2 billion budget bill Thursday.
Senate Democrats complained of Martinez taking out language from the budget bill "that would have allowed for the state to balance its chaotic cash balances sooner rather than later."
"New Mexico is the only state in the nation that does not know what is in its checkbook, with an estimated $101 million in state funds that have not been reconciled," they said in a statement.
For her part, Martinez said in her budget bill message that she vetoed the language because it enacted "overly restrictive reporting requirements on the executive branch."
In signing the key $6.2 billion spending plan, Martinez told reporters she and her staff had been busy spending long hours reading, reviewing and debating legislation.
"There's a lot of discussion that goes on into these things," she said. "These are laws, laws that will be implemented. We sit until the wee hours of the morning working and show up first thing in the morning and continue to do so."
Featured Galleries
Top Stories and In-Depth Investigative Journalism
exclusively on
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

