Supporters of Barronelle Stutzman, a 70-year-old florist in Richland, Washington, have donated more than $94,000 to a GoFundMe campaign that seeks “to protect Barronelle and her livelihood.”
“[Robert] said he decided to get married, and before he got through I grabbed his hand and said, ‘I am sorry. I can't do your wedding because of my relationship with Jesus Christ,’" Stutzman told KEPR in 2013.
Ingersoll told the Tri-City Herald that Stutzman’s decision thoroughly shocked the couple .
"It really hurt because it was somebody I knew," Ingersoll said. "We laid awake all night Saturday. It was eating at our souls. There was never a question she'd be the one to do our flowers. She does amazing work."
Last month, a judge ruled that Stutzman's refusal to sell flowers to Ingersoll and Freed violated the Washington Law Against Discrimination, which makes bias based on sexual orientation illegal. She was ordered to pay a $1,000 fine, plus $1 for court costs and fees .
Following the ruling, Stutzman’s legal team said that the fine, together with additional penalties and fees, would “financially devastate Barronelle’s business and personal assets.”
Thanks in part to the promotional efforts of conservative talk radio host Dana Loesch , the GoFundMe campaign in support of Stutzman went viral this past week. Thus far, more than 2,300 people have donated money to the florist.
As the Seattle Times points out, this campaign bears similarities to a fundraiser launched for Memories Pizza , an Indiana pizzeria that closed after its owners said the restaurant would not cater a gay wedding in light of the state’s Religious Freedom Restoration Act . The owners said they shut their doors after receiving threatening messages. A GoFundMe campaign for the pizzeria raised more than $842,000 in four days.
Also on HuffPost:
of


In June 2012, Oreo posted a photo of a rainbow sextuple-stacked cookie to its Facebook page in honor of Pride month. While the responses were mostly positive, some commenters were outraged, even calling for a boycott of the product.
The staple of American domesticity is part of the General Mills family of products, which has been boycotted by the National Organization for Marriage for opposing the Minnesota Marriage Amendment. What better way to celebrate the stand against intolerance than Betty Crocker's Rainbow Chip cake?  Correction on July 24 at 1:35pm ET: The original version of this slideshow misidentified the name of the Minnesota Marriage Amendment. It has been corrected on this slide and several others throughout the slideshow.
In 1992, Levi's found itself at odds with the Boy Scout's 'Three Gs' principle that had guided the Scouts' membership model for more than 80 years -- that everyone is welcome, provided they are not gay, godless, or a girl. San Francisco-based Levi's pulled its Boy Scout funding, due to the group's exclusion. In response, Republican Dana Rohrabacher encouraged a 'grassroots' counter-boycott of Levi Strauss and his Texan colleage, Tom DeLay, was even more extreme in his reaction: "When Texans find out that the Levi's they have on go toward attacks on the Boy Scouts of America... they'll take off those Levi's and burn them in the streets."
Not only will this breakfast cereal reduce your family's cholesterol but it will reduce your family's moral integrity as well, according to The National Organization for Marriage. As part of the General Mills family of products, Cheerios is one of the brands that has been boycotted by NOM for opposing the Minnesota Marriage Amendment.
In 2009, American Apparel put its "Legalize Gay" t-shirt in storefront windows in Washinton, D.C. When a group of anti-LGBT vandals broke the store's windows, the company didn't back down, but rather agreed to send shirts to any group in D.C. that was fighting for gay rights.
Although Walt Disney World's Gay Days are not officially sanctioned by the theme park, they were the object of a Florida Family Association warning. The anti-LGBT group paid to have two planes fly over the park, with warning banners, to deter unsuspecting families from attending the park during Gay Days.
In January 2012, when Starbucks released a memorandum voicing support of gay marriage, NOM launched DumpStarbucks.com to urge people to boycott the coffee chain.
As part of the General Mills family of products, which has been boycotted by NOM for opposing the Minnesota Marriage Amendment, there are attempts to dethrone Wheaties as the "Breakfast of Champions."
In 2004, Procter and Gamble angered conservatives by opposing an anti-gay rights statute that would exempt gays and lesbians from special civil rights protection in its hometown of Cincinnati.  In response, the American Family Association issued a boycott of some of P&G's most popular products, including Tide Detergent, and gathered petition signatures from almost 365,000 families urging Procter & Gamble to change its policy.
In 2005, Microsoft came under fire from anti-LGBT activists, including evangelical preacher Ken Hutcherson, for its support of a bill in that would outlaw discrimination against homosexuals at work in the state of Washington. In response, Microsoft withdrew its support of the bill, prompting outrage from gay and liberal activists and criticism from its staff and other big businesses. In response, Bill Gates backtracked again and admitted that he was surprised by the vehemence of the reaction. When the bill was defeated by a single vote, Microsoft's liberal critics blamed its withdrawal of support for the loss.
A May 2012 post on the American Family Association web site proclaims, "AFA is promoting a boycott of Home Depot until it agrees to remain neutral in the homosexual culture war. The total number of people who have signed the Home Depot boycott pledge is 719,037." The pledge condemns Home Depot for giving "financial and corporate support to open displays of homosexual activism," because this helps expose "small children to lascivious displays of sexual conduct by homosexuals and cross-dressers." In response to the pledge, which was delivered at Home Depot's annual shareholder meeting, Chairman Blake responded, "We are, and will remain, committed to a culture that fosters an inclusive environment for our associates, our customers and communities in which we exist."
Diapers are essential to fulfilling the straight family-making dream, which make them an odd target of a 'pro-family' boycott. However, in 2004, Proctor and Gamble angered conservatives by opposing an anti-gay rights statute that would exempt gays and lesbians from special civil rights protection in its hometown of Cincinnati.  In response, the American Family Association issued a boycott of some of P&G's most popular products, including Pampers Diapers, and gathered petition signatures from almost 365,000 families, urging Procter & Gamble to change its policy.
After it was discovered that PepsiCo gave a combined $1,000,000 to the Human Rights Campaign and PFLAG (Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays) to promote the so-called "homosexual lifestyle" in the workplace, the American Family Accociation posted a "Boycott Pepsi Pledge," urging conservatives to stay away from Pepsi drinks, Frito Lay chips, Quaker Oats, and Gatorade.
In June of 2009, Safeway honored Pride by putting large gay/lesbian Pride posters in its stores across America. In response to this celebration of the "gay lifestyle," the American Family Association urged conservatives to contact their local Safeway, and ask it to "stop promoting homosexuality," and "let Safeway know if they continue, you will consider grocery shopping with their competitors."
In 2004, Procter and Gamble angered conservatives by opposing an anti-gay rights statute that would exempt gays and lesbians from special civil rights protection in its hometown of Cincinnati.  In response, the American Family Association issued a boycott of some of P&G's most popular products, including Crest Toothpaste, and gathered petition signatures from almost 365,000 families, urging Procter & Gamble to change its policy.
In 2011, when Old Navy planned to sell shirts to benefit the anti-suicide, anti-bullying It Gets Better project, the American Family Association urged members to "drop by your Old Navy store in your community and tell them you're not going to shop at Old Navy until they get their minds right."
In 2011, when The Girl Scouts decided to allow a transgender youth to participate, The American Family Association urged members to contact Girl Scout leadership, "expressing your disappointment in their recent decision to allow boys as troop members," and to "let them know you will not support the Girl Scouts as long as it continues down a path of destructive policies."
In December 2011, a Macy's dressing room attendant prevented a transgender woman from using a female dressing room, because it violated her religious beliefs. After the woman was fired for refusing to abide by Macy's pro-LGBT policies, the American Family Association lamented, "The LGBT agenda has become the theater of the absurd" and urged members to contact the Macy's headquarters to "express... outrage at this injustice to female employees and customers."
In May 2012, Target announced that 100% of the purchase price of any of its Pride merchandise would be donated to the pro-LGBT Family Equality Council. The American Family Association lamented that "Target is joining President Obama in ramming same-sex marriage down the throats of the American people" and urged members to contact Target Chairman Gregg Steinhafel, to "let him know that a majority of Americans oppose same-sex marriage and are able to use their pocketbooks to voice their opposition to companies that support it."  It should be noted that Target has also come under fire from gay advocates. In 2011, Lady Gaga nixed a deal with Target for an exclusive special edition of her "Born This Way" album after it was revealed that the brand had donated $150,000 to MN Forward, a group that was backing Tom Emmer's gubernatorial bid in Minnesota. Emmer was known for being especially conservative and not supporting equal rights for LGBT citizens.
Aside from One Million Mom's infamous boycott of the department store for choosing Ellen DeGeneres as its spokesperson, J.C. Penney also came under fire in June 2012 when its catalog featured two men on the floor playing and hugging their two children at home indicating, according to the American Family Association, that the company made a "departure from its moorings to God's Word and Mr. Penney's leadership by taking sides in the cultural war in celebration of homosexuality." The AFA urged members to "call or visit your local J. C. Penney store manager to politely inform them that you will not be shopping at their store this Father's Day," and added, "If you have a store credit card or hold stock with the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP), you might consider closing your account and divesting until they become neutral in the culture war."
Pillsbury is part of the General Mills family of products, which has been boycotted by NOM for opposing the Minnesota Marriage Amendment.
In 2006, Walgreen's was a Platinum-Level sponsor of the Chicago "Gay Games." According to Tom Kovach of RenewAmerica.com, "by its very definition, the 'Gay' Games will invite people from all over the world to come to Chicago this summer and have homo-sex," and Walgreen's support contradicted it "squeaky-clean, family-friendly corporate image." Kovach wasn't alone in his condemnation -- the Illinois Family Institute voiced opposition and considered urging members to boycott the Pharmacy chain.
In 2005, the American Family Association launched a boycott campaign against Ford for being "the company which has done the most to affirm and promote the homosexual lifestyle." The group criticized Ford for donating money to gay-rights organizations (Ford offered to give up to $1,000 to the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation for every Jaguar and Land Rover it sells to a member of GLAAD) and complained that Ford had sponsored Pride celebrations, advertised in gay-oriented publications and was "redefining the definition of the family to include homosexual marriage."
When Gap launched an ad campaign featuring two men pressed together under a shared t-shirt, anti-LGBT group One Million Moms, which is part of the American Family Association, launched a boycott, stating, "GAP Inc. Brands, including Old Navy, Banana Republic, Piperlime, and Athleta, does not deserve, nor will it get, money from conservative families across the country. Supporting GAP is not an option until they decide to remain neutral in the culture war. GAP needs to seriously consider how their immoral advertising affect the youth of our nation."
The frozen vegetable brand is part of the General Mills family of products, which, in June 2012, was boycotted by NOM for opposing the Minnesota Marriage Amendment.
 Share
 Tweet
Conversations
Options
Gay Voices
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Part of HuffPost Multicultural
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

