Sports
Back
Video
Back
Marketplace
Back
Back
Brandon Larrabee, The News Service of Florida
4:07 AM, Apr 3, 2015
1 hour ago
Previous
Next
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. - The Florida Senate on Thursday overwhelmingly approved a bill that would rein in the state's education accountability system, but not before a showing of Republican outrage and promises that the Legislature's job of testing reform isn't done.
Senators voted 32-4 to approve their version of a public-school testing bill (HB 7069), which now returns to the House. It's not clear whether a series of changes approved Wednesday and Thursday will bridge differences between the two chambers.
"I don't know what the House will do," conceded Sen. John Legg, the Lutz Republican sponsoring the bill.
The Senate proposal would put on hold the use of student test data for school grades, teacher evaluations and student promotion to fourth grade until the new Florida Standards Assessments can be independently validated. The testing platform used for the assessments has come under heavy criticism from lawmakers and the public after a rollout last month that featured log-in problems and a cyber attack.
The Senate would also scrap a law requiring school districts to come up with end-of-course tests in classes where the state doesn't administer such exams; cap at 5 percent the share of students' time that can be spent on testing; and reduce from 50 percent to a third the portion of a teacher's evaluation tied to student performance.
But the proposal does not include language that would have allowed students who do well on the SAT, ACT or tests in high-level classes like Advanced Placement courses to skip the corresponding statewide standardized tests. Sen. Tom Lee, R-Brandon, withdrew that amendment after a blistering speech aimed at education accountability advocates like the Foundation for Florida's Future, founded by former Gov. Jeb Bush.
"I'm done with the testing program in the state of Florida," said Lee, a former Senate president and chairman of the budget-writing Appropriations Committee. "I'm done with the accountability system. Whoever those people are out there from whatever foundation they may be from, whatever testing groups they may be supporting: I'm over you. You've lost my confidence. And the reason you've lost my confidence is because I've got emails from you last night that said that you're so married to this system that you don't have a shred of common sense left."
Lee was far from the only Republican taking shots at the testing system, something that the GOP has staunchly supported since Bush became governor in 1999. It is not clear whether the debate Thursday marked a sea change on accountability, but the level of anger among Republicans was notable.
"I think we've lost our way and we need to find it again," said Sen. Don Gaetz of Niceville, another former Senate president who has backed education reform.
Gaetz, who chairs the Senate Education Appropriations Subcommittee, vowed to spend his final year in the Senate on a mission "to bring some order out of chaos."
Sen. Alan Hays, a conservative Republican from Umatilla, said lawmakers had the best intentions but went too far.
"It is sad that today, many of our teachers and even administrators are simply waiting to earn their retirement checks because our well-intentioned but misguided policies have taken the joy out of teaching," Hays said.
Other Republicans were more conciliatory.
"Obviously, the testing has gotten out of control. ... I want to have a non-subjective measure, so we can know exactly how our kids are doing," Sen. Kelli Stargel, R-Lakeland.
Supporters of the accountability system noted that Florida has seen its education ranking among the states improve markedly since Bush started pushing his reform agenda.
"In the anger that some justifiably have with respect to the implementation, we cannot abandon the successes that we have obtained," said Sen. David Simmons, R-Altamonte Springs.
For its part, the foundation has supported the push to get a handle on the testing system. Executive director Patricia Levesque praised the Senate for passing the measure.
 

