Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I've written about health care for more than two decades, starting from my native Iowa where I covered the presidential campaign bus rides of Bill and Hillary Clinton through the Hawkeye state talking health reform and the economy. I have covered the rise, fall and rise again of health reform, chronicling national trends as well as the influence of  Barack and Michelle Obama from Chicago's South Side on changes to the U.S. health system from my base in Chicago. I am the author of the new Forbes signature series book, "Inside Obamacare: The Fix For America's Ailing Health Care System." I was health care business reporter at the Chicago Tribune (1998-2011) and previously wrote for Modern Healthcare magazine when first arriving in Chicago in 1993. Prior to that, I wrote for several Iowa newspapers including the Des Moines Register. These days, I contribute stories to the New York Times, Chicago Medicine magazine and teach in the University of Iowa School of Journalism MA in Strategic Communication program. You can see me nationally on Fox News Channel's "Forbes on Fox" show. In Chicago, you can hear my health segments and business analysis on WBBM newsradio 780 and 105.9 FM. I am passionate about health literacy when it comes to explaining the complexities of health care. A better understood health system may save someone some money or their life.
A new analysis by the Urban Institute said “individual responsibility” requirements akin to the controversial individual mandate included in the Affordable Care Act requiring individuals to buy coverage or face a tax penalty also exist in other health reform proposals and existing health insurance programs.
Some, like the Medicare Part D drug coverage for seniors and Medicare Part B’s physician services for the elderly, have been in place for years. Another, a new Republican proposal to replace the ACA, also has its penalties.
“Specifically, if individuals fail to maintain continuous coverage, they can be medically underwritten or effectively denied insurance in the nongroup market,” the Urban Institute’s authors wrote of the Hatch-Burr-Upton legislation. “Medicare Parts B and D also have provisions that penalize individuals for failing to promptly enroll in coverage for the same reason, yet this approach to an individual mandate has not been controversial.”
All of the proposals share the common thread that health insurance, particularly coverage that involves the private insurance market, need an individual responsibility component to ensure healthy people are in the insurance risk pool. Without healthy people buying coverage and paying premiums, claims submitted largely by sick policyholders would lead to soaring health care costs.
The individual responsibility provision has long been the stance of health care interests like the American Medical Association and the health insurance lobby, America’s Health Insurance Plans, which represents Aetna Aetna (AET), Cigna Cigna (CI), Humana Humana (HUM), UnitedHealth Group UnitedHealth Group (UNH) and most Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans.
WASHINGTON, DC – MARCH 25: U.S. President Barack Obama speaks during an event marking the 5th anniversay of the Affordable Care Act March 25, 2015 at the South Court Auditorium of Eisenhower Executive Office Building in Washington, DC. President Obama spoke on the benefits of the legislation. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Page 1 / 2
Enter Your Comment
Share

