By Associated Press April 9 at 5:04 AM
HYATTSVILLE, Md. — Former Prince George’s County State’s Attorney Glenn Ivey says he’s raised nearly $117,000 in 20 days for his run for Congress.
Ivey’s campaign made the announcement Thursday. He is running for the seat of Rep. Donna Edwards. Edwards is running for retiring Democratic U.S. Sen. Barbara Mikulski’s seat.
Ivey says the amount raised “shattered” his campaign’s fundraising goals.
Former Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown also is running for the congressional seat, which represents parts of Prince George’s and Anne Arundel counties.
Former Prince George’s County Council chairwoman Ingrid Turner also is running. So is Del. Joseline Pena-Melnyk, of Prince George’s.
They are all running in a Democratic primary field that could have additional candidates before next April’s primary.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

