Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Business Insider: Business community steadied Indiana in RFRA storm
Lawmakers and business interests must do what’s best for all corners of Indiana.
Post to Facebook
Business Insider: Business community steadied Indiana in RFRA storm Lawmakers and business interests must do what’s best for all corners of Indiana. Check out this story on IndyStar.com: http://indy.st/1FJJSXv
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
John Ketzenberger 6:01 a.m. EDT April 11, 2015
John Ketzenberger
Jim Morris was the guy I kept thinking of as the Religious Freedom Restoration Act maelstrom broke over Indiana.
Many others came to mind while Indiana’s well-earned reputation as a state that works hung precariously in the balance, but Morris was proxy for all Hoosiers when I considered how 40 years of hard work seemed lost to a stroke of the pen. Morris and many others have worked tirelessly to remake Indianapolis and Indiana into a good place to live, work and raise a family. His steady, low-key way is worth emulation.
So imagine my relief when I saw Morris standing next to Senate President Pro Tem  David Long as the news  conference to announce the negotiated solution contained in Senate Bill 50 began. By April 2, I was skeptical that anything short of repealing Senate Enrolled Act 101 would stanch the self-inflicted wound Hoosiers had suffered.
Morris’ calm expression of our values, the reiteration to a howling world that we’re at heart live-and-let-live people, led a most welcome chorus of business people singing from a page of tolerance and acceptance.
As the remarkable news  conference wrapped up, it became clear in fixing the RFRA that lawmakers have set a course toward anti-discrimination protection for sexual orientation and gender identity. Many remain skeptical that this ironic outcome is possible, but watch a replay of the news  conference and you’ll hear  Long mention in his opening remarks and in response to questions that he thinks it will be part of next year’s legislative agenda.
Some bemoan the fact business and economic self-interest are the beacons that led us back into the light of reason. We can wish that our better instincts would lead us there instead. To me, it’s reassuring to know Indiana’s business community is the steady keel under our ship of state.
Cooperation and collaboration are fragile notions easily discarded when the votes are handy and considered automatic. That’s true between Republicans and Democrats, and it’s true between the business and political realms.
In this atmosphere, a winner-take-all mentality can take hold. Lawmakers and all of the interests surrounding the General Assembly can ignore those with no political leverage, and it’s easy to upset the balance that has marked Indiana’s rise in prominence.
Now is a good time to think about how we do business in Indiana. Many of those who stood behind Morris contributed money to the campaigns of those who put ideology before common decency. Controlling the levers of power carries great responsibility; doing it with supermajorities requires self-discipline, and the RFRA debacle is what happens when it wanes.
Before the storm subsided, two Tippecanoe County senators told a columnist for the Lafayette Journal and Courier newspaper they were caught off-guard by the response to RFRA. One of them said he’d like a do-over. Well, now he’s got it; what will the General Assembly and the state’s business community do with it?
Here’s what I hope for:
•Passage of House Bill 1403, the Indiana Economic Development Corp.’s effort to recognize the state’s regional economies and help build them through state investment in infrastructure.
•Passage of House Bill 1485, a restructuring of local option income taxes in a way that gives local governments greater flexibility to determine their needs and a way to pay for them.
•A renewed commitment to finding the right mix for funding public schools in House Bill 1001, the state’s two-year budget. Lawmakers have wrought dramatic change to the state’s education system over the past  four or five budget cycles. It would be nice to see them take steps toward a comprehensive study of how these changes affect education throughout the state from fiscal and social points of view. After all, primary and secondary education in Indiana accounts for more than half of every dollar the state spends, more than $7.5 billion a year.
•Serious discussions about adequately funding infrastructure projects, whether it’s local roads, regional airports and railroads or mass transit. Indiana forfeits its natural geographic advantages if it’s unable to provide the thoroughfares for moving goods.
These are issues that will shape Indiana’s future. They will determine the interaction between our rural communities and urban areas and whether they’ll thrive together. It’s not a zero-sum game, and it’s incumbent on lawmakers and business interests to do what’s best for all corners of Indiana.
When he was governor, Mitch Daniels was famous for shelving social issues and prompting lawmakers and business interests to focus on improving Indiana’s economy. Given the RFRA debacle, we’ve seen the wisdom in that position.
The politics of division is a destructive means to dubious ends. As Republicans and Democrats head into next year’s elections for control of the General Assembly and the governor’s office, I hope they’ll discern unity from their exhaustive polling and not further division. And I hope the business community pays attention to the positions lawmakers express when it comes time to make campaign contributions.
Indiana’s business is everyone’s business. Let’s stick to it.
John Ketzenberger is president of the Indiana Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonpartisan and nonprofit organization to research state budget and tax issues. Email him at jketzenberger@indianafiscal.org . Follow him on Twitter: @JohnKetz.
1 CONNECT 2 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: http://indy.st/1FJJSXv
More Stories
April 10, 2015, 9:09 p.m.

