By: Associated Press
/ Article
Governor Rick Snyder and legislators are still working on budgets for K-12 schools and public health programs.
Michigan lawmakers are accelerating efforts to finish state government's next budget.
Conference committees on Tuesday approved spending bills for universities, community colleges, transportation and other budgets. In a flurry of activity, panels moved 14 of 17 bills to the Legislature for approval next week.
The budget includes $260 million more for roads. Lawmakers say it's a short-term bump while they search for a way to permanently dedicate at least $1.2 billion a year more toward improving deteriorating infrastructure.
Michigan's 15 public universities will get funding increases ranging from 0.4 percent at Wayne State to 3.1 percent at Lake Superior State, as long as they increase tuition no more than 3.2 percent.
Gov. Rick Snyder and legislators are still working on budgets for K-12 schools and public health programs.
Lawmakers are allocating most of $25 million in funding for Michigan's movie incentives program to resolve debt that the state owes for a film studio in Pontiac.
Legislation approved Tuesday by a conference committee dedicates $19 million to the State of Michigan Retirement Systems in the next fiscal year. That leaves $6 million to lure film and TV productions to Michigan.
Under a 2010 deal, Michigan's pension funds are on the hook because Michigan Motion Picture Studios failed to make payments to bondholders.
Republican Sen. Jim Stamas of Midland says it appears legislators are on a path toward ending movie incentives.
The program initially had $50 million this budget year.
In 2012, the studio's hard times were blamed on Michigan severely slashing some of the country's most generous movie-making incentives.
BWL Commissioners Unanimously Pass Budget
WILX.com is happy to provide a forum for commenting and discussion. Please respect and abide by the house rules:
Keep it clean, keep it civil, keep it truthful, stay on topic, be responsible, share your knowledge, and please suggest removal of comments that violate these standards.  Comments may take up to 24 hours or longer to appear on the site.
There are currently no active polls at this time.
Click here to view other polls on our site and past poll results.
WILX 500 American Road Lansing, MI 48911 517-393-0110
Copyright © 2002-2015 - Designed by Gray Digital Media - Powered by Clickability   305105621 - wilx.com/a?a=305105621
Website Policy
Public File Liaison:

