Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Ban on teenagers riding in back of pickups fails in Alabama House
The Alabama House failed to pass a stripped down version of Rep. Kerry Rich's bill to prevent teenagers from riding in the bed of a pickup truck on a state or federal highway.
The legislation brought before the House today would have only affected teenagers ages 16-18 because younger teens are already required to be restrained by a seat belt or child safety seat.
Rich, R-Albertville, brought the bill last year  in response to a 2013 Guntersville crash  that killed four and injured five others when a pickup carrying 10 teenagers collided with another vehicle and flipped.  One of the teenagers was paralyzed  from the chest down.
The group of teens was traveling on U.S. 431 to go swimming at Lake Guntersville.
Rich attempted to get the bill passed this year by watering it down and only prohibiting teenagers from riding in the back on state and federal highways instead of also including arterial or other high capacity roadways. It wouldn't have applied to farming, sanctioned parades and hayrides or emergency situations.
Under this year's bill, in the first year of implementation only warnings would be issued. The next year a fine up to $50 could be issued.
Speaking against the bill, Rep. Terri Collins, R-Decatur, asked lawmakers on the House floor to raise their hands if they have ridden in the back of a pickup.  Every hand went in the air.
"I believe it is up to the parents to make that decision," she said, if teenagers should ride in the back of trucks. "I believe that is my decision to make. Legislating that is not something I want to support."
Collins said she doesn't know if she would support requiring motorists to wear seatbelts, either, if that was before the House today.
Rich said there's evidence that wearing seat belts saves lives; and riding in the back of pickups isn't always safe.
"It makes perfect sense to me that children shouldn't be able to ride in the bed of a pickup on a heavily trafficked road," he said.
Under current Alabama law, anyone riding in the front seats of a vehicle is required to wear a seat belt. 
Photo          of the Day
© 2015 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Alabama Media Group
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

