Jeb Bush touts voucher-like system for veterans' care during Colorado Springs visit
×
Note: Scroll to the bottom of the story for tweets from Gazette reporter Tom Roeder ( @xroederx  ), who covered Jeb Bush's visit to Colorado Springs.
+ caption
Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush met with a group of Veterans made up primarily of the members of the  Military Affairs Council Tuesday, April 7, 2015 in Colorado Springs, Colo. Photo by Mark Reis, The Gazette
Related Information
Related Articles (5)
Like his father and brother before him, Jeb Bush explored his presidential run in Colorado Springs Tuesday while burnishing his defense credentials and tightening ties to faith groups.
Bush, the former Florida governor who is a likely contender for the Republican nomination in 2016, started his day talking defense cash and veterans over pancakes. His breakfast mates included business leaders and retired brass from the Pikes Peak region, including five retired generals.
Bush was coy about his presidential ambitions, but had a half-dozen campaign workers with him.
“Should I get into the race, I will explain my views for a strong national defense,” said Bush, son of President George H.W. Bush and brother of President George W. Bush.
As other GOP hopefuls including Rand Paul enter the fray, Bush is barnstorming the country to build his campaign war chest and list of allies.
His itinerary Tuesday included Colorado Springs, with a stop at the International House of Pancakes on North Academy, Denver and Chicago.
The Pikes Peak region, with among the deepest pool of Republican voters in the Rockies, is a mandatory stop for GOP presidential candidates. And the key to the Pikes Peak region economy is defense, which makes up about 50 cents of every payroll dollar here.
Leaving his pancakes untouched, Bush waded into defense issues, saying as Florida’s governor he helped broker deals to give bases breathing space and made the state military-friendly to gain troops when others lost during the 2005 base-closure round.
“You have to build consensus so people don’t see this as a threat,” he said of working to ease tensions between the military and surrounding communities.
It’s early in the race, but Bush clearly thinks veteran’s issues will be an easy sell to the Republican faithful.
Seizing on recent news that Colorado Springs veterans are nearly four times more likely to wait a month or more for VA care, Bush said it’s time to give the agency some private competition.
Bush said veterans need a voucher-like system that would allow them to get government-financed care from the physician of their choice. That would be a drastic expansion of a recently introduced VA program that allows some veterans limited access to private medical care.
“The system itself won’t change unless you empower veterans,” Bush said.
On other issues, Bush lamented sequestration cuts that have culled up to $50 billion per year from defense spending and called for a more vigorous foreign policy.
“Our enemies don’t fear us and they are acting accordingly,” he said.
Bush did address a gaffe earlier this week, when it was revealed that he checked a box saying he had Hispanic heritage on a voter registration form.
“It was just a mistake,” Bush said.
The rancor of the GOP primary was on display too, as a man claiming to be a Republican shouted “Shame on you Bush,” as the politician spoke to reporters.
Bush paused and smiled. He had addressed loud sounds earlier when talking about military aircraft in Florida.
 
 
Your browser does not support iframes.
Jeb Bush called for "voucher" program to gve veterans private care, citing long wait times in Colorado Springs VA
Jeb Bush also wants more money spent on Defense. He said "our enemies don't fear us, so they act accordingly."
Jeb Bush looked presidential, rolling in a chromed-out black Suburban. He told a lot of storied about his work as Fla. gov.
Jeb Bush shared pancakes with small group that included five retired generals -- two four-stars.
The Pikes Peak region, with the deepest pool of Republican voters in the Rockies, is a mandatory stop for GOP presidential candidates.
Newsletters

