Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
A Supreme Court ruling allowing same-sex marriage in Ohio must not lead to a legislative backlash in Columbus: Thomas Suddes
gaymarriage.jpg
Nicole Yorksmith, left, and her wife, Pam Yorksmith, with their children, Grayden, 3, and Orion, eight months. The Yorksmiths, of Cincinnati, are plaintiffs in the Ohio gay-marriage case before the Supreme Court. "The children are what it's about," said Pam. "This fight is for the kids." (Lynn Ischay, The Plain Dealer, File)
Despite the antics of Indiana's slow-freight governor , Ohioans, whether pro or anti about same-sex marriage, need to keep a couple things in mind.
It's not a slam-dunk that the U.S. Supreme Court, after hearing legal arguments this month , will end Ohio's ban on same-sex marriage. But as humorist Finley Peter Dunne said in 1901, "No matter whether the constitution follows the flag or not, the Supreme Court follows the election returns." Last week's Indianapolis debate, as a measure of political reality, amounted to an election. And that, loud and clear, sent the Supreme Court's justices a message.
Part One of that message: The American Establishment, whose supreme guardian is the Supreme Court, supports, or at least doesn't oppose, same-sex marriage. Part Two: The risk of losing conventions, tournaments or trade shows, because of anti-gay discrimination by a state, scares the stuffing out of mayors striving to promote their towns. And it should.
Meanwhile, though, a couple things got lost. They may or may not have any legal bearing. But they will matter politically. For example, since last fall, Indiana has allowed same-sex marriage, courtesy of a unanimous ruling by the Chicago-based 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals . The Supreme Court refused to review that decision, so the circuit judges' decision is the law of Indiana: Gay marriage is permitted, and gay couples marry, in Indiana. There, that fight is over.
But in Ohio, thanks to a 2-1 decision written by Judge Jeffrey S. Sutton, Cincinnati's 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals refused to spike Ohio's same-sex marriage ban . That is, Ohio's status quo isn't Indiana's.
This, too, got lost: Ohio voters banned same-sex marriage in 2004. That ban was added to the state constitution with the "yes" votes of 62 percent of those Ohioans voting; it carried 87 of Ohio's 88 counties. (Lone exception: Athens.)
In contrast, Indiana's same-sex marriage ban was a state law passed by the Indiana General Assembly. Indiana voters hadn't added a same-sex ban to Indiana's constitution, largely, it appears, because Indiana's procedure for state constitutional amendments is far more complicated than Ohio's.
To the Supreme Court, it may or may not matter -- legally -- that Ohio banned same-sex marriage via a vote of the people, not just a vote of the legislature. (Before voters ratified the 2004 amendment, the General Assembly passed, and GOP Gov. Bob Taft signed, a state law banning same-sex marriage.)
But it may matter big time -- politically -- if the Supreme Court kills Ohio's same-sex marriage ban. After all, 3,329,335 Ohioans specifically voted to forbid same-sex marriage. That in no way lessens the responsibility of Ohio officials, state and local, to clear the way for same-sex marriages -- if the U.S. Supreme Court orders that. But the political reality of 3.3 million "no" votes -- albeit, cast almost 11 years ago -- may, as a practical matter, make it tougher.
It's been claimed that Ohio's Republican rulers, from Gov. John Kasich on down, would privately be relieved to have the Supreme Court take the blame (or get the credit) if same-sex couples may marry in Ohio. But the justices can't manage the details at Ohio marriage license offices. Nor can they tamp down General Assembly demagogues who may try to let businesses, under the guise of religious freedom, discriminate against same-sex couples.
In that respect, a Supreme Court decision allowing same-sex marriage in Ohio wouldn't let anyone in Columbus off the hook, politically or managerially. It would do just the opposite. That's why Ohio officials should be "what if" prepared. Because the foes of same-sex marriage will be. 
Thomas Suddes, a member of the editorial board, writes from Athens.
To reach Thomas Suddes: tsuddes@gmail.com, 216-999-4689
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy
cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

