Mayor Gray Selects Brown As First District Councilman - LEX18.com | Continuous News and StormTracker Weather
Posted:
Updated:
Mayor Gray appointed James Brown as First District Councilman
  Mayor Jim Gray today named James Brown, president of the Radcliffe-Marlboro Neighborhood Association, the new Councilmember for the 1st District.
“James is passionate about neighborhood, family, young people, schools and public service,” Gray said. “He will be a great addition to the Council.”
“I am excited and honored by Mayor Gray's appointment to serve our city,” Brown said. “I'm committed to engaging community partners and working with fellow Councilmembers to address the needs of the 1st District.”
Brown took the oath of office, administered by Fayette Circuit Judge Pamela Goodwine, before a diverse crowd of neighborhood leaders, ministers, housing advocates, public servants, family members and friends. Brown replaces Chris Ford, who stepped down from the Council last month to become Gray's Commissioner of Social Services.
The diverse 1st District includes areas of Lexington's historic downtown, African American neighborhoods in the East End and the West End, plus a broad section of north Lexington outside of downtown.
“I believe my experience in grassroots advocacy and the ability to build relationships will be an asset in becoming an effective Councilmember,” Brown said. 
Brown serves as a parent representative on the Bryan Station High School Site-Based Council, is actively involved in the 16th District PTA and through it serves as Chair of the Urban Family Engagement Network. He helped initiate a neighborhood watch program, managed multiple neighborhood grant projects and serves as member of the public school rezoning committee.
Brown said he will run for the seat in the fall election.
Brown, a Realtor, is a Lexington native. He and his wife, Charmayne, have three children.
WEATHER
Monday, April 6 2015 12:15 AM EDT2015-04-06 04:15:44 GMT
A man has been charged with killing his wife Sunday morning in Powell County.According to State Police, troopers were called out around 6 a.m. to a shooting on Echo Hollow Road in Clay City.When investigators arrived at the home, they said they found Rosena Hood, 42, had been shot. The victim was taken to a hospital in Mount Sterling where she was pronounced dead.The victim's husband, James Hood, 48, has been charged with second-degree manslaughter.Details of the shooting have not been releas...
A man has been charged with killing his wife Sunday morning in Powell County.According to State Police, troopers were called out around 6 a.m. to a shooting on Echo Hollow Road in Clay City.When investigators arrived at the home, they said they found Rosena Hood, 42, had been shot. The victim was taken to a hospital in Mount Sterling where she was pronounced dead.The victim's husband, James Hood, 48, has been charged with second-degree manslaughter.Details of the shooting have not been releas...
Sunday, April 5 2015 2:06 PM EDT2015-04-05 18:06:33 GMT
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) - Kentucky guard Andrew Harrison seemed to mumble an obscenity and a racial slur as a question about Wisconsin's Frank Kaminsky was being asked during a postgame news conference at the Final Four.Harrison and the Wildcats were upset 71-64 by the Badgers on Saturday night.After the game, Harrison was sitting at the interview table with his brother, Aaron, directly to his left and forward Willie Cauley-Stein directly to his right.A reporter directed a question about Kaminsky t...
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) - Kentucky guard Andrew Harrison seemed to mumble an obscenity and a racial slur as a question about Wisconsin's Frank Kaminsky was being asked during a postgame news conference at the Final Four.Harrison and the Wildcats were upset 71-64 by the Badgers on Saturday night.After the game, Harrison was sitting at the interview table with his brother, Aaron, directly to his left and forward Willie Cauley-Stein directly to his right.A reporter directed a question about Kaminsky t...
Monday, April 6 2015 5:10 AM EDT2015-04-06 09:10:04 GMT
Officials in Franklin County declared a state of emergency due to flooding over the weekend. The Kentucky River crested at 36 feet, leaving many Franklin County roads under water.
Officials in Franklin County declared a state of emergency due to flooding over the weekend. The Kentucky River crested at 36 feet, leaving many Franklin County roads under water.
Monday, April 6 2015 5:32 AM EDT2015-04-06 09:32:42 GMT
   

