posted: April 05
posted: March 30
Updated:                                 March 30
Iowa pastors play influential role in 2016 presidential race
FILE In this Nov. 5, 2013 file photo, Cary Gordon, right, a well-known evangelical Christian pastor with a church in Sioux City that can draw over 600 people on Sundays, gets voting instructions at a polling place in Sioux City, Iowa. Gordon isn’t a political operative, a top dollar donor or an elected official, but Jeb Bush’s people have already reached out to him, as the 2016 Republican presidential campaign heats up in Iowa. (Dawn J. Sagert, Sioux City Journal)
Charlie Riedel
Iowa pastors play influential role in 2016 presidential race
FILE - In this Jan, 1, 2012 file photo, former Republican Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann and her husband Marcus are blessed by Pastor Bill Tvedt, right, and his wife Julie, left, during a campaign stop at Jubilee Family Church in Oskaloosa, Iowa. Bachmann aggressively courted Christian conservatives during her presidential campaign and won the Straw Poll in 2011, the pre-caucus summer event that draws only a small number of potential caucus voters, but is viewed as an early test of campaign organization. (AP Photo/Charlie Riedel, File)
Charlie Neibergall
Iowa pastors play influential role in 2016 presidential race
FILE - In this July 19, 2014 file photo, then-Texas Gov. Rick Perry, left, talks with Story City pastor Jamie Johnson, who is now working for Perry, during a meeting with local party activists in Algona, Iowa. Iowa pastors have been politically active for many years and going into 2016, a host of potential candidates are wooing pastors. (AP Photo/Charlie Neibergall)
Posted: Sunday, April 5, 2015 6:05 am | Updated: 9:00 am, Sun Apr 5, 2015.
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) — Cary Gordon isn't a political operative, a top dollar donor or an elected official. But that hasn't stopped Jeb Bush's team from already reaching out as the 2016 Republican presidential campaign revs up in Iowa.
Gordon is a well-known evangelical Christian pastor with a church in Sioux City that can draw 600 people on Sundays and a voice that echoes far beyond the pulpit. Gordon backed former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum in the 2012 GOP field, sending out text messages, tweets and a video announcement to deliver his message.
In some states, big city ward leaders or union bosses are the go-to guys to deliver votes. When it comes to Iowa's Republican caucuses, evangelical pastors are kingmakers, with sway over an important bloc of participants. Long before the campaign heats up, leading ministers are showered with personal attention from likely candidates, and they can negotiate their policy positions on issues such as gay rights and abortion.
With the power comes perks.
For example, Brad Sherman, pastor at Solid Rock Christian Church in Coralville, was among a group of Iowa pastors invited on a complimentary trip to Poland and London in late 2014 with former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, who is considering a 2016 race.
"Just being in Iowa and being involved opens certain doors," said Sherman, who went on a trip to Israel with Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul.
Both were funded by evangelical leader David Lane, who is working to grow the number of conservative Christian voters in early voting states.
Going into 2016, the power of the Iowa pastors is considered indisputable. Four years ago, pastors united behind Santorum, who eked out a victory in the caucuses and saw his stature rise in the crowded field. Back in 2008, evangelical support was part of Huckabee's winning coalition.
"In our church, the last four cycles we've probably had almost 100 percent of our people vote," said Bill Tvedt, pastor at Jubilee Family Church in Oskaloosa, who has not endorsed a candidate. "In our local county, we control the Republican party pretty much — our church and another church."
Lots of the potential 2016 GOP candidates are wooing pastors.
Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry and Paul have appeared before groups of religious conservatives. Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker talks frequently about being a pastor's son. Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, whose father is a pastor, and Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal recently addressed a gathering of pastors in Des Moines.
"I believe our country is in crisis and I think it's incumbent on people of faith to stand up and defend our values," said Cruz, who was joined by his father, Rafael, at the event.
Iowa pastors have been politically active for years, but became more involved after the Iowa Supreme Court's 2009 decision allowing gay marriage, which incensed many. Their turnout machines are formidable, with more than half of the 2012 caucus participants identifying as evangelical or born-again Christian, according to exit polls.
"They provide a voice in the pulpit," said Jamie Johnson, a pastor from Story City who is working for Perry.
Said Gordon, executive pastor at Cornerstone World Outreach, "I teach our people that civic responsibility is a part of our Christian heritage."
Some pastors arrange buses for people to attend the Iowa Straw Poll, the summer event viewed as an early test of campaign organizations.
So far this year, a chief concern for some pastors is that there may be too many good options.
"I'm concerned that the truly conservative base will get split up so many ways and we'll end up with a moderate," said Sherman.
Still, some Iowa pastors think faith leaders should not be working to help candidates.
___
Follow Catherine Lucey on Twitter at: http://twitter.com/catherine_lucey
Posted in Elections , Politics on Sunday, April 5, 2015 6:05 am. Updated: 9:00 am.
Rules of Conduct
1 Comments may be printed in El Paso Inc. or affiliated publications' print editions.
2 Comments may be edited for space and clarity.
Welcome to the discussion.
Screen Name or Email
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
El Paso Inc. Top Headlines
Our top stories from each issue, delivered directly to your email inbox.
Sign Up for El Paso Inc. Email Newsletter
_
Video
facebook
google
yahoo
aol

