Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Roundup: McDonald reportedly drunk during assault
California Highway Patrol officials released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of Ray McDonald.
Post to Facebook
Roundup: McDonald reportedly drunk during assault California Highway Patrol officials released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of Ray McDonald. Check out this story on detroitnews.com: http://detne.ws/1HvkWBs
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Roundup: McDonald reportedly drunk during assault
Associated Press 11:21 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
Ndamukong Suh gets in a clinch with fellow defensive tackle Deandre Coleman during a drill at the Dolphins OTAs.
(Photo: Wilfredo Lee / Associated Press)
CONNECT 2 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
San Francisco — California Highway Patrol officials released audio from the 911 call that led to the arrest of former 49ers and Bears defensive end Ray McDonald.
KRON-TV reported Tuesday a woman, mother of the alleged victim, says McDonald was drunk when she called authorities before dawn Monday.
McDonald was later arrested at a San Jose home on suspicion of assaulting a woman who was holding the couple's baby. McDonald was released on bail, facing misdemeanor charges of domestic violence and child endangerment
The caller says she wasn't at the home but that her daughter told her to call police, according to the audio.
Later in the day the Bears released McDonald.
The arrest follows a pattern of similar incidents.
McDonald's agent Tom Condon has not returned multiple calls seeking comment.
Suh at Dolphins OTAs
Dolphins attendance is on the rise. Ndamukong Suh showed up for practice Tuesday.
The $114 million defensive tackle, signed from the Lions as a free agent, drew attention for his absence from offseason training sessions in recent weeks, but was on the field with the rest of his new teammates for the Dolphins first organized team activity.
Like the training sessions, attending OTAs is voluntary but strongly encouraged by coaches. Taking part was an easy decision, Suh said.
"It's automatic," he said. "You never miss practice. I don't miss practice."
Suh declined to discuss why he skipped the training sessions.
"Next question," he said.
Suh rarely attended OTAs when he was with the Lions.
More OTA news
All-Pro outside linebacker Justin Houston, who has not signed a non-exclusive franchise tender, was among nine players not present for Chiefs workouts.
Houston, who is seeking a long-term contract, also did not report April 20 for the start of the offseason workout program for the Chiefs.
... Russell Wilson, Jimmy Graham and Cliff Avril were absent from the Seahawks OTAs for personal reasons. Michael Bennett and Bruce Irvin were just absent.
As for running back Marshawn Lynch? Well, no one expected him around anyway.
Avril, a former Lions player, posted on Instagram about the death of his father.
... Jaguars defensive end Chris Clemons skipped the first day of the team's organized team activities. Clemons was the only player missing.
Personnel dept.
The Cowboys signed receiver A.J. Jenkins, a former first-round pick of the 49ers.
Sam greets Montreal
Michael Sam says his only priority is helping the Montreal Alouettes win, not by making history as the first openly gay football player in the Canadian Football League.
Sam signed a two-year deal with the Alouettes last week.
"I'm not trying to really do anything historic here by being with Montreal, I'm just trying to help the team win some games so we can bring the Grey Cup back home," Sam said at a packed news conference.
Sam, 25, came out publicly before last year's NFL draft. He was selected in the seventh round by the Rams to become the first openly gay player chosen by an NFL team. The Rams cut him in training camp.

