NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
Inside
Photo
Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago campaigned at a Salvation Army community center last month. Credit Andrew Nelles for The New York Times
CHICAGO — Voters here were going to the polls on Tuesday to choose between Rahm Emanuel , a former member of Congress and White House chief of staff, who is seeking a second term as mayor of the nation’s third-largest city, and Jesus G. Garcia, a county commissioner known as Chuy.
Election officials were anticipating a higher turnout than six weeks ago, when an unusually low 34 percent of registered voters took part in an election that forced a runoff.
In a city with an overwhelmingly Democratic electorate — a previous mayor, the Democrat Richard M. Daley, was sometimes called mayor for life — the notion of a runoff was unexpected. The city spent the last month in a blur of debates, television ads and candidate appearances at “L” stops and churches.
Photo
Jesus G. Garcia campaigned at Wilson Park in Chicago last month. Credit Andrew Nelles for The New York Times
For Mr. Emanuel, 55, who has raised millions of dollars more than his opponent, the race has been something of an extended apology session for his brusque, uncompromising personality. “I can rub people the wrong way or talk when I should listen,” he said in one ad.
And Mr. Garcia, 58, whose strongest support comes from teachers and other unions, has framed the race as a fight for ordinary, working Chicagoans in the neighborhoods — not just wealthy business executives in the gleaming Loop.
Here are a few things to know as Chicago votes.
Q. How did Chicago wind up with a runoff?
A. While Rahm Emanuel approached the Feb. 24 election with a substantial lead and won 36 of the city’s 50 wards, he captured only 46 percent of the popular vote. That fell short of the requirement to avoid a runoff: winning at least one vote above 50 percent. Mr. Garcia, who came in second in February, won 34 percent of the vote, a surprisingly strong showing given that he entered the race in October and had a relatively low profile in the city. The election Tuesday is the first mayoral runoff since Chicago began holding nonpartisan elections 16 years ago.
Q. What are the biggest issues?
A. Three broad issues have emerged:
1. Money. During Mr. Emanuel’s tenure, Chicago has struggled to finance pensions for city workers and has seen its bond ratings plummet. Mr. Emanuel says there is reason for optimism and that he is willing to make difficult choices to improve the city’s finances. His ideas include opening a casino, which would require state approval, and taking a hard tack in negotiating with labor unions to reduce the long-term cost of employee pensions. Mr. Garcia has called for a sweeping audit of Chicago’s finances and for creating a commission to explore fiscal options, but he has been hammered on the campaign trail for not laying out a specific plan.
2. Schools. In some parts of the city, residents remain deeply resentful of Mr. Emanuel for allowing dozens of public schools to close in 2013 and for tense contract negotiations with the teachers’ union that led to a strike in 2012. Mr. Emanuel, who frequently mentions that students in Chicago Public Schools now spend more time in class, cited declining enrollment and abysmal test results as reasons for the closures. But many of the shuttered classrooms are in black or Hispanic neighborhoods. Mr. Garcia has said it is possible that some of those schools would reopen if he were elected.
3. Neighborhoods. Mr. Garcia portrays himself as the candidate of blue-collar Chicago. He lives in an area coping with gang violence and speaks of his desire to promote development in the city’s vast grid of bungalows and brownstones. He says Mr. Emanuel focuses too much on the city’s booming downtown, sometimes at the expense of residential areas where streets are more likely to have potholes, homicides remain common and racial integration can seem elusive. Mr. Emanuel says he has invested in neighborhoods as well as the business district, noting repairs to an important rail line through the mostly black South Side and pointing out plans to build a Whole Foods store in one of Chicago’s roughest communities.
Q. What will determine who wins?
A. Who wins will largely depend on whose argument has stuck over the last six weeks: Mr. Garcia’s stance for ordinary people? Or Mr. Emanuel’s argument that he is the only one qualified to wrestle with Chicago’s fiscal challenges?
Some crucial voting blocs could play a role. Mr. Emanuel must hope for gains in African-American communities on the city’s South and West Sides, where an ample number of votes in February’s election went to other candidates, but where Mr. Emanuel’s tie to President Obama could still hold sway. Mr. Garcia needs a sizable showing in Latino neighborhoods, which he received in February. He also could need a surge of new or infrequent voters — a turnout some are anticipating — to appear in those wards.
In a city where a patronage machine was once the guarantee for turnout and victory, much has changed. Mr. Emanuel’s campaign, with a significant financial advantage, has stepped up canvassing, posting on Twitter and television advertising in recent days. Mr. Garcia, on the other hand, has harnessed the aid of groups like the city’s teachers’ union and the Service Employees International Union.
Q. Why does the election matter beyond Chicago?
A. There are parallels between the Chicago mayoral race and other fights within the Democratic Party. In his first term, Mr. Emanuel has emerged as a pragmatic, centrist Democrat who has pushed an agenda of education and pension reform while also encouraging major corporate development in the city and accepting large donations from the wealthy. Mr. Garcia has carved out a space even further to the left by saying he would focus on Chicago’s economically depressed neighborhoods on the South and West Sides. He has called Mr. Emanuel a tool of the “rich and powerful.” Mr. Emanuel has been a top aide to President Obama and former President Bill Clinton; Mr. Garcia says he admires Howard Dean and Elizabeth Warren and hopes to follow their example.
Whoever wins could represent the direction of the Democratic Party going forward.
Loading...

