President Obama, accompanied by the Easter Bunny, at Easter Egg Roll festivities at the White House in 2012. (J. Scott Applewhite/AP)
President Obama and the first family worshipped  Easter Sunday  at the 212 year old Alfred Street Baptist Church in Alexandria where the minsiter mixed bible with the social justice issues of today.
Started by slaves in 1803, Alfred Street is the oldest and most promiment African American church in Virginia that began  during the time of President Thomas Jefferson. Today the church has a membership of moe than 7,000.
After stirring selections from the church’s Young Adult Choir, Rev. Howard-John Wesley, preached from the titled “The Resurection Matters,” that included modern day examples of how people are forced to make choirces about many things in life from who their Civil Rights leaders have been to the kind of music they enjoy.
“ Malcolm X and Martin Luther King, Jr….Prince or Michael Jackson; Biggie or Tupac; New Edition with Bobbie Brown or without,” Wesley said. “Even today in our political landscape, a line in the sand is drawn forcing you to make a decision on where you stand.”
“Where do you stand with rights or same sex couples…where do you stand on gun reform, where do you stand with police body cameras? Wesley asked the church. “Where do you stand on affordable health care? Life has a way of making you make a decision. .Where you stand on the resurrection of Jesus Christ: You either believe it or you reject it.
Wesley, 42, who has been at Alford Street for seven years, said  in an interview, “Its was an honor to just worship with the President. It  allows us to  know that he recognizes the work that God is doing in our church.” Wesley has been a leader in the faith community in terms of progressive issues like being in suppot of Civil Rights protections for same sex couples.
Rev.  Delman Coates, Pastor of Mt. Ennon Baptist Church in Clinton and President of the Black Church Center for Justice and Equality said Wesley’s sermon and the President’s visit is significant because it shows that the Black church is not monolythic when it comes to thrny social justice  issues like same sex marriage.
“I think what we are seeing is a shift in communities of faith in which African American faith leaders are coming out in support of progressive causes including LGBT rights because many see a connection between Jesus and Justice.
Coates noted the fact that Saturday marked the 37th anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King assassination in Memphis. “37 years ago Dr. King lost his life and see an African American President come to a historically black church on Easter Sunday is not only spiritually relevant but socially and historically relevant.”
But Wesley, whose sermon was entitled, “The Resurrection Matters,” said the President’s visit wasn’t about politics.  “The biggest thing for me is knowing and believing that the President is a man of faith who just wanted to hear the good news of the Ressurection. He really enjoyed the worship.”
The President has visited several District churches since he has been in the White House, but this was his first visit to a church in Nortern Virginia.  Last year the president attended the Nineteenth Street Baptist Church in the District for Easter and the year before that he attened Sr. John’s Episcopal Church across from the White House.
The first family celebrated the Easter holiday by attending church services in Alexandria, Va. (AP)
Hamil Harris is currently a multi-platform reporter on the Local Desk of The Washington Post.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

