Soglin: poverty, equity, economic growth among top priorities fo - WKOW 27: Madison, WI Breaking News, Weather and Sports
Posted:
Updated:
Madison (WKOW) – Madison Mayor Paul Soglin was re-elected by a wide margin Tuesday night against challenger Scott Resnick.
Speaking to supporters after Resnick conceded the race, Soglin said his top priorities remain addressing issues of poverty and equity in the City of Madison. Both were key themes of his campaign.
“When we look back, in 2019, to the year 2011 we are going to witness one of the most significant transformations, demonstrating that a city can address the challenges of poverty, of disparities, and show that we can make this a community with opportunities and success for everyone,” Soglin said.
Soglin said this year's officer-involved, fatal shooting of teenager Tony Robinson has again brought the issues of poverty and racial disparities to the attention of Madison's residents.
“The tragedy of Tony Robinson's death has galvanized the city of Madison and Dane County to address many of these issues,” Soglin said.
Soglin said the city is working towards providing affordable housing to combat homelessness. He also said he'll work to link up impoverished, Madison teens with summer job opportunities.
Soglin said that's among the ways he'll seek to keep Madison's economy as the state's best.
“We have led this state in the last three and a half years in terms of economic growth, of job creation, and in terms of new construction,” Soglin said. “We are going to continue to lead in every measurement that significantly says something about how we're doing in these areas that are so important.”
Soglin also said the City is planning to honor the Badger men's basketball team, which made a run to the NCAA championship game before losing to Duke University on Monday night.
“We honored the team last year for making the Final Four, and we certainly are going to honor them this year for making the championship game,” Soglin said.
27 News Headlines More>>
A white South Carolina police officer has been charged with murder in the shooting death of a black motorist after a traffic stop. More >>
A white South Carolina police officer has been charged with murder in the shooting death of a black motorist after a traffic stop. More >>
Badgers basketball
The governors of Wisconsin and North Carolina have placed a friendly bet ahead of Monday night's NCAA Championship game between the Wisconsin Badgers and Duke Blue Devils. More >>
The governors of Wisconsin and North Carolina have placed a friendly bet ahead of Monday night's NCAA Championship game between the Wisconsin Badgers and Duke Blue Devils. More >>
   
All content © Copyright 2000 - 2015 WorldNow and WKOW. All Rights Reserved.

