 
By Kristina Wong - 04/06/15 09:54 AM EDT
Men in U.S. special operations forces do not believe women can meet the physical and mental standards to become special operators, and fear that standards will be lowered to integrate women into the elite units, according to surveys. 
The surveys, reported by the Associated Press, show "major misconceptions" within special operations about whether women should be able to serve in currently-male only special operations jobs. They also revealed concerns that Pentagon leaders would "capitulate to political pressure, allowing erosion of training standards." 
Some of the concerns were also found among women, the AP said. 
The surveys are part of the Pentagon's effort to integrate women into all military combat jobs by January 2016, or provide reasons why jobs should remain closed. 
Pentagon leaders, under Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, lifted the ban on combat jobs previously closed to women in 2012. 
Each service has conducted its own study and used their own methods to open the previously closed jobs. The surveys were a part of U.S. Special Operations Command's efforts to integrate women into combat jobs -- which include the Navy SEALs and Army Delta Forces who work in small teams in remote locations. 
One of the surveys, by RAND Corps., found concerns that women could meet the job demands, that sexual harassment or assault could increase, and that women would be treated differently -- more favorably or more harshly -- than men. 
So far, about 7,200 positions within the special operations forces have been opened to women, according to the AP. For the first time, a female last year made it through training to become a pilot in the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment, a specialized unit known as "Night Stalkers" that flies behind enemy lines at night. 
Three more female pilots are going through initial training, as well as several dozens for other positions with the unit. 
Gen. Joseph Votel, head of Socom, said in an email last month to the special operations community said its leaders had done initial analysis, according to the AP. 
They are looking at the "social and cultural challenges" of integrating women into the special operations combat jobs, and will next analyze requirements for the jobs to make sure standards are accurate and gender neutral.
"We will continue in our commitment to provide the best manned, trained, and equipped special operations personnel to execute our nation's most difficult and sensitive missions," Votel said. "With that in mind, we can assure you that our high standards will not be lowered."
Tags:
1 day
Indiana pizzeria owners go... The owners of Memories Pizza have raised more than $750,000 this week.
Clinton has inevitability, but... Jeb Bush seems to have the edge in key battleground states.
Fiorina blasts Apple CEO's '... The 2016 hopeful said Apple does business in other countries with laws...
Obama officials launch full-court... Administration officials are hitting the phones, asking Congress to hold...
GOP lawmaker calls for term limits Rep. Marino's bill would only allow lawmakers in both chambers to serve up...
Huckabee: Liberals put more... The 2016 hopeful blamed the "militant gay community" for the controversy...
Nigerian power shift leaves... Millions of dollars' worth of lobbying deals could be in jeopardy.
Lawmaker offers 'one subject at a... The GOP proposal would allow bills to only deal with a single issue.
How will Hillary announce? It’s no longer a question of will Clinton run for president. It’s a...
For Dems, a star is born? Connecticut Gov. Dannel Malloy has raised his profile with his attacks on...
Reid's exit removes obstacle to... For more than a decade, he has used his leadership spot to block the...
Senate Democrats' new point man on... Sen. Ben Cardin is being thrust into the center of the tense Capitol Hill...
Azealia Banks: 'I want to f--- the... The rapper says she likes Obama's "big-ass white teeth and ears."
Top Dems voice 'great skepticism'... Some in Obama's party doubt the Iranians can be trusted to make good on...
Warren calls Iran deal 'our best... "There are some good signs at this point that there may be a negotiated...
Hezbollah: Iran in 'nuclear club'... A Hezbollah leader hailed the Iran deal as a major win for the Islamic...
Dem lawmaker tying the knot in... Rep. Cedric Richmond will take the plunge on Saturday in Las Vegas, ITK...
DHS secretary apologizes to... Jeh Johnson called for a probe into the release of the GOP chairman’s...
Miley Cyrus goes after Republican... The pop star hit Sen. Tom Cotton for his remarks about Indiana's religious...
Email Alerts *

