NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Rockets’ Dwight Howard Avoids Suspension for a Foul
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Houston Rockets center Dwight Howard will not be suspended for Game 5 of the Western Conference finals against the Golden State Warriors after the N.B.A. decided to uphold his flagrant-1 foul. Rod Thorn, the N.B.A.’s president for basketball operations, said in a statement Tuesday that Howard was trying to free himself from Andrew Bogut when Howard “recklessly hit him in the face with an open hand.” Howard could have been suspended for Wednesday’s game if the N.B.A. had upgraded the foul to a flagrant-2.
■ Atlanta Hawks guard Kyle Korver will have surgery on his right ankle, which he injured in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals.
A version of this brief appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Rockets’ Howard Avoids Suspension for a Foul. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Harden keeps Rockets alive
(AP) / 27 May 2015
Warriors star and league MVP Curry lands on his head in a nasty spill
Houston — Houston’s James Harden scored a playoff career-high 45 points to lead the Rockets to a start-to-finish 128-115 victory over Golden State on Monday to stave off elimination from the NBA playoffs.
The Rockets scored 45 points in the first quarter - equaling a playoff record - to quickly get on top. They were up by 22 in the second quarter when Warriors star and league MVP Stephen Curry landed on his head in a nasty spill and missed about 12 minutes before returning.
Curry’s first field goal after returning was a 3-pointer that got Golden State within six points with less than 8-1/2 minutes remaining. But Harden, who had 17 points in the fourth quarter, scored the next seven points as part of 10 straight by Houston to push the lead to 114-98 and effectively end it, cutting the series deficit to 3-1.
Klay Thompson had 24 points and Curry added 23 for Golden State, which had been looking to secure its first trip to the NBA Finals since 1975 after routing Houston 115-80 on Saturday night to take a 3-0 lead in the series.
The Warriors will try again at home in Game 5 on Wednesday.
Houston bounced back from a 3-1 deficit to the Los Angeles Clippers in the conference semifinals. But they face a much bigger challenge in this series, as no team in NBA history has won a playoff series after trailing 3-0.
Houston’s Dwight Howard had 14 points and 12 rebounds, and received a flagrant 1 foul early in the third quarter after throwing an elbow at Andrew Bogut’s head. He would be suspended by accumulation of flagrant foul points if the NBA upgrades it to a flagrant 2 after review. The Warriors made 20 3-pointers and Houston had 17 to set an NBA record for most 3-pointers combined in a playoff game.
 

