NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Rockets’ Dwight Howard Avoids Suspension for a Foul
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Houston Rockets center Dwight Howard will not be suspended for Game 5 of the Western Conference finals against the Golden State Warriors after the N.B.A. decided to uphold his flagrant-1 foul. Rod Thorn, the N.B.A.’s president for basketball operations, said in a statement Tuesday that Howard was trying to free himself from Andrew Bogut when Howard “recklessly hit him in the face with an open hand.” Howard could have been suspended for Wednesday’s game if the N.B.A. had upgraded the foul to a flagrant-2.
■ Atlanta Hawks guard Kyle Korver will have surgery on his right ankle, which he injured in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals.
A version of this brief appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Rockets’ Howard Avoids Suspension for a Foul. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Even in deep hole, Houston shows resolve in confidence game
Image 1of/1
gallery_thumbnails_show|article-gallery-6288156|article-gallery-6288156|0
gallery_overlay_open|article-gallery-6288156|article-gallery-6288156|0
gallery_overlay_open_thumbs|article-gallery-6288156|article-gallery-6288156|0
Image 1 of 1
Stephen Curry will play Wednesday after a hard fall; Dwight Howard will not be suspended.
Photo: Ronald Martinez, Getty Images
Stephen Curry will play Wednesday after a hard fall; Dwight Howard...
Even in deep hole, Houston shows resolve in confidence game
1 / 1
gallery_thumbs_close|article-gallery-6288156|article-gallery-6288156|0
gallery_overlay_close|article-gallery-6288156|article-gallery-6288156|0
HOUSTON — As the Warriors’ brass, staff and media sporadically filed into the Toyota Center pregame dining area Monday night, they  were greeted with two things: a smile and a comment that still echoed Tuesday.
“We’ll see you Friday,” the Houston Rockets ’ greeter said over and over.
That’s confidence.
Houston was down 3-0 in the Western Conference finals against the Warriors at the time. And the Rockets still have to win in Wednesday’s Game 5 at Oracle Arena — a place where the Warriors have lost three times in 48 games this season — to force the series back to Houston for a Game 6 on Friday.
But confidence seems to permeate Houston’s organization as it approaches another potential elimination game that will be played with two of the series’ biggest stars available — despite worries about both.
Warriors point guard Stephen Curry is expected to play in Wednesday’s Game 5, two nights after a horrific fall onto the back of his neck and shoulder that was shocking enough to leave him face down on the hardwood for several minutes.
Houston center Dwight Howard will play Wednesday, a night after the NBA upheld his Game 4 flagrant-1 foul — instead of listening to some who wanted his third-quarter backhand slap to Andrew Bogut ’s temple to be upgraded to a flagrant-2 foul, which would have resulted in a one-game suspension.
With the stars in lineup, the focus of the series trains back to confidence — something Houston displayed in abundance after overcoming a 3-1 deficit to the Clippers in the West semifinals. Including their sound beating of the Warriors on Monday, the Rockets moved to 4-0 in elimination games this postseason and 8-2 all-time in such games under head coach Kevin McHale .
“We’ve been in this position before. I don’t know why it happens to us, but that’s the makeup of this team and the identity of this team,” said Rockets point guard Jason Terry , who won a ring with Dallas in 2011. “It’ll be something to remember when we do something special. We have champions on this team. We’re never going to quit. We’re never going to give up on each other. … It’s their job to close it out, but it’s our job to get to four (wins) before they do. That’s what the series is all about.”
The regular season was all about clinching home-court advantage, something the Warriors did nearly two weeks before it ended. If the West finals continue to seven games, the Warriors will play two of the final three games at Oracle Arena, which has hosted sellout crowds for 130 consecutive games and built a reputation as one of the league’s most raucous venues.
“We’re going to the lion’s den, but we feel like we can overcome if we go in there with the right mind-set and finish each play, each possession,” Howard said. “...We became closer as a team by going through what we went through in the last series. We’re back in that same position, so we’ve got to appreciate going through this journey together, take it one game and one possession at a time and continue to look at the big picture, which is to win a championship. With our backs against the wall, we have to fight.”
It’s a fight that the Warriors are plenty confident about winning, too. In fact, they predicted a knockout.
A memo from their public relations staff that was leaked late Monday and found its way into the Houston locker room said, “The Golden State Warriors will return to Oakland (on Tuesday) following their 4-0 series sweep of the Houston Rockets in the Western Conference Finals,” proving the team’s assurance.
The Warriors are 7-1 against Houston this season. They went 39-2 at Oracle Arena during the regular season and have won six of seven games at home during the postseason.
“There’s motivation to not have to come back to Houston and to go to the NBA Finals for the first time in 40 years,” Warriors shooting guard Klay Thompson said. “It’s not going to be easy. They’re here for a reason. We’ve just got to come play with intensity for 48 minutes, and we’ll win the game.”
That’s confidence.
Rusty Simmons is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail: rsimmons@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @Rusty_SFChron
Game 5
TV/Radio: ESPN/680
West finals
Warriors lead best-of-seven series 3-1. All games will be at 6 p.m. and on ESPN.
Game 1: Warriors 110, Rockets 106
Game 2: Warriors 99, Rockets 98
Game 3: Warriors 115, Rockets 80
Game 4: Rockets 128, Warriors 115
Game 5: Wednesday, at Warriors
Game 6: Friday, at Rockets*
Game 7: Sunday, at Warriors*
* — if necessary

