NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Rockets’ Dwight Howard Avoids Suspension for a Foul
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Houston Rockets center Dwight Howard will not be suspended for Game 5 of the Western Conference finals against the Golden State Warriors after the N.B.A. decided to uphold his flagrant-1 foul. Rod Thorn, the N.B.A.’s president for basketball operations, said in a statement Tuesday that Howard was trying to free himself from Andrew Bogut when Howard “recklessly hit him in the face with an open hand.” Howard could have been suspended for Wednesday’s game if the N.B.A. had upgraded the foul to a flagrant-2.
■ Atlanta Hawks guard Kyle Korver will have surgery on his right ankle, which he injured in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals.
A version of this brief appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Rockets’ Howard Avoids Suspension for a Foul. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Travel Deals
TOM MAHON, Daily News Staff Writer mahont@phillynews.com
Posted: Wednesday, May 27, 2015, 3:01 AM
ROCKETS CENTER Dwight Howard was one of several hundred stranded at the Toyota Center after Game 4 of the Western Conference finals on Monday night due to flash flooding in Houston.
But instead of lamenting his fate, he went back onto the arena floor and mingled with the fans.
Howard, signed autographs and posed for pictures while waiting out the harsh weather. His mom and young son - who played catch with fans - were also there.
"I can't go nowhere, so I'm with the fans," Howard told KPRC News.
More coverage
The Rockets had defeated Golden State, 128-115, to avoid being swept. Game 5 is tonight in Oakland.
As the end of the game neared, a message was posted on the scoreboard advising fans to stay in the building until the severe weather passed. Between 6 and 10 inches of rain fell Monday, causing flooding throughout the Houston area.
Howard reportedly stayed in the arena until 1:30 a.m. Some fans stayed much later.
"Sleepy . . . crazy . . . but fine," he said of the ordeal. "I think if we would have lost, everybody in this arena would be trying to find a way to get out of here despite the flood. We got a good win and it just stinks that all these people can't get home and get to their families and their loved ones."
Devil, you say
Former NFL receiver Joe Horn won't be having dinner with commissioner Roger Goodell anytime soon.
Asked his feelings on the state of the NFL, Horn teed off on Goodell.
 
Comment policy:
Philly.com comments are intended to be civil, friendly conversations. Please treat other participants with respect and in a way that you would want to be treated. You are responsible for what you say. And please, stay on topic. If you see an objectionable post, please report it to us using the "Report Abuse" option.
Please note that comments are monitored by Philly.com staff. We reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable. Personal attacks, especially on other participants, are not permitted. We reserve the right to permanently block any user who violates these terms and conditions.
 
CARS:
Newsletter
Get the latest Sports Wrap Up newsletter delivered to your email. Sign up now!

