Todd Gloria announces run for State Assembly
Posted 10:01 AM, April 7, 2015, by FOX 5 Digital Team , Updated at 10:13am, April 7, 2015
Todd Gloria announces run for State Assembly
SAN DIEGO – San Diego City Councilman Todd Gloria announced Tuesday his plans to run for the State Assembly in the 78th District.
Gloria is seeking the seat currently held by Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins, D-San Diego. He is being termed out of the City Council, and she will be termed out of the Assembly.
“I want to continue that progress as San Diego’s voice in our State Capitol. That’s why I’m announcing today that I am running for State Assembly in the 78th District,” Gloria posted on his website .
During his two terms on the City Council, he has served as the body’s president, chairman of its Budget Committee and interim mayor, a position he held for six months following the resignation of disgraced former Mayor Bob Filner in August 2013.
“My time in public service has included some of the toughest challenges we’ve faced as a City,” Gloria posted online.  “From dealing with one of the deepest recessions in this country’s history to cleaning up after a scandal that rocked the very foundation of City government, it has not always been easy.”
Gloria’s message pointed out the specific areas where he helped San Diego during the recession.
“Among the many lessons I learned during that time, one is very clear: When we all work together, we can make tremendous progress.  Together, we have stabilized the City’s budget, advocated for housing, protected our environment and stood up for working families.”
“You have all invested so much in me, whether it is your time, your money or simply your trust.  I am indebted to all of you and believe I have a lot more to give back to the people of San Diego.  I’m also excited about the opportunity to serve other communities and to apply everything I’ve learned to tackle regional and statewide issues.”
Coinciding with Gloria’s announcement, another expected candidate, Sarah Boot, said she will not run for the state office. Boot ran for City Council last year but lost to Councilwoman Lorie Zapf.
Ed Harris, the head of the city’s lifeguards union, previously announced that he would run for an Assembly seat. Harris held a San Diego City Council seat on an interim basis for nine months after Kevin Faulconer became mayor.
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
• Copyright © 2015, KSWB
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

