Fargo, N.D. • A worker-owner of a Fargo coffee shop who instituted a tongue-in-cheek ban on North Dakota lawmakers for opposing an anti-discrimination bill says the response has been "99.9 % optimistic" and that he produced his point, even if a few persons...
Fargo, N.D. • A worker-owner of a Fargo coffee shop who instituted a tongue-in-cheek ban on North Dakota lawmakers for opposing an anti-discrimination bill says the response has been "99.9 % optimistic" and that he produced his point, even if a few persons didn't like it.
Joe Curry, one particular of the worker-owners of the Red Raven Espresso Parlor, posted a newspaper page in the shop earlier this month that showed the 55 Republican state Property members who rejected a bill that would have prohibited discrimination based on sexual orientation in housing, government, public services and the workplace. It was accompanied by a sign saying the legislators have been banned, "Unless accompanied by a lesbian, gay, bisexual or transsexual, queer, intersex or asexual particular person."
The stunt got a lot of interest, with Republican-led legislatures in Indiana and Arkansas having just rolled back their new religious objections laws below pressure from critics who regarded the laws invitations to discriminate against the LGBT neighborhood. Curry said he wanted to use humor to make a significant point and to show support for his prospects, whom he describes as mainly "lefties" in a conservative state.
"The ban was, I thought, pretty tongue in cheek, requiring them to be escorted by someone from the LBGT community," Curry said Wednesday. "I hope that they believed about it, at least, and I hope some of them giggled. But in the end, they are all welcome here."
Not absolutely everyone giggled.
State Rep. Josh Boschee, a Red Raven standard and the state's only openly gay lawmaker, stated he didn't like the tactic.
"I recognize what they are trying to make a point but I would have done it differently," the Fargo Democrat mentioned.
Republican state Rep. Jim Kasper, a neighborhood who voted against the legislation, stated he's never ever been in the coffee shop due to the fact he doesn't get downtown much. He also took the ban seriously and went as far as to help the premise.
"They have the great right to refuse any person they want," Kasper said.
The ban got consideration on cable news shows. MSNBC's Melissa Harris-Perry described it as her "favored thing that occurred this week" and wondered aloud if Fargo was a "center of LBGT rights."
Curry said the coffee shop received an outpouring of adore on social media. One of his prospects baked him a cake and another made him a patch with the message, "Solidarity forever." The 3 Democratic state lawmakers who represent the Red Raven's district sent him a gift basket.
The handful of critics that came forward had been vocal, Curry stated.
"It was just a handful, but some of them were talking about militant gay agenda, which I hadn't heard of," he said. "A few telephone calls telling us that we were hypocrites and working with some language that was slightly hurtful, but absolutely nothing that will influence us long term."
The Red Raven caters to a younger crowd that involves higher school and college students and young professors in an region that has three four-year universities. It has an art gallery and a stage for poets, musicians and comedians. It is one of the few establishments in town that holds all-ages shows.
Albert Whitcomb, a 69-year-old typical who describes himself as a "genuine hippy and activist," joked with Curry for the duration of a recent go to that he stopped in to get Curry's autograph for the "awesome adventure" more than the anti-discrimination bill.
"It will price you," Curry joked.
Curry took down the sign and photos a few days ago, but he hasn't ruled out posting them once again. He believes the show served its purpose.
"I feel the statement was created and I feel it a chord with a lot of individuals," Curry mentioned. "I consider it encapsulated a lot of the anger and disgust with all the folks who shared it. It did its job. It opened the doors to a lot of discussion and I assume a lot of that discussion, at least what I was hearing, was good."
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

