Posted by Mike Florio on April 9, 2015, 6:20 PM EDT
AP
The jury responsible for the first Aaron Hernandez murder case has now been deliberating for two full days and part of another.  Because of something that happened after the first full day of deliberations, a Boston TV news photographer has been ordered to stay out of the courthouse until a verdict is reached.
Via the Boston Globe, Judge E. Susan Garsh has banned Robert Cusanelli from entering the Bristol County Superior Court building and from driving a WHDH-TV vehicle for the purpose of doing reporting work on the case.
Cusanelli admitted while testifying that he followed the bus that takes the jurors to their cars.  He said he “thought it would be a good idea” to figure out where they parked.
Cusanelli’s cover was blown because he opted to follow the bus in a van bearing conspicuously the letters W, H, D, and H, in that specific order.  He said in court that he has made no effort to contact or interact with the jurors.
WHDH separately explained that it hopes to be able to win the race to interview jurors after the case, a common practice following the rendering of a verdict in a high-profile prosecution.  Judge Garsh warned all news organizations that any attempt to contact jurors while the case is pending could result in serious criminal sanctions.
“To all of you, you cannot approach, question, harass, or follow any juror and there are state felony statues that prohibit any form of juror harassment,” Judge Garsh said.
The deliberations will continue on Friday at 9:00 a.m. ET.  If a unanimous verdict can’t be reached, a mistrial will be declared.  And the entire case possibly would be tried all over again, with a new jury.
If the Glock don’t fit you must acquit!
iammrbinky says:
Apr 9, 2015 6:30 PM
2 and a half days tells me you have a hung jury.
Apr 9, 2015 6:38 PM
How about going after his boss? How about going after the station manager?  How about going after the owner of the station?  This guy didn’t decide to following anyone of his own volition.
iammrbinky says:
Apr 9, 2015 6:30 PM
————-
I hope you’re kidding. It’s not uncommon for deliberations to take more than one day, and I’d imagine in a case as high profile as this the jurors are extra meticulous to ensure nobody questions whether or not they devoted enough time to their verdict.
joeconnorjr says:
Apr 9, 2015 6:46 PM
They have a fair number of charges to consider, especially with the various forms of homicide, and they heard a ton of testimony. Therefore, I wouldn’t be thinking hung jury just yet. If they haven’t reached a verdict by tomorrow at this time, I would start to worry if I were the prosecutor.
It doesn’t sound as if they’re very close to a verdict. Usually, at the end of the day, the judge gives the jury the option of going home or continuing their deliberations a little longer.  If they choose the latter, it usually means that they’re close to a verdict. It appears that they did not ask to stay late today.
What’s peculiar is that the jury has not yet asked for any read-back of testimony. That’s unusual in a trial this long and with this many witnesses. It may suggest that they’ve already decided what the facts are and are now trying to determine if those facts constitute a criminal offense or what criminal offense they constitute (e.g., first-degree murder vs. second-degree).
asmodean13 says:
Apr 9, 2015 7:23 PM
Slimy press. Goes to prove the media is just plain stupid.
Apr 9, 2015 7:33 PM
He should be arrested, this kind of thing can get jurors murdered.
roadwarrior99 says:
Apr 9, 2015 7:45 PM
Hmmm, a reporter from New England looking to gain an unfair advantage on his competition. Seems I’ve heard this story before.
Apr 9, 2015 7:48 PM
jury is going to be out awhile, there’s something like over 400 exhibits and God knows how many hours of testimony.
And woe be to anyone that causes a mistrial, the state has probably spent a couple mil on this trial.
Apr 9, 2015 7:54 PM
I’m sure he’s not the only one who did it.  He was just the only one stupid enough to do it in a news van.
Leave a Reply
You must be logged in to leave a comment. Not a member? Register now!
NBCSN Channel Finder

