— Can Rick Santorum make lightning strike twice?
The former Pennsylvania senator surged from single digits to win the Iowa caucuses in 2012, surprising even those within his shoestring campaign operation. Thanks to a combination of good timing, a solid base of evangelical voters and a sharp contrast to a moderate front-runner, he outlasted all but former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney in the race for the nomination.
But three years later, Santorum is back where he started in public polls, tallying single digits as he reintroduces himself to voters in Iowa, New Hampshire and elsewhere.
This time, the Republican primary field is wider and still growing: When he announces his campaign intentions Wednesday afternoon in Butler County, Santorum will be the first of four Republicans expected to do so in the next 10 days.
Add in the six GOP candidates who already have formally launched presidential bids and several others who are leading in national polls, and Santorum is at risk of not making it on stage for the first Republican debate in August.
His chief campaign strategist, John Brabender, acknowledges that the 2016 presidential field is shaping up to be a much different battleground than the one Santorum's team encountered in 2012. The larger field features an array of more-qualified candidates whom Brabender expects will not drop out of the competition as quickly.
"This time is much more complicated for every candidate," Brabender said in an interview. "The question is, do you have a base, do you have the type of support where you can get your share of the vote and not get thrown off the island, so to speak?"
Born in Virginia, where he lives now, Santorum spent much of his childhood near the Butler County town of Cabot, where he'll be addressing reporters Wednesday. He'll speak at a manufacturing facility in a community where Brabender says many could be described as the blue-collar, working families Santorum believes are being left behind by national economic policies.
Unlike potential opponents currently holding office, Santorum, 57, has largely been out of the political spotlight. As he has re-emerged, he's been focusing his message on economic and foreign-policy issues.
Both areas have continued to rise in importance since the last presidential cycle, as the economy has crawled toward a stronger recovery and new threats have emerged in the Middle East. Both issues also would keep him away from social issues, about which his past remarks have drawn criticism.
Blue-collar economics isn't necessarily a new message for Santorum, who spent two U.S. House terms representing the Pittsburgh suburbs and an additional two terms as U.S. senator. His House district encompassed old steel towns still reeling from mills closing down.
As his status rose, Santorum became better known for divisive answers to social questions, such as gay marriage and abortion. That earned him derision from the left but bona fides among conservatives, though those voters are only part of the equation this time, political observers say.
"This cycle, in particular, running mainly on social issues isn't enough to win," said University of Virginia political science professor Larry Sabato. "It's a much stronger field than in 2012, and Santorum has even more competition for evangelicals in Iowa and South Carolina, the two early states where conservative Christians have the most impact."
In January 2012, Santorum won the Iowa caucuses. That February, he lost South Carolina and Michigan, but won three other contests, becoming Romney's chief rival. In March and early April, though, Santorum lost bellwether contests in Wisconsin, Ohio and Illinois.
He suspended his campaign April 10, two weeks before the Pennsylvania primary.
Brabender says Santorum has a strong track record on economic issues and foreign policy matters, though his qualifications in those areas haven't gotten as much national attention. One effort, he said, will be working to ensure Santorum isn't defined by a single issue.
Still, to keep talking about those issues, Santorum likely will need to move his poll figures, even slightly, before the lists of initial debate participants are finalized. Both Fox News and CNN are cutting off the debate crowd at the top 10, according to public polling. (CNN also will have a second portion of its September debate featuring others polling above 1 percent, and Fox will give additional air time to candidates excluded from the stage on Aug. 6).
Current polls show Santorum on the brink of the debate field, with the most favorable averages giving him the 10th spot on stage. But other surveys that include real estate magnate Donald Trump, a potential candidate, put Santorum just out of the running.
Not making the debate stages would come with a hit, Sabato said.
"It is going to be hard to avoid the label 'also-ran' and to keep supporters and donors excited," he said.
Santorum has criticized the debate rules, calling them "arbitrary" and arguing that national polls don't capture a candidate's viability.
A better benchmark, Brabender argues, is the number of volunteers Santorum has been able to recruit and retain, putting him far ahead of where he was at this point in his past bid.
While his 2012 campaign ended just prior to the Pennsylvania primary, Santorum maintained a network through his Patriot Voices PAC. He now counts 2,500 team leaders on the ground throughout the country, including coordinators in each of Iowa's 99 counties.
"We probably had two at this point last time," Brabender said.
Sabato urged caution in counting Santorum out of the race, noting that few if any analysts picked him to come in second the last election cycle, and crediting his doggedness on the campaign trail. Santorum reached Capitol Hill by defeating incumbents Doug Walgren and Harris Wofford in Democrat-majority Pennsylvania, and former staffers recall him as a tireless campaigner.
Others, though, are less convinced. While his strategy of hanging in the race worked OK in a different field, these candidates are likely to carve up the Republican base in more complicated ways, Franklin & Marshall College pollster and political scientist G. Terry Madonna said.
"It's hard to imagine a scenario where he wins the nomination," Madonna said.
Regardless of 2016's outcome, one thing should feel familiar to Santorum: being labeled a long shot.

