Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I am a senior editor at Reason magazine and a nationally syndicated columnist. I am the author of Saying Yes: In Defense of Drug Use (Tarcher/Penguin) and For Your Own Good: The Anti-Smoking Crusade and the Tyranny of Public Health (Free Press). My work on drug policy and civil liberties has appeared in Cigar Aficionado, Seed, National Review, The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, the San Francisco Chronicle, and many other publications.
Loading...
Loading...
On October 31, 1996, the Sanilac County Sheriff’s Office, which serves a largely rural area in Michigan’s thumb, got a call from a local resident who said he was concerned about his neighbor, Darrell Hayden. No one had heard from Hayden for several days, the man said, and his horses were wandering down Argyle Road. The deputies who went to check on Hayden’s welfare got no response when they knocked on the door of his trailer, so they let themselves in and wandered around. They did not find Hayden, but they did find a plastic bag of marijuana on a dresser in his bedroom. That discovery led to a search warrant, which revealed a grow operation involving thousands of cannabis plants, mixed in with the corn.
Hayden, a Kentucky-born Vietnam veteran with nine siblings, four children, and several grandchildren, had been busted for growing pot before. The first time, he got 60 days in the county jail. The second time, he served five months. This time he received a life sentence , the mandatory minimum that federal law prescribes for someone with two prior convictions who grows 1,000 or more marijuana plants. “He’s seen murderers and bank robbers come and go while he’s been in prison,” his daughter, Lisa Hayden, told a Kentucky newspaper last year. “Something’s really wrong with that.”
Darrell Hayden with his family (Image: Facebook)
Evidently President Obama agreed. Hayden was one of 22 drug offenders whose sentences Obama commuted on Tuesday. Now 65, he has spent 16 years in federal prison for managing that marijuana farm in Michigan. But instead of dying behind bars, he is scheduled to be released in July, along with seven other drug war prisoners serving life sentences for offenses involving cocaine, methamphetamine, and heroin.
Obama’s latest batch of commutations, which doubled his total total in a single day, suggests that the president, whose clemency record during his first term was remarkably stingy , is beginning to make up for lost time. Last year the Justice Department signaled a new openness to clemency petitions, laying out criteria for the sort of applications the president wanted to see. An unnamed “senior administration official”  told   Yahoo Yahoo News the new guidelines could result in commutations for “hundreds, perhaps thousands” of federal prisoners by the end of Obama’s second term. The president will have to pick up the pace to reach that goal. But his avowed interest in ameliorating the egregious injustices inflicted by federal drug laws seems to be more than rhetorical.
Most of the drug offenders whose sentences Obama has shortened so far, including 13 of the 22 prisoners whose petitions he granted on Tuesday, were convicted of crack cocaine offenses. There is a good reason for that: Crack sentences are especially harsh, and although Congress reduced them in 2010, it did not make the changes retroactive. That means thousands of crack offenders are still serving terms that almost everyone now agrees are too long.
The Smarter Sentencing Act , which was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee last year but never got a floor vote, would address that problem by making the 2010 changes retroactive. The bill was reintroduced in February, but its prospects are uncertain . In the meantime, Obama has the power to bring crack sentences in line with what the law currently deems appropriate.
“Had they been sentenced under current laws and policies,” presidential adviser Neil Eggleston  wrote on the White House blog when this week’s commutations were announced, “many of these individuals would have already served their time and paid their debt to society. Because many were convicted under an outdated sentencing regime, they served years—in some cases more than a decade—longer than individuals convicted today of the same crime.” The crack offenders on the latest commutation list received sentences ranging from 20 years to life but will instead end up serving seven to 22 years.
Page 1 / 2
Enter Your Comment

