Markets | Tue May 26, 2015 10:34pm EDT
Oil recovers from drop of over 2 percent, U.S. crude stocks in focus
SINGAPORE | By Florence Tan
Oil pump jacks are seen next to a strawberry field in Oxnard, California February 24, 2015.
Reuters/Lucy Nicholson
SINGAPORE Crude futures rose on Wednesday to recover ground from sharp drops in the previous session, boosted by expectations that U.S. crude stocks could fall for a fourth straight week.
Prices were also supported by comments from western diplomats that a nuclear deal with Iran was unlikely by a June 30 deadline and that the oil producer would not get sanctions relief before the end of the year in the best of cases.
July Brent crude LCOc1 had risen 14 cents to $63.86 a barrel by 0228 GMT, while U.S. crude was up 29 cents at $58.32 a barrel. Both contracts fell more than 2 percent on Tuesday after a stronger greenback curbed buying interest in dollar-denominated commodities such as oil.
U.S. commercial crude inventories likely decreased by 2 million barrels last week, a preliminary Reuters survey showed. Declining U.S. stockpiles of crude and oil products in past weeks indicate robust demand in the world's largest oil consumer, supporting prices. [EIA/S]
Investors have also started taking profits on Brent as hedge funds and money managers cut their bets on rising prices for a second straight week.
"Further unwinding of these positions would remove a key pillar of support to prices," analysts at BMI Research said in a note.
"This trajectory reinforces our view of downside still to be priced in the oil price in the second half of 2015," BMI said, adding that they expected Brent to average $59 a barrel this year.
Investors remained wary of ample supply as top OPEC producers Saudi Arabia and Iraq kept exports near record levels. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries is expected to keep production steady at its meeting on June 5.
"I am not so bullish on fundamentals," said a bank trader who declined to be named due to company policy. "Brent could possibly go down to $60 on profit-taking."
The American Petroleum Institute will release its data on Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. ET, delayed by one day because of the U.S. Memorial Day holiday on Monday, while the Energy Information Administration will publish its data on Thursday at 11:00 a.m ET.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


Commodities | Wed May 27, 2015 5:57am IST
NYMEX-Oil prices rise as diplomats say Iran deal unlikely before June deadline
SINGAPORE
SINGAPORE May 27 Crude oil prices stabilised on Wednesday after falling sharply in the previous session, with western diplomats saying a nuclear deal with Iran was unlikely by a June 30 deadline.
Ambassadors said a deal that could allow western sanctions to be lifted this year and Iran's huge oil supplies to re-enter the market was unlikely before the deadline due to unresolved technical details.
Oil prices fell nearly 3 percent the previous session as the dollar's rally weighed on greenback-denominated crude oil futures along with expectations that production by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) as well as from U.S. shale drillers will remain high.
FUNDAMENTALS
* Front-month U.S. crude futures were up 35 cents from their last settlement at $58.38 per barrel by 0019 GMT on Wednesday.
* Brent futures climbed 28 cents to $64 a barrel.
MARKETS NEWS
The U.S. dollar rallied this week and remains near one-month highs after a string of healthy economic data boosted near-term rate hike prospects, while Greece's financial crisis and signs of growing opposition to austerity in Spain weighed further on the euro.
DATA/EVENTS
0600   Germany   GfK consumer sentiment   Jun
0645   France    Consumer confidence      May
(Reporting by Henning Gloystein; Editing by Joseph Radford)
Trending On Reuters
Low inflation gives India chance to cut rates, but window could close  Full Article  
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

