Markets | Tue May 26, 2015 10:34pm EDT
Oil recovers from drop of over 2 percent, U.S. crude stocks in focus
SINGAPORE | By Florence Tan
Oil pump jacks are seen next to a strawberry field in Oxnard, California February 24, 2015.
Reuters/Lucy Nicholson
SINGAPORE Crude futures rose on Wednesday to recover ground from sharp drops in the previous session, boosted by expectations that U.S. crude stocks could fall for a fourth straight week.
Prices were also supported by comments from western diplomats that a nuclear deal with Iran was unlikely by a June 30 deadline and that the oil producer would not get sanctions relief before the end of the year in the best of cases.
July Brent crude LCOc1 had risen 14 cents to $63.86 a barrel by 0228 GMT, while U.S. crude was up 29 cents at $58.32 a barrel. Both contracts fell more than 2 percent on Tuesday after a stronger greenback curbed buying interest in dollar-denominated commodities such as oil.
U.S. commercial crude inventories likely decreased by 2 million barrels last week, a preliminary Reuters survey showed. Declining U.S. stockpiles of crude and oil products in past weeks indicate robust demand in the world's largest oil consumer, supporting prices. [EIA/S]
Investors have also started taking profits on Brent as hedge funds and money managers cut their bets on rising prices for a second straight week.
"Further unwinding of these positions would remove a key pillar of support to prices," analysts at BMI Research said in a note.
"This trajectory reinforces our view of downside still to be priced in the oil price in the second half of 2015," BMI said, adding that they expected Brent to average $59 a barrel this year.
Investors remained wary of ample supply as top OPEC producers Saudi Arabia and Iraq kept exports near record levels. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries is expected to keep production steady at its meeting on June 5.
"I am not so bullish on fundamentals," said a bank trader who declined to be named due to company policy. "Brent could possibly go down to $60 on profit-taking."
The American Petroleum Institute will release its data on Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. ET, delayed by one day because of the U.S. Memorial Day holiday on Monday, while the Energy Information Administration will publish its data on Thursday at 11:00 a.m ET.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


Breaking
May 27, 2015 06:45 IST
NEW YORK Oil prices fell nearly 3 percent on Tuesday as the dollar's rally weighed on dollar-denominated crude oil futures along with concerns that a recent rally might keep U.S. producers active.
The U.S. dollar index rallied .DXY as Greece 's financial crisis and signs of increasing opposition to austerity in Spain pressured the euro. [MKTS/GLOB] [USD/]
"Pressuring oil is the dollar's strength on the concerns about Greece being able to make its debt payments and the U.S. Federal Reserve seeming to be closer to raising rates," said Phil Flynn, analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago.
Friday's weekly data showed U.S. drillers cut the number of rigs by just one last week and Goldman Sachs said prices were at a level that would spur activity, adding to a growing list of headwinds crude faces that include rising OPEC supply. [RIG/U]
On Sunday, Iran said the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) was unlikely to change its production ceiling at its meeting on June 5.
Brent crude for July delivery LCOc1 fell $1.80, or 2.75 percent, to settle at $63.72 a barrel, the weakest settlement since April 22. Tuesday's $63.29 intraday low was the lowest Brent price since it fell to $62.88 on April 23.
U.S. July crude CLc1 fell $1.69, or 2.83 percent, to settle at $58.03, having traded as low as $57.71.
"The main factor weighing on prices is the significantly appreciating U.S. dollar," said Carsten Fritsch, analyst at Commerzbank. "What is more, the decline in drilling activity in the U.S. that has been ongoing for 23 weeks appears to have stopped."
More drilling in the United States would lessen the prospect of a tighter oil market in coming months, one of the factors that have helped Brent rise from a near six-year low close to $45 in January.
"We believe that should West Texas Intermediate prices remain near $60 a barrel, U.S. producers will ramp up activity, given improved returns," Goldman said in a report.
A stronger dollar makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for buyers using other currencies, and tends to weigh on oil prices. The dollar hit a one-month high against a basket of major currencies on Tuesday.
"The USD downward correction is complete," Morgan Stanley said in a report. "A stronger dollar would only reinforce our near-term concerns for oil prices, especially Brent."
(Additional reporting by Alex Lawler in London and Henning Gloystein in Singapore; Editing by Marguerita Choy)
This story has not been edited by Firstpost staff and is generated by auto-feed.
more in Politics
shareworthy
Plus
Others

