Markets | Tue May 26, 2015 10:34pm EDT
Oil recovers from drop of over 2 percent, U.S. crude stocks in focus
SINGAPORE | By Florence Tan
Oil pump jacks are seen next to a strawberry field in Oxnard, California February 24, 2015.
Reuters/Lucy Nicholson
SINGAPORE Crude futures rose on Wednesday to recover ground from sharp drops in the previous session, boosted by expectations that U.S. crude stocks could fall for a fourth straight week.
Prices were also supported by comments from western diplomats that a nuclear deal with Iran was unlikely by a June 30 deadline and that the oil producer would not get sanctions relief before the end of the year in the best of cases.
July Brent crude LCOc1 had risen 14 cents to $63.86 a barrel by 0228 GMT, while U.S. crude was up 29 cents at $58.32 a barrel. Both contracts fell more than 2 percent on Tuesday after a stronger greenback curbed buying interest in dollar-denominated commodities such as oil.
U.S. commercial crude inventories likely decreased by 2 million barrels last week, a preliminary Reuters survey showed. Declining U.S. stockpiles of crude and oil products in past weeks indicate robust demand in the world's largest oil consumer, supporting prices. [EIA/S]
Investors have also started taking profits on Brent as hedge funds and money managers cut their bets on rising prices for a second straight week.
"Further unwinding of these positions would remove a key pillar of support to prices," analysts at BMI Research said in a note.
"This trajectory reinforces our view of downside still to be priced in the oil price in the second half of 2015," BMI said, adding that they expected Brent to average $59 a barrel this year.
Investors remained wary of ample supply as top OPEC producers Saudi Arabia and Iraq kept exports near record levels. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries is expected to keep production steady at its meeting on June 5.
"I am not so bullish on fundamentals," said a bank trader who declined to be named due to company policy. "Brent could possibly go down to $60 on profit-taking."
The American Petroleum Institute will release its data on Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. ET, delayed by one day because of the U.S. Memorial Day holiday on Monday, while the Energy Information Administration will publish its data on Thursday at 11:00 a.m ET.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


Aim higher, reach further.
Get the Wall Street Journal $12 for 12 weeks. Subscribe Now
Crude-oil futures are marginally higher in early Asian trade Wednesday
By
Updated May 26, 2015 10:20 p.m. ET
0216 GMT [Dow Jones] Crude-oil futures are marginally higher in early Asian trade Wednesday, attempting a rebound after sharp overnight losses of nearly 3% on the back of a strong U.S. dollar. In the last trading session, Brent crude probed the lowest level since April 22 as the U.S. dollar index climbed to the highest level in a month on stronger than expected U.S. economic data, Citi Futures says. “At least for the time being, the strength in the U.S. dollar has called attention away from declining U.S. petroleum inventories,” analyst Tim Evans says. Nymex WTI crude is up 31 cents at $58.34/bbl, Brent crude is up...
Popular on WSJ
Popular on WSJ

