April 11, 2015 at 4 a.m.
Over Palm Sunday weekend and immediately after, if you were paying attention, there was a huge feeding frenzy over the Indiana Legislature's passage of that state's Religious Freedom Restoration Act, signed into law by Republican Gov. Mike Pence and modeled after the federal law with the same name.
There is not enough space in this essay for a full history of the federal and state laws in view here. Suffice it to say the federal law was passed by a huge bipartisan majority in 1993 (only three dissenting votes) and signed into law by President Bill Clinton. After a 1997 Supreme Court ruling affecting state application of the law, a number of individual states passed their own such acts (Texas has one).
After the Indiana bill's signing, the mass media went apoplectic. Representatives of big business howled, celebrities such as Miley Cyrus made noise, and boycotts of the Hoosier State were threatened.
The reason, we were told by the establishment media, is that the legislation was, somehow, "anti-gay." ABC's George Stephanopolos, a former Clinton protégé, sang an all-too-typical tune when he asked an exasperated Pence if he believed in discriminating against gays and lesbians. This had the feel of the classic question, "When did you stop beating your wife?"  Or as Lewis Carroll's Queen of Hearts put it, "First the sentence, then the evidence."
And the evidence? When one examines the actual law, it is clear that its intent is not to discriminate against anyone, but to protect ordinary citizens. If any discrimination is within the context of the law, it is only discrimination between right and wrong.
Indiana Senate Act No. 101 is modeled after the federal RFRA and, by the way, nowhere mentions the word "homosexual."  That issue was not in view when the federal law was passed. However, it is worth noting that one of the legitimate concerns animating the passage of the law was the ability of traditional Christians and other people of faith and conscience to avoid being coerced into supporting activities and events they see as hostile to their faith.  Indeed, the federal act figured prominently in last year's Hobby Lobby ruling from the U.S. Supreme Court.  It should not surprise us that these good citizens do not wish to be driven out of business  solely because they embrace the view of marriage held, for example, by Jesus Christ in Matthew 19, and wish to live in accordance with that belief rather than offend their Lord.
It should go without saying that in America, "land of the free and the home of the brave," capitulation to the LGBT agenda should not be considered "the price of citizenship" (as an arrogant New Mexico judge put it).  If it becomes that, it will be an open question whether America is still a country worth dying for, or even living for.
"To make us love our country," Edmund Burke observed, "our country ought to be lovely."  I believe more than merely aesthetic concerns are in view here.  This goes to the question of what kind of people we are.
The flap over Indiana's RFRA, which mimics a similar episode in Arizona not long ago, is part of an unfortunate pattern emerging in recent years.  The establishment media, very much in league with the most leftist presidency in American history, have also fallen head over heels in love with the rainbow flag. They appear to be in thrall to whatever sweet nothings are whispered in their ears by groups like the Human Rights Campaign or GLAAD, and gladly engage in disinformation in the service of what they consider an exalted cause.  So when a law like the Indiana RFRA comes to the fore, they spout their politically fashionable lies, hoping millions will take their word for it and not do their own homework.  Far too often, they succeed.  And as a result, our freedoms continue to diminish.
Some final thoughts: John Dickinson, an all-too-often neglected member of the founding generation, observed in 1776, "Our liberties do not come from charters; for these are only the declarations of preexisting rights.  They do not depend on parchment or seals; but come from the King of Kings and the Lord of all the earth."  Almost two centuries later, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn courageously declared, "Live not by lies!"
These are words to remember as we view the bizarre merry-go-round that is Obama's America.
— Jeff McAlister, a Longview resident, is a  regular contributor to the Saturday Forum.
320 E. Methvin St. Longview, TX 75601 - Phone: (903) 757-3311

