Markets | Tue May 26, 2015 10:34pm EDT
Oil recovers from drop of over 2 percent, U.S. crude stocks in focus
SINGAPORE | By Florence Tan
Oil pump jacks are seen next to a strawberry field in Oxnard, California February 24, 2015.
Reuters/Lucy Nicholson
SINGAPORE Crude futures rose on Wednesday to recover ground from sharp drops in the previous session, boosted by expectations that U.S. crude stocks could fall for a fourth straight week.
Prices were also supported by comments from western diplomats that a nuclear deal with Iran was unlikely by a June 30 deadline and that the oil producer would not get sanctions relief before the end of the year in the best of cases.
July Brent crude LCOc1 had risen 14 cents to $63.86 a barrel by 0228 GMT, while U.S. crude was up 29 cents at $58.32 a barrel. Both contracts fell more than 2 percent on Tuesday after a stronger greenback curbed buying interest in dollar-denominated commodities such as oil.
U.S. commercial crude inventories likely decreased by 2 million barrels last week, a preliminary Reuters survey showed. Declining U.S. stockpiles of crude and oil products in past weeks indicate robust demand in the world's largest oil consumer, supporting prices. [EIA/S]
Investors have also started taking profits on Brent as hedge funds and money managers cut their bets on rising prices for a second straight week.
"Further unwinding of these positions would remove a key pillar of support to prices," analysts at BMI Research said in a note.
"This trajectory reinforces our view of downside still to be priced in the oil price in the second half of 2015," BMI said, adding that they expected Brent to average $59 a barrel this year.
Investors remained wary of ample supply as top OPEC producers Saudi Arabia and Iraq kept exports near record levels. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries is expected to keep production steady at its meeting on June 5.
"I am not so bullish on fundamentals," said a bank trader who declined to be named due to company policy. "Brent could possibly go down to $60 on profit-taking."
The American Petroleum Institute will release its data on Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. ET, delayed by one day because of the U.S. Memorial Day holiday on Monday, while the Energy Information Administration will publish its data on Thursday at 11:00 a.m ET.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


Its easy and FREE!
Password
Confirm Password
Oil prices rebound in Asian trade
US benchmark West Texas Intermediate (WTI) for July delivery gained 32 cents to USD 58.35 while Brent crude for July gained 11 cents to USD 63.83 in late-morning trade. WTI fell USD 1.69 and Brent dipped USD 1.80 yesterday, as markets in the United States and much of Europe reopened after a public holiday on Monday.
Like this story, share it with millions of investors on M3
Oil prices rebound in Asian trade
US benchmark West Texas Intermediate (WTI) for July delivery gained 32 cents to USD 58.35 while Brent crude for July gained 11 cents to USD 63.83 in late-morning trade. WTI fell USD 1.69 and Brent dipped USD 1.80 yesterday, as markets in the United States and much of Europe reopened after a public holiday on Monday.
Post your opinion here
 
Oil prices rose in Asia on Wednesday on bargain-hunting following sharp falls in the previous session triggered by a strong US dollar and continued concern over the global supply glut, analysts said.
US benchmark West Texas Intermediate (WTI) for July delivery gained 32 cents to USD 58.35 while Brent crude for July gained 11 cents to USD 63.83 in late-morning trade. WTI fell USD 1.69 and Brent dipped USD 1.80 yesterday, as markets in the United States and much of Europe reopened after a public holiday on Monday.
Oil prices have been under pressure on a resurgent dollar, which has strengthened following expectations that the US Federal Reserve will follow through on plans to raise record-low interest rates later this year. The stronger greenback makes crude more expensive for buyers using weaker currencies.
"As the prices for crude dropped quite sharply last night, the current rebound is due to bargain hunting as traders pounce at the low prices," Nicholas Teo, market analyst at CMC Markets in Singapore, told AFP.
Teo said dealers are also awaiting the latest official US stockpiles report to be released later Wednesday for fresh clues about demand and production levels in the world's top crude consumer.
Crude reserves likely fell by 1.5 million barrels in the week to May 22, according to a survey by Bloomberg News. Overall US stockpiles, which stand at 482.2 million barrels, are at the highest level since 1930, according to data compiled by the US Energy Information Administration.
Dealers have been hoping that a slowdown in US output, coupled with increased demand during the summer driving season, could whittle down the build up of global crude reserves which was a key reason for the collapse in prices of more than 50 per cent between June and January.
RELATED NEWS
Modi premium not waning; mkt may have turned: Samir Arora
news videos
Explore Moneycontrol

