Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Obama backs efforts to end 'conversion therapy'
President Obama is lending support to efforts to end "conversion therapy" that seeks to change the sexual orientation of gays, lesbians, and transgender therapy. "Tonight, somewhere in America, a young person,
Post to Facebook
Obama backs efforts to end 'conversion therapy' President Obama is lending support to efforts to end "conversion therapy" that seeks to change the sexual orientation of gays, lesbians, and transgender therapy. "Tonight, somewhere in America, a young person, Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1yfIzjp
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
3
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Obama backs efforts to end 'conversion therapy'
President Obama
President Obama is lending support to efforts to end "conversion therapy" that seeks to change the sexual orientation of gay, lesbian, and transgender youth.
Responding to a petition on the White House website calling for a ban on conversion therapy, Obama writes that "tonight, somewhere in America, a young person, let's say a young man, will struggle to fall to sleep, wrestling alone with a secret he's held as long as he can remember. Soon, perhaps, he will decide it's time to let that secret out."
Obama adds: "What happens next depends on him, his family, as well as his friends and his teachers and his community. But it also depends on us -- on the kind of society we engender, the kind of future we build."
The White House petition , which has more than 120,000 signatures, calls for enactment of "Leelah's Law to Ban All LGBTQ+ Conversion Therapy."
The proposed law is named for Leelah Alcorn a 17-year-old transgender youth who committed suicide in December after saying her parents had forced her to attend conversion therapy.
The petition says conversion therapies "have been documented to cause great harms and in this case, Leelah's death. Therapists that engage in the attempt to brainwash or reverse any child's gender identity or sexual orientation are seriously unethical and legislation is needed to end such practices."
Also responding to the petition, White House senior adviser Valerie Jarrett writes that "we share your concern about its potentially devastating effects on the lives of transgender as well as gay, lesbian, bisexual, and queer youth."
The "overwhelming scientific evidence demonstrates that conversion therapy, especially when it is practiced on young people, is neither medically nor ethically appropriate and can cause substantial harm," Jarrett writes. "As part of our dedication to protecting America's youth, this Administration supports efforts to ban the use of conversion therapy for minors."
"The White House is not explicitly calling for congressional legislation to ban the therapies nationwide. But Jarrett's statement highlighted states that have outlawed the practice and expressed hope that there will be broader action.
"The White House says lawmakers in 18 states have introduced legislation similar to measures already in place in California, New Jersey and Washington, D.C., banning licensed professionals from using conversion therapy on minors.
"The American Psychiatric Association has long opposed conversion therapy, which the organization says is based on the assumption that homosexuality is a mental disorder."
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1yfIzjp
USA NOW
Apr 09, 2015

