2h
Kris Bryant and Bryce Harper traded solo blasts, but Addison Russell was the young star coming of age with his game-winning double in the bottom of the ninth.
3 Related
Philadelphia Phillies general manager Ruben Amaro says that fans who don't understand the team's methodical approach to turning the franchise around "don't understand the game."
Play2:35
Cubs rookie Kris Bryant hit a game-tying home run in the bottom of the eighth inning of his team's eventual 3-2 win over the Washington Nationals on Tuesday. The HR would have gone 463 feet.
Dilip Vishwanat/Getty Images
37mMark Saxon
Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later tonight or Wednesday morning.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images
10h
Cincinnati Reds starter Johnny Cueto will miss at least one more start after an MRI found inflammation in his pitching elbow.
Play0:59
4h
ST. LOUIS --  The Cardinals anticipate first baseman Matt Adams will be placed on the 15-day disabled list after straining his right quadriceps while running out a double in the fifth inning.
Tom Szczerbowski/Getty Images
9h
Blue Jays slugger Jose Bautista is back in the starting lineup for Tuesday's game against the White Sox and says his sore right shoulder is pain free after a cortisone shot.
AP Photo/John Bazemore
9h
A week after firing Mike Redmond and replacing him with Dan Jennings, the Marlins reassigned third base coach Brett Butler on Tuesday and replaced him with assistant hitting coach Lenny Harris.
Play0:43
2hDavid Schoenfield
Josh Donaldson became the first player to score five runs in a game in 2015 -- while hitting his sixth career walk-off.
Play1:41
1h
Prince Fielder is raking as the regular DH for the Texas Rangers, and that's a beautiful thing.
2 Related
26m
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans the way Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
1 Related
Bryce Harper's fast start to the season has shown what he truly could be capable of doing over the long haul.
Play0:37
1h
Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw was his dominant self in an 8-0 victory over the Braves, allowing four hits and striking out 10 in seven shutout innings.
3 Related
AP Photo/Kathy Willens
5hAndrew Marchand
Five signs of hope for the New York Yankees as they pass the Memorial Day mark in contention in the American League East.
Play0:21
4hDavid Schoenfield
The first returns are in on the All-Star voting and the Kansas City Royals have leaders at five positions.
Play3:15
12hStephania Bell
Stephania Bell checks in with her insight on the injuries to David Wright and Victor Martinez -- including when each of them may return to action.
Play3:40
13h
A little pine tar here. Some rosin and sunscreen there. Baseball Tonight's Dallas Braden and Alex Cora explain how to cheat in baseball.
2 Related
18hDavid Schoenfield
Jeremy Guthrie of the Kansas City Royals put up this pitching line on Monday against the Yankees: 1 IP, 9 H, 11 R, 11 ER, 3 BB, 1 SO, 4 HR.
Play1:06
5d
Jim Bowden lays out the 20 players most likely to be traded by July 31, rating each one on their chances of being dealt and looking at where they might end up.
1 Related
Cubs walk off against Nationals
Baseball Tonight Spotlight: Addison Russell knocks in the winning run in the bottom of the ninth in the Cubs' 3-2 win over the Nationals.
CHICAGO -- The moment Kris Bryant made contact, just about everyone in the Cubs' dugout rose to take a look.
It was hard to tell if the ball struck the top of the new videoboard in left or went over it. Either way, Bryant had the most impressive hit of the night.
The winning swing went to Addison Russell .
The rookie infielder hit a game-ending RBI double in the ninth inning, and the Chicago Cubs beat the surging Washington Nationals 3-2 on Tuesday night.
Russell's hit made a winner of Hector Rondon (3-0), who worked a scoreless ninth. It also gave Chicago a major league-leading 13 one-run victories and sent the Nationals to their second loss in 10 games.
Bryant's towering drive in the eighth tied it at 2 and helped set the stage for the big finish.
"I've hit some good home runs in my short time here on this Earth," Bryant said. "That was a good one for me, and there was a little wind blowing out, too."
Chris Coghlan started the winning rally with a one-out single against Matt Grace (2-1). The Cubs then caught a huge break when shortstop Ian Desmond threw wide to first while trying to turn a potential double play on pinch-hitter Jonathan Herrera 's grounder to second.
That extended the inning, and Russell lined a 1-0 pitch beyond center fielder Denard Span 's reach for his third hit of the game.
"It wasn't a good pitch in that count," Grace said. "It was up in the zone and that's pretty much the gist of it."
Chicago's Kyle Hendricks and Washington's Jordan Zimmermann each turned in dominant starts, allowing one run over seven innings.
Dexter Fowler put the Cubs in front with a leadoff homer in the first. It stayed that way until Bryce Harper led off the seventh with his National League-leading 17th homer, driving the ball to about the third row in left field.
The Nationals went ahead when Span connected against Pedro Strop with two out in the eighth, belting a drive to right for his second homer in as many games. But Bryant went deep in the bottom half.
Bryant's seventh homer came on a full-count pitch from Aaron Barrett after he fell behind 0-2 in the count. The rookie also flied out twice to the warning track in center.
"Everyone just stood up to see how far it would go," Russell said. "When he hits balls, they go far. Us as a team, we're used to seeing it. But the whole world's seeing it. It's just a cool feeling. The world gets to see what he has to offer."
The long balls overshadowed strong starts by Hendricks and Zimmermann.
Hendricks, coming off his first career shutout last week at San Diego, gave up four hits. Zimmermann allowed six hits, but the NL East-leading Nationals lost for just the sixth time in 26 games.
TRAINER'S ROOM:
Nationals: RF Jayson Werth (bruised left wrist) rejoined the team, but manager Matt Williams is not sure when he will be activated from the disabled list. Werth, batting .208, can't swing. ... RHP Doug Fister (right forearm tightness) is scheduled to begin throwing on Wednesday. ... INF Anthony Rendon (oblique, left knee) played three innings in a simulated game and is scheduled for five more on Wednesday. He is expected to take Thursday off and being a minor league rehabilitation assignment on Friday.
Cubs: Manager Joe Maddon said OF Chris Denorfia (strained left hamstring) is "not too far off," but would not put a timetable on his return. The same goes for RHP Neil Ramirez (right shoulder inflammation) and infielders Tommy La Stella (right rib cage inflammation) and Mike Olt (hairline fracture in right wrist).
UP NEXT
Free-agent prizes will be on the mound when Cubs LHP Jon Lester (4-2, 3.56 ERA) and Nationals RHP Max Scherzer (5-3, 1.67 ERA) start the finale of the three-game set. Lester is 4-0 in five starts in May after going 0-2 in April. Scherzer, the 2013 AL Cy Young Award winner, has won four straight starts.
0 Shares


4hJesse Rogers
The rapidly improving Addison Russell had the best game of his young career Tuesday, capping off the Chicago Cubs' win with his first walk-off hit.
Play0:05
5hJesse Rogers
Cubs rookie Kris Bryant hit a game-tying home run in the bottom of the eighth inning of his team's eventual 3-2 win over the Washington Nationals on Tuesday. The HR would have gone 463 feet.
Play1:34
6h
CHICAGO --  Addison Russell hit a game-ending RBI double in the ninth inning, and the Chicago Cubs beat the surging Washington Nationals 3-2 on Tuesday night.
Play2:35
2hJesse Rogers
The Chicago Cubs beat the Washington Nationals 3-2 on Tuesday night. Here's a quick look at the game.
7hJesse Rogers
CHICAGO -- Chicago Cubs prospect Javier Baez won't be moving to the outfield anytime soon but the Cubs aren't ruling it out either."It wouldn't be surprising if we did see him out there," Vice-President of Scouting and Development Jason McLeod said Tuesday afternoon.
Taking a look at the reasons behind Harper's 2015 rise
11h
Eric Karabell and Derek Carty will get you ready for daily fantasy baseball by offering advice and answering your questions, beginning at 6:15 p.m. ET.
Play2:34
18hJesse Rogers
Kris Bryant and Bryce Harper, two of baseball's most exciting young stars, played with and against each other while growing up.
Addison Russell comes of age in Cubs win
4h
CHICAGO -- Chicago Cubs manager Joe Maddon wants to remind everyone of one thing when it comes to rookie Addison Russell : He’s 21.
It hasn’t stopped Russell from bursting onto the scene. Yes, sluggers Kris Bryant and Bryce Harper both went deep in the Cubs' 3-2 win over the Washington Nationals on Tuesday night, but it was Russell who stole the show. He had three hits, including a walk-off double.
Addison Russell's walk-off double Tuesday was the first of the 21-year-old rookie's brief major league career. 
Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images
“I had a little feeling,” Russell after the game. “A little voice in the back of my head saying tonight is going to be a big ballgame.”
It wasn't just his performance with the bat that impressed. Russell played a flawless second base which included six assists, as he started two double plays behind starter Kyle Hendricks . He saved his best for a ground ball up the middle off the bat of Nationals first baseman Ryan Zimmerman . Russell dove behind second base, got to his feet and easily threw Zimmerman out. He calls the dive and hop back up to throw his “signature move.”
“God there’s no chance I would be doing that (at 21),” Hendricks said. “It’s fun to watch. He’s going to be really good for a long time.”
That’s the prevailing thought on Russell, who’s getting a head start on his career. No one thought for a moment he would be in the majors this quickly after he labored through an injury plagued 2014 season. But after Javier Baez was sent to Triple-A at the end of spring training, infielder Tommy La Stella went down with an injury and Arismendy Alcantara struggled, the door was opened for Russell. And he’s improving every day.
“We’re going to get better as we gain more experience,” Maddon said of his young squad. “If you put your scout’s hat on and look at these guys a year and a half, two years at the most, it’s a dramatic difference. It’s the difference between being a sophomore and senior in high school. It’s the same thing.”
That’s especially appropriate for Russell, as he’s not far removed from being in high school -- though he seems to have a maturity of a player much older. With the winning run on second and two outs in the bottom of the ninth he slowed the game down against reliever Matt Grace .
“Stay calm, see the pitch you want, don’t try to do too much,” Russell recalled.
That's a veteran mentality. Not every moment has been smooth for Russell since debuting last month. He’s struck out 44 times already, and his transition to second base has been a work in progress. But he shows off his talent in some capacity nearly every day, making the trade last season of pitchers Jeff Samardzija and Jason Hammel for him look better and better. But don’t forget his age, Maddon implores.
“He just turned 21,” the manager stated. “Most of the time those guys are in Double-A, or sometimes A ball. And they’re making all these mistakes in like Davenport (Iowa). That’s where you make those mistakes, but he’s making them here.
“A lot of guys that age and experience level, they’re not here. They’re in some obscure place without the spotlight on them learning their craft. He’s having to do it on the fly here. He’s doing a great job.
“His mental toughness is really incredible to me. How he’s fought through all these difficult moments for himself.”
Bryant calls Russell a “special player”. Bryant should know, as he is getting better with each day as well. Bryant also receives most of the focus, but that might change soon.
Russell credits the work he puts in for his performance. Wednesday is supposed to be an early defensive work day but it was suggested to Russell he take it off after such a great night which included his first walk-off hit.
“No, not at all,” Russell said shaking his head. “I have to keep on that path. With me it’s my early work. I take my early work serious.”
His game is pretty serious as well.
0 Shares

