2h
Kris Bryant and Bryce Harper traded solo blasts, but Addison Russell was the young star coming of age with his game-winning double in the bottom of the ninth.
3 Related
Philadelphia Phillies general manager Ruben Amaro says that fans who don't understand the team's methodical approach to turning the franchise around "don't understand the game."
Play2:35
Cubs rookie Kris Bryant hit a game-tying home run in the bottom of the eighth inning of his team's eventual 3-2 win over the Washington Nationals on Tuesday. The HR would have gone 463 feet.
Dilip Vishwanat/Getty Images
37mMark Saxon
Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later tonight or Wednesday morning.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images
10h
Cincinnati Reds starter Johnny Cueto will miss at least one more start after an MRI found inflammation in his pitching elbow.
Play0:59
4h
ST. LOUIS --  The Cardinals anticipate first baseman Matt Adams will be placed on the 15-day disabled list after straining his right quadriceps while running out a double in the fifth inning.
Tom Szczerbowski/Getty Images
9h
Blue Jays slugger Jose Bautista is back in the starting lineup for Tuesday's game against the White Sox and says his sore right shoulder is pain free after a cortisone shot.
AP Photo/John Bazemore
9h
A week after firing Mike Redmond and replacing him with Dan Jennings, the Marlins reassigned third base coach Brett Butler on Tuesday and replaced him with assistant hitting coach Lenny Harris.
Play0:43
2hDavid Schoenfield
Josh Donaldson became the first player to score five runs in a game in 2015 -- while hitting his sixth career walk-off.
Play1:41
1h
Prince Fielder is raking as the regular DH for the Texas Rangers, and that's a beautiful thing.
2 Related
26m
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans the way Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
1 Related
Bryce Harper's fast start to the season has shown what he truly could be capable of doing over the long haul.
Play0:37
1h
Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw was his dominant self in an 8-0 victory over the Braves, allowing four hits and striking out 10 in seven shutout innings.
3 Related
AP Photo/Kathy Willens
5hAndrew Marchand
Five signs of hope for the New York Yankees as they pass the Memorial Day mark in contention in the American League East.
Play0:21
4hDavid Schoenfield
The first returns are in on the All-Star voting and the Kansas City Royals have leaders at five positions.
Play3:15
12hStephania Bell
Stephania Bell checks in with her insight on the injuries to David Wright and Victor Martinez -- including when each of them may return to action.
Play3:40
13h
A little pine tar here. Some rosin and sunscreen there. Baseball Tonight's Dallas Braden and Alex Cora explain how to cheat in baseball.
2 Related
18hDavid Schoenfield
Jeremy Guthrie of the Kansas City Royals put up this pitching line on Monday against the Yankees: 1 IP, 9 H, 11 R, 11 ER, 3 BB, 1 SO, 4 HR.
Play1:06
5d
Jim Bowden lays out the 20 players most likely to be traded by July 31, rating each one on their chances of being dealt and looking at where they might end up.
1 Related
Cubs walk off against Nationals
Baseball Tonight Spotlight: Addison Russell knocks in the winning run in the bottom of the ninth in the Cubs' 3-2 win over the Nationals.
CHICAGO -- The moment Kris Bryant made contact, just about everyone in the Cubs' dugout rose to take a look.
It was hard to tell if the ball struck the top of the new videoboard in left or went over it. Either way, Bryant had the most impressive hit of the night.
The winning swing went to Addison Russell .
The rookie infielder hit a game-ending RBI double in the ninth inning, and the Chicago Cubs beat the surging Washington Nationals 3-2 on Tuesday night.
Russell's hit made a winner of Hector Rondon (3-0), who worked a scoreless ninth. It also gave Chicago a major league-leading 13 one-run victories and sent the Nationals to their second loss in 10 games.
Bryant's towering drive in the eighth tied it at 2 and helped set the stage for the big finish.
"I've hit some good home runs in my short time here on this Earth," Bryant said. "That was a good one for me, and there was a little wind blowing out, too."
Chris Coghlan started the winning rally with a one-out single against Matt Grace (2-1). The Cubs then caught a huge break when shortstop Ian Desmond threw wide to first while trying to turn a potential double play on pinch-hitter Jonathan Herrera 's grounder to second.
That extended the inning, and Russell lined a 1-0 pitch beyond center fielder Denard Span 's reach for his third hit of the game.
"It wasn't a good pitch in that count," Grace said. "It was up in the zone and that's pretty much the gist of it."
Chicago's Kyle Hendricks and Washington's Jordan Zimmermann each turned in dominant starts, allowing one run over seven innings.
Dexter Fowler put the Cubs in front with a leadoff homer in the first. It stayed that way until Bryce Harper led off the seventh with his National League-leading 17th homer, driving the ball to about the third row in left field.
The Nationals went ahead when Span connected against Pedro Strop with two out in the eighth, belting a drive to right for his second homer in as many games. But Bryant went deep in the bottom half.
Bryant's seventh homer came on a full-count pitch from Aaron Barrett after he fell behind 0-2 in the count. The rookie also flied out twice to the warning track in center.
"Everyone just stood up to see how far it would go," Russell said. "When he hits balls, they go far. Us as a team, we're used to seeing it. But the whole world's seeing it. It's just a cool feeling. The world gets to see what he has to offer."
The long balls overshadowed strong starts by Hendricks and Zimmermann.
Hendricks, coming off his first career shutout last week at San Diego, gave up four hits. Zimmermann allowed six hits, but the NL East-leading Nationals lost for just the sixth time in 26 games.
TRAINER'S ROOM:
Nationals: RF Jayson Werth (bruised left wrist) rejoined the team, but manager Matt Williams is not sure when he will be activated from the disabled list. Werth, batting .208, can't swing. ... RHP Doug Fister (right forearm tightness) is scheduled to begin throwing on Wednesday. ... INF Anthony Rendon (oblique, left knee) played three innings in a simulated game and is scheduled for five more on Wednesday. He is expected to take Thursday off and being a minor league rehabilitation assignment on Friday.
Cubs: Manager Joe Maddon said OF Chris Denorfia (strained left hamstring) is "not too far off," but would not put a timetable on his return. The same goes for RHP Neil Ramirez (right shoulder inflammation) and infielders Tommy La Stella (right rib cage inflammation) and Mike Olt (hairline fracture in right wrist).
UP NEXT
Free-agent prizes will be on the mound when Cubs LHP Jon Lester (4-2, 3.56 ERA) and Nationals RHP Max Scherzer (5-3, 1.67 ERA) start the finale of the three-game set. Lester is 4-0 in five starts in May after going 0-2 in April. Scherzer, the 2013 AL Cy Young Award winner, has won four straight starts.
0 Shares


Russell's walk-off single lifts Cubs past Nationals
Russell's walk-off single lifts Cubs past Nationals
CHICAGO -- The Chicago Cubs keep demonstrating their flair for the dramatic.
Second baseman Addison Russell delivered a walk-off RBI double to score Jonathan Herrera from second in the ninth inning, giving Chicago a 3-2 victory over the Washington Nationals on Tuesday.
"You've got to believe you can do it," Cubs manager Joe Maddon said. "If something happens during the course of the game, you've got to know you can overcome it."
The Cubs battled back from a late 2-1 deficit on the way to their major-league-leading fifth walk-off win and 13th by a single run this season.
Russell's two-out hit to deep center snapped a 2-2 tie and ended a two-game Cubs losing skid.
"Addison being able to play on both sides of the ball as well as he did, I know he's going to leave here very happy tonight," Maddon said. "This guy just turned 21. He's learning his craft on the fly here, and he's done a great job."
Herrera reached on a pinch-hit fielder's choice with one out and advanced to scoring position on Nationals shortstop Ian Desmond's throwing error.
"Desi (was) trying to make a play out of something that he can't make a play out of," Nationals manager Matt Williams said. "The ball's not hit hard enough to turn two there. He tried to transfer it and throw it quickly, and he threw it wide."
Cubs right-hander Hector Rondon (3-0) worked a scoreless ninth for the victory.
Nationals left-hander Matt Grace (2-1) got two outs in the ninth inning but took the loss thank to Chicago's unearned run.
Washington center fielder Denard Span collected his second home run in two days to snap a tie with two outs in the eighth inning. The solo shot to right off Chicago right-handed reliever Pedro Strop temporarily gave the Nationals a 2-1 lead.
Cubs third baseman Kris Bryant matched Span with his seventh homer of the season in the bottom of the eighth. The solo shot on a 3-2 pitch from Nationals right-handed reliever Aaron Barrett hit off the new left field video board.
Chicago right-hander Kyle Hendricks emerged with a no-decision for the seventh time in nine starts this season and the fourth in his past five outings. He threw seven innings of one-run ball.
"(Hendricks) stayed away, he stayed away with that sinker," Desmond said. "It took a little bit for us to get him on the plate. We had the lead on him, but couldn't finish it off."
Nationals right-hander Jordan Zimmermann also gave up one run in seven innings.
"After the first couple of innings, I started getting the feel," Zimmermann said. "The slider was good, and I was able to break the curveball out late and get a few strikeouts when I needed to. But it's a good lineup, and I had to battle for sure."
Both teams had to contend with a stiff winds that figured in at least two home runs to left.
Nationals right fielder Bryce Harper tied the game at 1-1 in the seventh with his leadoff home run to left. Harper's shot was his 17th of the season and 12th in May.
Cubs center fielder Dexter Fowler led off the first with a solo home run to right. Fowler launched a 2-2 pitch from Zimmermann for his fifth homer of the season. It was his 11th career leadoff shot and second this year.
Desmond doubled to right-center with two outs in the sixth to extend his hitting streak to 11 games.
NOTES: Tuesday's game was the second of seven between the Cubs and Nationals in 11 days. The teams close the current series on Wednesday in Chicago and meet in Washington for four games starting June 4. ... Washington moved to the top of National League offensive leaderboards through Monday in runs (214), RBIs (208) and runs per game (4.76). ... Washington RHP Doug Fister, on the 15-day disabled list with right forearm tightness, begins a throwing program Wednesday. ... The Nationals send RHP Max Scherzer (5-3, 1.67 ERA) against Cubs LHP Jon Lester (4-2, 3.50 ERA) in Wednesday's series finale. ... Cubs RF Jorge Soler entered Tuesday leading major league rookies with 48 hits, but he went 0-for-4. ... Cubs 1B Anthony Rizzo has reached base 89 times this season. Washington RF Bryce Harper (92) leads the majors in that category.
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

