Image 1of/3
gallery_thumbnails_show|article-gallery-6184402|article-gallery-6184402|0
gallery_overlay_open|article-gallery-6184402|article-gallery-6184402|0
gallery_overlay_open_thumbs|article-gallery-6184402|article-gallery-6184402|0
Image 1 of 3
Wei Lee works at his station at the Asian Law Caucus, Tuesday, April 7, 2015, in San Francisco, Calif. Lee, age 26, is a development assistant with the group and an immigrant rights advocate. He moved from Jacarei, Brazil to S.F. in 2005 and recently graduated from UC Berkeley with a BA in psychology. Lee applied for a U Visa after being assaulted in 2013 while walking to his home in the Mission neighborhood.
Photo: Santiago Mejia / The Chronicle
Wei Lee works at his station at the Asian Law Caucus, Tuesday,...
Image 2 of 3
The offices at the Asian Law Caucus are covered with pro-immigration signs, Tuesday, April 7, 2015, in San Francisco, Calif.
Photo: Santiago Mejia / The Chronicle
The offices at the Asian Law Caucus are covered with...
Image 3 of 3
Wei Lee works at his station at the Asian Law Caucus, Tuesday, April 7, 2015, in San Francisco, Calif. Lee, age 26, is a development assistant with the group and an immigrant rights advocate. He moved from Jacarei, Brazil to S.F. in 2005 and recently graduated from UC Berkeley with a BA in psychology. Lee applied for a U Visa after being assaulted in 2013 while walking to his home in the Mission neighborhood.
Photo: Santiago Mejia, The Chronicle
Wei Lee works at his station at the Asian Law Caucus, Tuesday,...
California lawmakers propose expanding benefits to some immigrants
1 / 3
gallery_thumbs_close|article-gallery-6184402|article-gallery-6184402|0
gallery_overlay_close|article-gallery-6184402|article-gallery-6184402|0
SACRAMENTO — California legislative leaders took a bold step Tuesday toward protecting immigrants living in the country without documentation by backing legislation to offer Medi-Cal and other public services to a population they said they want to help move out of the shadows.
The leaders of the California Senate and Assembly joined lawmakers and advocates in announcing the “Immigrants Shape California” package of bills at a news conference in Sacramento, saying the federal government’s inaction on immigration reform prompted them to act.
“California has grown into the greatest state in the nation and the world’s seventh largest economy on the backs of settlers from all over this country and immigrants from many others,” said state Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de León , D-Los Angeles. “Our infrastructure, our railroads, our roads and bridges were built by immigrants. … Immigrants shape California.”
SB4 by state Sen. Ricardo Lara , D-Bell Gardens (Los Angeles County), would extend Medi-Cal to low-income immigrants living in the country without documentation. In addition, such immigrants would be able to buy health insurance from the Covered California exchange at unsubsidized rates available to others in the state, if a waiver is granted by the federal government. SB4 directs the Health and Human Services Agency to seek a waiver from the federal government.
Lara said 30 percent of undocumented immigrants can afford Covered California insurance without subsidies.
Seeking federal waiver
Last year, a similar bill by Lara to expand Medi-Cal stalled due to the $1.3 billion a year cost. Lara said he’s been working with officials in Washington, D.C., on a federal waiver to expand Medi-Cal coverage to immigrants, and on ways to limit the cost of the expansion.
“The numbers are still being worked out, but we’ve brought it down from what we once thought would be $1 billion to close to $400-to-$800 million a year,” Lara said. “It looks like something that’s do-able to cover folks.”
The expansion of health benefits has long been sought by immigrant rights groups that say basic medical care should be a human right, regardless of residency status or income.
That’s something Kiki Vo supports. Vo, a 23-year-old UC Berkeley graduate with temporary authorization to stay in the country through the federal deferred action program, said she struggles to pay for her $150-a-month epilepsy medicines with her part-time job in Berkeley. Her temporary legal status means she doesn’t qualify for subsidized health care. She continues to look for full-time work with health benefits while considering graduate school.
“I haven’t had the blood tests I’m supposed to have or any regular checkups,” said Vo, whose family moved to the United States from Vietnam when she was 9 so she and her sisters — badly burned in a house fire that had killed their mother — could get treatment for their burns.
Later, having outstayed their visas and living in Sacramento, her father became ill but was reluctant to seek medical care out of fear of being deported. He was eventually diagnosed with late-stage lung cancer and died shortly after. Vo was 18.
“I always think about the health care he could have received that would have helped him live longer,” Vo said. “These bills are so important for a lot of families.”
SB10, also by Lara, would create the California Office of New Americans within the governor’s office to work on coordinating immigration services.
Role for law enforcement
SB674, by de León and Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins , D-San Diego, would require law-enforcement agencies across the state to comply with the federal Victims of Crime visa, called a U-visa, which grants temporary residency to victims of certain crimes and those who have been helpful to a criminal investigation. De León said some law-enforcement agencies have appeared unwilling to comply with the U-visa process. He specifically named Kern County as one of them.
“It seems certain law-enforcement agencies throughout the state of California are taking into their own hands the subjectiveness of whether one belongs in this country or not, irrespective of the crime committed or perpetuated against the victim themselves or they themselves have become a witness in a crime,” de León said. “This measure makes it clear that all law enforcement have to mandatorily comply.”
Wei Lee , 26, said many of the bills introduced touch on a multitude of issues facing people living in the country without documentation. Lee said that after he was the victim of an assault in 2013, he was at first too scared to seek medical care. After the assault, Lee said he was granted a U-visa, but is waiting for it to be issued.
“It’s a long wait,” said Lee, who works at the Asian Law Caucus in San Francisco. “It’s an overwhelming process, especially after a traumatic event.”
De León said the bill package unveiled Tuesday adds to laws California has already passed that make the state a leader on immigrant rights.
In January, California began issuing driver’s licenses to people regardless of immigration status, with more than 500,000 immigrants applying in the first three months. That was double the number of applications the Department of Motor Vehicles projected during the first three months of the new law.
California also allows immigrants in the state without proper documentation to apply for financial aid to attend college.
“We can do more, and we will do more,” de León said.
De León said the federal government’s inaction on immigration reform has put the onus on California. He said he hopes to gain Republican support in the Legislature as the immigrant rights bills move forward, although the bills can pass without it in the Democratic-controlled Legislature.
“The federal government’s failure to act has unfairly shifted the burden to the states and California is taking the brunt of it,” said state Senate Republican Leader Bob Huff of Diamond Bar (Los Angeles County). “We understand the burdens facing immigrants who want to go to work and raise their families in safe neighborhoods, and the rationale behind these bills is admirable. But without money from Congress and President Obama, it will be very difficult and costly for California taxpayers to fund all of these bill proposals.”
Melody Gutierrez is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail mgutierrez@sfchronicle.com . Twitter: @MelodyGutierrez
Videos
1

