By Andrew Adams
OGDEN — The dress was supposed to be “business casual” and the meeting was expected to be with a “senior White House official,” so Marvin “Lance” Futch wore an unassuming white polo.
He showed up to Hill Air Force Base Friday and soon learned he was part of a very exclusive roundtable discussion with President Barack Obama. Days later, his attire has gone viral online.
“I didn’t think that was going to make it as viral as it did, but I truly think that white polo — I’m going to have to frame it or something,” Futch said Wednesday. “It’s becoming a national icon at this point.”
A Reddit discussion had nearly 2,500 comments. The poster suggested his “friend,” Marvin, was “accidentally” sent to the round table discussion.
It turns out the attire was more accidental than his selection to be at the event, but Futch — who goes by “Lance” — said he didn’t know for sure he’d be meeting with the president until he saw the name plate on the table.
Futch, a computer-aided design team leader for Vivint Solar, said a White House official had requested a representative with military experience to talk about the company’s involvement in the Department of Energy’s Solar Ready Vets program .
“The original thought was they wanted a representative from Vivint as just to be part of a press release,” Futch explained. “There was a mention of an interview with a ‘senior White House official.’ ”
Futch — who serves in the National Guard — said he was chosen for his military and solar industry experience.
“We were informed by the White House that it was going to be kind of a more informal event and I was even asked to do ‘business casual,’ ” Futch said. “I felt a little under-dressed at the moment. Graciously, President Obama never mentioned it. I hope I didn’t offend him in any way.
“I assure you if I would have known it was the president, I would have either been in military blues, suit and tie, something else,” he continued.
Futch said he didn’t mind the attention his attire was getting.
“In my opinion, anything that can get the message out there of what we’re doing here is definitely worth a couple minutes of laughing that I was wearing a white polo in front of the president,” Futch said.
Jazz rally for 103-91 win over Kings, Favors scores 18
Posted  29 minutes ago
Posted  39 minutes ago
Posted  58 minutes ago
Posted Apr 8th - 9:41pm
Posted Apr 8th - 9:21pm
Posted Apr 8th - 7:39pm
KSL's Children's Television Programming Reports, as well as its FCC public inspection file, are available for viewing during regular office hours at the KSL Broadcast House or online .
The station representative who can assist a person with disabilities with issues related to the content of the public files is Mike Dowdle, available during regular office hours at closed_captioning@ksl.com and (801) 575-5555.

