Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Campaign watchdogs say new groups are gutting campaign rules.
Post to Facebook
Super PACs move to forefront of 2016 campaigns Campaign watchdogs say new groups are gutting campaign rules. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1ygTKsh
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Super PACs move to forefront of 2016 campaigns
Fredreka Schouten , USA TODAY 2:54 p.m. EDT April 9, 2015
Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., is set to make a campaign announcement Monday.
(Photo: J. Scott Applewhite, AP)
1 CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
WASHINGTON — Only two major presidential candidates have formally declared their bids, but the allies of at least 11 White House hopefuls have launched committees to raise unlimited money to back their campaigns — the latest sign that big money will swamp the 2016 presidential race like never before.
Operatives with ties to Sen. Marco Rubio became the latest to seize on new fundraising committees, announcing Thursday that an existing super PAC, Conservative Solutions, has been reorganized to collect unrestricted sums to advance the Florida Republican's White House ambitions. Rubio is expected to announce his candidacy Monday in Miami.
"This race will be won by the candidate with the best vision for where to take this nation and the resources to ensure that message is heard," Warren Tompkins, a longtime GOP strategist who is running the pro-Rubio super PAC, said in a statement.
"Marco has the vision — few have laid out in as much detail where they'd like to lead this country — and we're going to spend the next two years ensuring that the resources are there and used to effectively share that vision with voters," he added.
Under federal law, an individual cannot donate more than $2,700 to a presidential contender for the primary or general election. Donors, however, can give unlimited sums to super PACs, but the PACs are prohibited from coordinating their strategies with candidates. Super PACs did not exist before 2010, when a pair of federal court rulings, including the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision, paved the way for corporations and unions to spend unlimited amounts in candidate elections.
This year, super PACs and other fundraising vehicles with no contribution limits have shifted to the center of the crowded 2016 presidential race to the alarm of campaign-finance watchdogs. Former Florida governor Jeb Bush and Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal are among the potential Republican candidates backed by these committees.
Two super PACs are advancing Democrat Hillary Clinton's likely candidacy.
"It will be difficult to compete in a crowded field" without a super PAC, said Austin Barbour, a Mississippi-based operative and lobbyist who is overseeing a super PAC supporting former Texas governor Rick Perry. "Anybody who is thinking about running for president has got to have a group of donors out there aggressively backing them."
In a new twist, Sen. Ted Cruz's allies announced this week that they were establishing four separate committees to support the Texas Republican's White House bid. The system will give "major donors more control and influence" over how their money in spent to advance Cruz's candidacy, said Dathan Voelter, a Texas attorney who is treasurer of the pro-Cruz super PACs.
Cruz's aides have declined to comment about the four super PACs backing his White House bid.
Campaign-finance watchdogs groups say the proliferation of committees that can raise unlimited funds demonstrate that campaign rules have been bent beyond recognition.
"This is what happens when billionaires decide they want to play in the sandbox of American politics," said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, which has filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission over the fundraising practices of  four presidential hopefuls.
"We are being driven to a system of no contributions limits," he said, "and, therefore, a completely corrupt system that's going to finance the 2016 presidential election."
Barbour notes that super PAC donors are released publicly in Federal Election Commission filings.
"As long as you are disclosing who your donors are," he said, "people should not be worried about blowing up the campaign-finance system."
Super PACs, however, aren't the only vehicle active in 2016 contests. Several candidates weighing presidential campaigns also operate non-profit groups that can raise unlimited sums without disclosing the sources of their funding.
The same day that Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul announced his bid for the Republican presidential nomination this week, a non-profit group, the Foundation for a Secure and Prosperous America, announced it was spending $1 million to attack Paul as weak on Iran.
A spokeswoman for the foundation did not respond immediately to an interview request.
The IRS, which oversees non-profits, has not yet released long-anticipated rules regulating the political activities of non-profit groups. That makes it unlikely that any new disclosure requirements will be in place ahead of the 2016 election.
"Thinking the IRS will get a handle on this before the election is like thinking the Cubs will win the World Series," said Robert McGuire of the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks political money.  "It's not impossible, but it's highly unlikely."
Follow @fschouten on Twitter.
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1ygTKsh
USA NOW
Apr 09, 2015

