Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
SEC Meetings Day 1: Rushing field/court costs rise, satellite camps take center stage
Alabama Football at Auburn 2013 Iron Bowl
Fans rush the field and celebrate after the No. 1 Alabama at No. 4 Auburn Iron Bowl NCAA football game on Sunday, Nov. 1, 2013, at Jordan-Hare Stadium in Auburn, Ala. Auburn upset Alabama on a TD return after Alabama's final-second field goal attempt fell short. (Vasha Hunt/vhunt@al.com)
The price of rushing the field – and the court – in the Southeastern Conference is going up.
Wrapping up the first day of the league's spring meetings at the Sandestin Beach Hilton in Destin, Florida on Tuesday evening, outgoing commissioner Mike Slive said the SEC plans on "substantially increasing the fines" for the post-game celebrations. 
With the process of raising those costs already underway, the commissioner, who is  set to retire in July  after 13 years atop the league, said he anticipates the new legislation passing by Thursday.  
"It's an attempt to change behavior," Slive explained. "I think we have changed it considerably. But there still are times when it happens and I think our folks felt that the current fine structure is not sufficiently large enough to be a quality deterrent."
In 2004, the SEC instituted fines for excessive celebration when fans run onto the field or court after a victory. For the last decade, $5,000 covers a program's first offense, a second offense is $25,000, while third and subsequent offenses are $50,000 apiece. 
Slive did not want to go into detail about the steeper numbers that were placed on the table Tuesday, but says those figures will soon be finalized and released before the week's meetings conclude on Friday. 
The first day of the SEC's spring meetings also saw a piece of legislation pass.
Beginning this season, the conference will require an independent medical observer for all SEC and non-conference football games that its schools take part in.
The trained medical person will be hired by the SEC and will sit in the replay booth during games as an added precaution against head injuries. The individual in the booth will posses the power to stop play, if necessary, to remove an injured athlete from action. 
"Most of the time the sideline picks up those kinds of things," Slive said. "But just in case they don't, it gives us a safety net. We're doing everything we can to protect the health and safety of our students."
Added his predecessor and right-hand man of 13 years Greg Sankey: "We had a couple of schools that did this last year, and so we broadened that to make it consistent across the league."
The SEC also announced on Tuesday that it will propose national legislation against satellite camps. Its is a proposal that will mirror  the league's current rule , which bans its coaches from working as a "guest" at any camp that is more than 50 miles away from their institution.    
While the SEC hopes the NCAA will adopt its rule on satellite camps, the league is also prepared to change its conference-wide legislation if the "recruiting tours" – as Slive and Sankey refer to them – are not banned nationally.    
"We want it to be done nationally," Sankey explained. "But there was a lot of conversation among our football coaches that we don't want to be on the sidelines any longer, if there's not going to be a change more rapidly. That piece of the conversation's not concluded yet. The fundamental issue is, our coaches respect the recruiting calendar, we have agreed that we're not going to be engaged in off-campus recruiting during the summer, which is really what these recruiting tours are.
"... If that's the competitive landscape, they want to be fully engaged if the rule doesn't change nationally."
For the rule to pass nationally it would require a majority vote from the 10 conferences in the Football Bowl Subdivision. Power Five leagues – like the SEC, Atlantic Coast Conference, Pac-12, Big Ten and Big 12 – each have waited votes that count double.
The Collegiate Commissioners Association's proposed legislation for an early signing period in December was also a topic on conversation on Tuesday during the SEC meetings. 
"We are not in favor of it as proposed," Slive said.
Related Stories
Sports Opinion
Active Discussions
Most Read
About Us
© 2015 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Alabama Media Group
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

