Hamas militant group
Khalil Hamra / Associated Press
 
 
Amnesty International: Hamas tortured and killed Palestinians during the war against Israel in the Gaza Strip
The militant group Hamas tortured and killed Palestinians during the war against Israel in the Gaza Strip last year, Amnesty International said in a report released Wednesday.
Hamas, which controls Gaza, arrested and tortured dozens of Palestinians and executed at least 23, the human rights group reported.
"Amnesty should have investigated the war crimes against humanity committed by Israel instead of criticizing the victims," Bardawil said.
According to the Amnesty report, among the victims was Atta Najjar, formerly a police officer of the Palestinian Authority, who was serving a 15-year prison sentence after being arrested in 2009, two years after Hamas’ violent takeover of the Gaza strip, and convicted of collaborating with Israel. Najjar was taken from the prison and executed in August, a few days before a cease-fire took effect, Amnesty reported.
On the same date, six men were executed before a crowd of hundreds that included children. The report says Hamas had declared them collaborators who had been sentenced to death in "revolutionary courts" before they were dragged on the ground to be shot individually, and then sprayed with bullets.
AndrewWiggin
Luther accused Hamas forces of flouting fundamental rules of international humanitarian law.
“Torture and cruel treatment of detainees in an armed conflict is a war crime. Extrajudicial executions are also war crimes,” he said, and urged Palestinian authorities -- including Hamas -- to cooperate with international inquiries on the summer conflict, and investigate the cases documented in the report.
More than 2,100 Palestinians were killed during the fighting and it remains unclear how many were militants. The United Nations and human rights groups say most were civilians. Israel says hundreds were Hamas fighters. Almost all of the 72 killed on the Israeli side were soldiers.
In previous reports, Amnesty has accused Israel and Hamas of violating international law.
In March, the organization declared Hamas and other militant groups had shown “flagrant disregard for international humanitarian law” with indiscriminate rocket fire into Israel. Last year, the organization said Israeli forces had “brazenly flouted the laws of war” and shown “callous difference to the carnage” inflicted by the army’s attacks on civilian targets.
Sobelman is a special correspondent. Special correspondent Rushdi Abu Alouf in Gaza City contributed to this report. 
9:45 p.m.: This story has been updated with additional information about previous reports by Amnesty International.
This story was orginally published at 8:29 p.m.
Related Content
Comments

