United States media brands Cleveland Cavaliers’ Matthew Dellavedova a ‘dirty player’
Contributed by admin on May 26, 2015 at 9:22 pm
When the final horn sounded, James collapsed to the floor and had to be helped to his feet by his teammates. This postseason is showing why. With all that evidence, is Delly dirty?
But Cleveland has James, and even on a night when his shot wasn’t falling, he carried the Cavaliers, who can earn their first trip to the Finals since James took them there in 2007. To the surprise of no one, James is a big reason why. The Rockets went on to win and extend their series. He also won the Jason Collier Memorial Trophy in 2009 for his work in the community.
“Til I die I’ll hustle like Delly”. He’s not a dirty player, but his style can aggravate guys.
Dellavedova and Horford were fighting for rebounding position when Dellavedova stumbled over Atlanta forward DeMarre Carroll and fell into Horford’s right leg. Horford admitted as much himself. “If it was on purpose, we do not know”. Maybe it wasn’t on purpose. “But, you know, with just his track record, I just felt like it was”. Though, he could be a little more careful next time. He’s a hard-nosed player. I looked at that play countless times and clearly see the malice and intention. So there’s got to be a fine line between competing and being crazy. LeBron scoffed at all of that. “I think in the case of (Dellevedova), ever since you were a kid, the ball on the floor, the first man to the floor usually gets the ball”. He beats the odds and he comes to play as hard as he can every single night.
“If they’re worried about Delly, they’re worried about the wrong thing, ” James said. He’d be the player we’d all despise if he was wearing another uniform.
“Started out the game just out of character, out of rhythm”. How would that Cavs player (and Cavs fans) have responded?
I always thought he was the kind of player people love if he’s on their team and despise him if he’s an opponent. I think Al said, ‘Enough of this.’ And he did what he did. Or, who do you think should play that role? “So I protect the ball and kick it out to a teammate”. On the (Horford play), I’m boxing him out. “You can see from the baseline view that he’s pulling my arm”. “I mean, the tape’s there”.
Dellavedova: “I saw the ball”. A suspension would be devastating to the Hawks’ survival, which is already on life support. None of the stories have been detrimental to the Cavaliers, but the most recent game has him at the center of attention as the sports world tries to answer the question, “is Dellavedova a “dirty player?'””. If J.R. Smith starts diving into guys legs and injuring them at a clip of one a game, he’s a bad person. He works hard everyday. “He is a guy that will stick (in the NBA)”. Then he played the entire overtime without picking up that sixth foul. At that point, Horford had been the Hawks’ best player with 14 points. “But somebody’s got to do it one day”. A cold tub is our best friend now, ” Shumpert said. He preaches that on the court and preaches that in practice. He went through a pregame workout that lasted nearly an hour before he was again held out. The Cavaliers, despite holding a commanding 3-0 series lead, are still searching for a way to keep Teague from getting to the basket. Howard was assessed a Flagrant 1 and remained in the game.
James said Dellavedova is not trying to take out his rivals, but merely playing aggressive basketball for an injury-hit team that needs such effort.
The potentially decisive Game 4 goes down on Wednesday morning Australian time.
Mike Scott’s Misery and the 2015 NBA Playoffs They’re Related  Posted by Matt Zemek
Recent Posts
Copyright © 2015 Rapid News Network. All Rights Reserved.

