Personalize your weather by entering a location.
Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.
Embed
Tuesday, April 07, 2015 11:46AM
DETROIT --
A 115-year-old Detroit-area woman now listed as the world's oldest living person still makes plans for a fishing trip each year and credits God for her longevity.
Jeralean Talley of Inkster tops a list maintained by the Los Angeles-based Gerontology Research Group, which tracks the world's longest-living people. Gertrude Weaver, a 116-year-old Arkansas woman who was the oldest documented person for a few days, died on Monday.
Talley was born May 23, 1899. Asked for her key to longevity, the Detroit Free Press reports that she echoed previous answers on the topic.
"It's coming from above," she told the newspaper. "That's the best advice I can give you. It's not in my hands or your hands."
Michael Kinloch, 56, of Wayne County's Canton Township, is a GM engineer and longtime family friend of Talley's through their church. He said Talley's mental state is "is very sharp."
"It's unfortunate that other people passed away, but this has certainly elevated her. She's feeling no pain. She just can't get around like she used to," Kinloch said.
Talley's husband died in 1988 and five generations of her family have lived in the Detroit area. In 2013, her 114th birthday drew the attention of President Barack Obama, who said in a personal note that she's "part of an extraordinary generation."
Kinloch said he's looking forward to taking Talley, despite her advanced age, on their annual fishing trip.
"We go to a trout pond in Dexter," a community about 40 miles west of Detroit, Kinloch said. "She really likes that."
Just days after becoming the world's oldest documented person, 116-year-old Gertrude Weaver died Monday in Arkansas.
Weaver became the oldest person in the world after the death of a 117-year-old Japanese woman last week, according to records kept by the Los Angeles-based Gerontology Research Group. Weaver was born in 1898.
The Williams Funeral Home confirmed Weaver died just after 10 a.m. Monday at the Silver Oaks Health and Rehabilitation Center in Camden, about 100 miles southwest of Little Rock.
Camden Mayor Marie Trisollini chatted with Weaver last week when the supercentenarian's roommate celebrated her 100th birthday.
"She was a really sweet lady. She was relatively perky and coherent when I talked with her before the party," Trisollini said. "When you asked for advice on how to live a long life she would say, 'Use a lot of skin moisturizer, treat everyone nice, love your neighbor and eat your own cooking. Don't eat at fast food places.'"
The Research Group was able to verify Weaver's age using census records and a marriage certificate from 1915 that listed her age as 17. Other records pointed to a possible April birthday, but since those could not be confirmed, the group used the day Weaver had always celebrated her birthday - July 4.
Trisollini said the nursing home and several members of the community had been making plans for Weaver's 117th birthday party.
Weaver, who was born in southwest Arkansas to sharecropper parents, told nursing home staff last week that she wanted to invite President Barack Obama because she had voted for him twice.
Related Topics:
Personalize your weather by entering a location.
Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

