Curt Pendergast Photo/Nogales International
Former Gov. Raul Castro
Former Arizona Gov. Raul Castro bids a fond farewell to Nogales in a ceremony at Nogales City Hall on April 2, 2014. After 20 years as Nogales residents, Castro and his wife, Pat, moved to San Diego to live in an assisted living center.
Posted: Friday, April 10, 2015 3:27 pm
NOGALES — Raul Castro, the first Mexican-American to be elected governor of Arizona and a longtime resident of Nogales, died early Friday at a nursing home in San Diego. He was 98.
Castro's wife Pat told the Nogales International that the former governor had not been well in recent days.
"He was just waiting for it to happen," she said.
There were no immediate plans for funeral services, though an official ceremony is planned at the Arizona State Capitol on May 16.
The Castros left Nogales for San Diego in April 2014 after living 20 years in the city. During a ceremony in their honor at City Hall on April 2, 2014, Raul Castro recalled when he first came to Nogales and met community members from both sides of the border.
“It was then that I got enchanted with this community of Nogales, Ariz.,” Castro said.
He described the people of Ambos Nogales as “neighbors knowing each other and working together as neighbors rather than trying to destroy each other."
He also joked that he was too young to go to a retirement home, saying: "I'm only 97."
Pat Castro said Friday that the couple missed Nogales, but needed to move to San Diego to be closer to family.
"We wished we were back with our friends in Nogales," she said. "But things change."
Raul H. Castro was born June 12, 1916, in Cananea, Sonora, Mexico. His family moved to the United States when he was a boy, settling in Pirtleville, outside Douglas.
His father, who was a miner in Douglas, died when he was 12.
Castro was a multi-sport athlete while at Douglas High School and upon graduation in 1935, attended the then Arizona State Teachers College (now Northern Arizona University) in Flagstaff on a football scholarship graduating with a B.A. degree in teaching in 1939, the same year he became an American citizen.
He went on to earn a law degree from the University of Arizona and became Pima County attorney. In 1958 he joined the bench at Pima County Superior Court as a judge.
President Lyndon Johnson appointed Castro as U.S. ambassador to El Salvador in 1964. He later served as ambassador to Bolivia.
Castro's historical election as governor came in 1974. After two years in office, President Jimmy Carter appointed him U.S. ambassador to Argentina, where he served until 1980.
"Arizonans will never forget Governor Castro. He was an honorable public servant, a history-maker, a beloved family man and a strong friend and fighter for Arizona," Gov. Doug Ducey said in a statement.
Ducey said he ordered all flags in the state to be lowered to half-staff in honor of Castro.
Castro is survived by his wife Pat and two daughters, Mary Pat and Beth.
The Douglas Dispatch contributed to this story.
Posted in News on Friday, April 10, 2015 3:27 pm.
Similar Stories
Rules of Conduct
1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.
3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.
4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.
Welcome to the discussion.
Screen Name or Email
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
DO NOT POST:
* Obscene, explicit, or racist language.
* Personal attacks, insults or threats.
* Allegations of unsubstantiated criminal behavior.
* The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity.
* Comments unrelated to the story.
facebook
google
yahoo
aol

