Travel Deals
Last updated: Friday, April 10, 2015, 2:02 PM
Posted: Friday, April 10, 2015, 1:23 PM
HARRISBURG - A judge on Friday directed Attorney General Kathleen Kane to explain why she fired a top aide this week and how it did not violate his order protecting witnesses in the leak investigation against her.
Montgomery County Judge William R. Carpenter ordered the embattled attorney general to appear at an April 27 hearing to review the circumstances of her decision to oust James Barker, a chief deputy attorney general.
Sources have told The Inquirer that Barker, a longtime prosecutor, gave testimony to a grand jury last fall that appeared to contradict Kane's own claims that she didn't violate any laws when she authorized the release of confidential information to a Philadelphia newspaper.
Although the investigation has ended, Carpenter said this week his order barring harassment or retaliation against witnesses was still intact.
If the three-judge panel finds that Kane violated that order, Carpenter wrote, "an indirect criminal contempt hearing proceeding will follow forthwith."
Kane fired Barker on Wednesday. Her office initially said his ouster had "absolutely nothing" to do with his testimony but was part of a "restructuring" of the Attorney General's criminal division.
Later, she said Barker was fired because of alleged leaks out of a sitting grand jury. Kane did not specify what leak she was referencing.
"The decisions on restructuring and personnel are about change to an office that desperately needed new leadership that is accountable and responsible to Pennsylvanians," Kane's office said. "There is not the slightest grain of truth to the notion that there is anything retaliatory about these restructuring and personnel changes. Any innuendo to the contrary is entirely false."
Carpenter's grand jury found that Kane leaked confidential information to a Philadelphia newspaper last year in a bid to embarrass one of her critics. The panel recommended she be charged with perjury, obstruction, contempt of court, false swearing and official oppression.
The case, which was run by Montgomery County lawyer Thomas Carluccio, was turned over to Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman.
Ferman has said she is reviewing the case and will decide whether to formally charge Kane.
Get the latest Philly.com Daily Headlines newsletter delivered to your email. Sign up now!

