NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Inside
PARIS —  Here's guessing French Open security guards will not allow a selfie-seeker — or anyone else, for that matter — get anywhere near Roger Federer following his second-round match today.
Not after what transpired at the end of his victory in the first round. A teenager managed to make it out of the stands and stroll across the court to get to Federer, using a cellphone to try to snap photos.
It will be interesting to see whether there are any extra measures implemented at Court Suzanne Lenglen for Federer's match again Marcel Granollers, given the 17-time Grand Slam champion's criticism of security at Court Philippe Chatrier on Sunday.
"We need to make sure that it's safe out there and people don't just wander on the court like a free pass," Federer said.
Tournament director Gilbert Ysern's stance that day was there was no need to make any changes to protect players, but he did say: "For sure, we will reinforce the message again that clearly nobody is allowed to get on court in any case, at any time, for any reason."
The contest itself between the second-seeded Federer and the 57th-ranked Granollers hardly seems all that intriguing: Not only has Granollers never been past the fourth round in 30 previous major tournaments, but he's also 0-3 against Federer.
Here's a look at what else is happening at the French Open today:
MONFILS TAKES THE STAGE
Tennis' foremost showman, 13th-seeded Gael Monfils of France, plays on his country's biggest stage, Court Philippe Chatrier, against Diego Schwartzman of Argentina. Last year, Monfils wowed the crowd at Roland Garros the day before the tournament started by breakdancing on center court during an exhibition match. His running, leaping, diving shots are the stuff of legend around these parts — and there's plenty to see on YouTube.
CZECHS, MATES
Fourth-seeded Tomas Berdych, the Wimbledon runner-up in 2010, takes on his Davis Cup teammate for the Czech Republic, Radek Stepanek, who at 36 is the oldest man in the draw. They helped their country win the Davis Cup in 2012 and 2013.
SHARAPOVA'S COLD
After her first-round match, Maria Sharapova dispensed with the customary post-match, on-court interview and headed straight to the locker room, drawing whistles and boos from spectators. She explained that she didn't have much of a voice because of a cold that had her coughing throughout her win that day. On Wednesday, the defending champion faces another Russian, Vitalia Diatchenko, who is ranked 91st, 89 places below Sharapova.
DOUBLE DIPPING
___


Staff Writer | May 27, 2015 03:13 AM EDT
 
Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal shared numerous epic battles throughout their respective legendary career, each one of these encounters produced tensions and drama like no one has ever seen on the tennis court. But despite their fiery rivalry, Federer and Nadal always have mutual respect for each other as the top-2 players in their generation, if not in the history of the sport.
Like Us on Facebook
That's why in an interview before he begins his 62nd Grand Slam campaign, Federer didn't hesitate in saying Nadal is very much in the thick of the fight for this year's French Open crown.
For all the disappointments and heartaches Nadal suffered throughout the clay-court season, Federer knows that the Mallorcan Bull will be playing every match at Roland Garros with chip on his shoulder. And for that reason alone, Nadal will be even more dangerous than he has ever been in previous contests.
Nadal might have lost the favorite votes to a red hot Novak Djokovic for this year's Roland Garros, but he's more than capable of staging a spirited run on his way to his 10th crown on the red dirt of Paris. He's on the cusp of winning 15th major crown, surpassing Pete Sampras' 14 and trailing only Federer with his 17 slams.
However, Federer seems not pretty much bothered if ever Nadal eventually breaks his record, which he believes the Spaniard can really do. At the end of the day, he thinks the accomplishments he garnered throughout his career on and off the court will live on forever, regardless of the number of Grand Slam and other championships he won.  
"Rafa is very close, he can do it. The records are there to be broken, I'm very relaxed about this. I had my moment when I passed Sampras' record. You do not want someone to beat your record, but you are happy for the player who can do it. In the end no one will take away what you've done, just come and passed," Federer told reporters via Tennis World USA.
Tags:
Related News
1
3
5
In Case You Missed It

