NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Inside
PARIS —  Here's guessing French Open security guards will not allow a selfie-seeker — or anyone else, for that matter — get anywhere near Roger Federer following his second-round match today.
Not after what transpired at the end of his victory in the first round. A teenager managed to make it out of the stands and stroll across the court to get to Federer, using a cellphone to try to snap photos.
It will be interesting to see whether there are any extra measures implemented at Court Suzanne Lenglen for Federer's match again Marcel Granollers, given the 17-time Grand Slam champion's criticism of security at Court Philippe Chatrier on Sunday.
"We need to make sure that it's safe out there and people don't just wander on the court like a free pass," Federer said.
Tournament director Gilbert Ysern's stance that day was there was no need to make any changes to protect players, but he did say: "For sure, we will reinforce the message again that clearly nobody is allowed to get on court in any case, at any time, for any reason."
The contest itself between the second-seeded Federer and the 57th-ranked Granollers hardly seems all that intriguing: Not only has Granollers never been past the fourth round in 30 previous major tournaments, but he's also 0-3 against Federer.
Here's a look at what else is happening at the French Open today:
MONFILS TAKES THE STAGE
Tennis' foremost showman, 13th-seeded Gael Monfils of France, plays on his country's biggest stage, Court Philippe Chatrier, against Diego Schwartzman of Argentina. Last year, Monfils wowed the crowd at Roland Garros the day before the tournament started by breakdancing on center court during an exhibition match. His running, leaping, diving shots are the stuff of legend around these parts — and there's plenty to see on YouTube.
CZECHS, MATES
Fourth-seeded Tomas Berdych, the Wimbledon runner-up in 2010, takes on his Davis Cup teammate for the Czech Republic, Radek Stepanek, who at 36 is the oldest man in the draw. They helped their country win the Davis Cup in 2012 and 2013.
SHARAPOVA'S COLD
After her first-round match, Maria Sharapova dispensed with the customary post-match, on-court interview and headed straight to the locker room, drawing whistles and boos from spectators. She explained that she didn't have much of a voice because of a cold that had her coughing throughout her win that day. On Wednesday, the defending champion faces another Russian, Vitalia Diatchenko, who is ranked 91st, 89 places below Sharapova.
DOUBLE DIPPING
___


2015-05-27 08:16
share this
Paris - Roger Federer, the 2009 winner, and defending women's champion Maria Sharapova target places in the French Open third round on Wednesday.
Second seed Federer, comfortably in the other half of the draw to Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray, faces Spanish clay-courter Marcel Granollers on Court Suzanne Lenglen.
Federer has defeated Granollers in all of their three previous meetings.
Sharapova, the 2012 and 2014 champion, faces Russian Fed Cup teammate Vitalia Diatchenko with the second-round tie opening play on Court Philippe Chatrier.
Diatchenko, the world number 91, is bidding to make the third round for the first time.
Fifth seed Kei Nishikori, the only Japanese man left in the draw of the five who started out, meets Brazil's Thomaz Bellucci, who warmed up for Roland Garros with the claycourt title in Geneva last weekend.
Romanian third seed Simona Halep, the runner-up to Sharapova in 2014, faces 33-year-old Croatian Mirjana Lucic-Baroni, who last made the second round in 2002.
Tomas Berdych, the fourth-seeded Czech, takes on Davis Cup winning teammate Radek Stepanek, who at 36 is the oldest man in the draw.
French Open order of play on show-courts on Wednesday, the fourth day of the 2015 tournament at Roland Garros (x denotes seeded player; 11:00 start):
Court Philippe Chatrier
Carla Suarez Navarro (ESP x8) v Virginie Razzano (FRA)
Court Suzanne Lenglen
Court One
2015-05-26 20:37
 
Comment on this story
Australian Open
French Open
Men
Women
Search
Ekisnetmyself
I'm a 38 year old man looking to meet women between the ages of 28 and 40. View profile
Latest blogs
Twitter Follow Sport24 on Twitter
Facebook "Like" Sport24's Facebook page
Newsletters Sign up for the Morning Glory, Super 15 and Soccer newsletters
WIN Enter and win with Sport24!
Mobile Sport24 on your mobile phone - WAP, alerts, downloads, services
Forum Have your Say on Sport24's brand new Forum!
BlackBerry Stay in the loop on your BlackBerry
iPhone Latest Sport24 news on your iPhone
RSS Feeds Sport news delivered really simply.
Blogs Yes your opinion counts. Get it out there
 
 
I am a:

