NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Inside
PARIS —  Here's guessing French Open security guards will not allow a selfie-seeker — or anyone else, for that matter — get anywhere near Roger Federer following his second-round match today.
Not after what transpired at the end of his victory in the first round. A teenager managed to make it out of the stands and stroll across the court to get to Federer, using a cellphone to try to snap photos.
It will be interesting to see whether there are any extra measures implemented at Court Suzanne Lenglen for Federer's match again Marcel Granollers, given the 17-time Grand Slam champion's criticism of security at Court Philippe Chatrier on Sunday.
"We need to make sure that it's safe out there and people don't just wander on the court like a free pass," Federer said.
Tournament director Gilbert Ysern's stance that day was there was no need to make any changes to protect players, but he did say: "For sure, we will reinforce the message again that clearly nobody is allowed to get on court in any case, at any time, for any reason."
The contest itself between the second-seeded Federer and the 57th-ranked Granollers hardly seems all that intriguing: Not only has Granollers never been past the fourth round in 30 previous major tournaments, but he's also 0-3 against Federer.
Here's a look at what else is happening at the French Open today:
MONFILS TAKES THE STAGE
Tennis' foremost showman, 13th-seeded Gael Monfils of France, plays on his country's biggest stage, Court Philippe Chatrier, against Diego Schwartzman of Argentina. Last year, Monfils wowed the crowd at Roland Garros the day before the tournament started by breakdancing on center court during an exhibition match. His running, leaping, diving shots are the stuff of legend around these parts — and there's plenty to see on YouTube.
CZECHS, MATES
Fourth-seeded Tomas Berdych, the Wimbledon runner-up in 2010, takes on his Davis Cup teammate for the Czech Republic, Radek Stepanek, who at 36 is the oldest man in the draw. They helped their country win the Davis Cup in 2012 and 2013.
SHARAPOVA'S COLD
After her first-round match, Maria Sharapova dispensed with the customary post-match, on-court interview and headed straight to the locker room, drawing whistles and boos from spectators. She explained that she didn't have much of a voice because of a cold that had her coughing throughout her win that day. On Wednesday, the defending champion faces another Russian, Vitalia Diatchenko, who is ranked 91st, 89 places below Sharapova.
DOUBLE DIPPING
___


Clive Mason/Getty Images
The second round of the 2015 French Open is now underway, with Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova in action on Day 4.
The 2015 French Open has moved into the second round and the top seeds on both sides of the bracket are still intact. Men's No. 1 seed Novak Djokovic and women's No. 1 seed Serena Williams both made it through their matches on Tuesday and will make their third round bid on Thursday. But first, we have the other side of the bracket set for Wednesday at Roland Garros, including No. 2 seeds Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova.
Sharapova will get the day started on Philippe-Chatrier Court, facing off against Vitalia Diatchenko at 11 a.m. local time (5 a.m. ET). Federer won't be in action until women's No. 26 seed Samantha Stosur finishes her match against Amandine Hesse on Suzanne-Lenglen Court. Federer's match against Marcel Granollers will be the second match on that court.
Federer has only won one French Open title over the course of his legendary career, which is surprising given his 17 Grand Slam titles. With Rafael Nadal struggling coming into the tournament, this may be Federer's best chance of getting a second title at Roland Garros. He's got a long way to go, regarldess.
Other top seeds will be in action on the day. Women's No. 3 seed Simona Halep will be taking on Mirjana Lucic-Baroni, while men's No. 5 seed Kei Nishikori will be taking on Thomaz Bellucci.
This all gets underway at 5 a.m., with ESPN 2 having the televised coverage through 10 a.m. From there, the Tennis Channel will carry coverage through 3:30 p.m.   Live streaming options are available at WatchESPN , and via the  Tennis Channel's official site . Below are some of the important matchups, with a full schedule available  at the Roland Garros website .
Men's Singles
No. 19 Robert Bautista Agut vs. Lukas Rosol
No. 21 Pablo Cuevas vs. Dominic Thiem
No. 22 Philipp Kohlschreiber vs. Pablo Andujar
No. 24 Ernests Gulbis vs. Nicolas Mahut
No. 28 Fabio Fognini vs. Benoit Paire
No. 32 Fernando Verdasco vs. Benjamin Becker
Women's Singles
No. 8 Carla Suarez Navarro vs. Virginie Razzano
No. 9 Ekaterina Makarova vs. Teliana Pereira
No. 11 Angelique Kerber vs. Ajla Tomljanovic
No. 13 Lucie Safarova vs. Kurumi Nara
No. 19 Elina Svitolina vs. Yulia Putinsteva
No. 20 Sabine Lisicki vs. Daria Gavrilova
No. 21 Garbine Muguruza vs. Camila Giorgi
No. 26 Samantha Stosur vs. Amandine Hesse
No. 28 Flavia Pennetta vs. Magdalena Rybarikova
No. 29 Alize Cornet vs. Alexandra Dulgheru
More from SBNation.com
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot password?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Almost done,
By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .
Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.
We have our own Community Guidelines at SBNation.com. You should read them.
I Agree to the Community Guidelines
Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.
We have our own Community Guidelines at SBNation.com. You should read them.
I Agree to the Community Guidelines
Authenticating
Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.
In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
Yes, share my data

