NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Inside
PARIS —  Here's guessing French Open security guards will not allow a selfie-seeker — or anyone else, for that matter — get anywhere near Roger Federer following his second-round match today.
Not after what transpired at the end of his victory in the first round. A teenager managed to make it out of the stands and stroll across the court to get to Federer, using a cellphone to try to snap photos.
It will be interesting to see whether there are any extra measures implemented at Court Suzanne Lenglen for Federer's match again Marcel Granollers, given the 17-time Grand Slam champion's criticism of security at Court Philippe Chatrier on Sunday.
"We need to make sure that it's safe out there and people don't just wander on the court like a free pass," Federer said.
Tournament director Gilbert Ysern's stance that day was there was no need to make any changes to protect players, but he did say: "For sure, we will reinforce the message again that clearly nobody is allowed to get on court in any case, at any time, for any reason."
The contest itself between the second-seeded Federer and the 57th-ranked Granollers hardly seems all that intriguing: Not only has Granollers never been past the fourth round in 30 previous major tournaments, but he's also 0-3 against Federer.
Here's a look at what else is happening at the French Open today:
MONFILS TAKES THE STAGE
Tennis' foremost showman, 13th-seeded Gael Monfils of France, plays on his country's biggest stage, Court Philippe Chatrier, against Diego Schwartzman of Argentina. Last year, Monfils wowed the crowd at Roland Garros the day before the tournament started by breakdancing on center court during an exhibition match. His running, leaping, diving shots are the stuff of legend around these parts — and there's plenty to see on YouTube.
CZECHS, MATES
Fourth-seeded Tomas Berdych, the Wimbledon runner-up in 2010, takes on his Davis Cup teammate for the Czech Republic, Radek Stepanek, who at 36 is the oldest man in the draw. They helped their country win the Davis Cup in 2012 and 2013.
SHARAPOVA'S COLD
After her first-round match, Maria Sharapova dispensed with the customary post-match, on-court interview and headed straight to the locker room, drawing whistles and boos from spectators. She explained that she didn't have much of a voice because of a cold that had her coughing throughout her win that day. On Wednesday, the defending champion faces another Russian, Vitalia Diatchenko, who is ranked 91st, 89 places below Sharapova.
DOUBLE DIPPING
___


UK EDITION
May 27, 2015 08:49 BST
Roger Federer is gunning for his second French Open title as he takes on Marcel Granollers in the second round. Getty Images
World number 2 Roger Federer will take on Marcel Granollers in the second round of the 2015 French Open on 27 May, on court Suzanne-Lenglen.
Where to Watch Live
The match starts at 11.30am BST. Live coverage is on British Eurosport, British Eurosport HD, British Eurosport 2, British Eurosports 2 HD, ITV 4. Real-time internet updates are available on Roland Garros' official website .
Overview
Former World No 1 Roger Federer is looking for his first Grand Slam singles title since his victory in the 2013 Wimbledon and his second French Open title.
The Swiss maestro came through a comfortable first round match against Alejandro Falla and will take on Spaniard Marcel Granollers, whose best record on clay this season has been the R16 at Barcelona and Madrid, while Federer has won the Istanbul event and lost in the final of the Italian Open.
Meanwhile, Granollers, who has not had a successful 2015 campaign, will be hoping to cause an upset early in the tournament and if there is any surface that Federer is easier to negotiate then it has to be clay, where he has struggled in recent years.
Betting Odds (888Sport.com)
Head-to-Head
Federer has won all of their previous encounters and leads 3-0 on the head-to-head count. The Swiss former World No 1 has faced the Spaniard once in a Grand Slam, beating him in the R32 of the US Open in 2014.

