NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Inside
PARIS —  Here's guessing French Open security guards will not allow a selfie-seeker — or anyone else, for that matter — get anywhere near Roger Federer following his second-round match today.
Not after what transpired at the end of his victory in the first round. A teenager managed to make it out of the stands and stroll across the court to get to Federer, using a cellphone to try to snap photos.
It will be interesting to see whether there are any extra measures implemented at Court Suzanne Lenglen for Federer's match again Marcel Granollers, given the 17-time Grand Slam champion's criticism of security at Court Philippe Chatrier on Sunday.
"We need to make sure that it's safe out there and people don't just wander on the court like a free pass," Federer said.
Tournament director Gilbert Ysern's stance that day was there was no need to make any changes to protect players, but he did say: "For sure, we will reinforce the message again that clearly nobody is allowed to get on court in any case, at any time, for any reason."
The contest itself between the second-seeded Federer and the 57th-ranked Granollers hardly seems all that intriguing: Not only has Granollers never been past the fourth round in 30 previous major tournaments, but he's also 0-3 against Federer.
Here's a look at what else is happening at the French Open today:
MONFILS TAKES THE STAGE
Tennis' foremost showman, 13th-seeded Gael Monfils of France, plays on his country's biggest stage, Court Philippe Chatrier, against Diego Schwartzman of Argentina. Last year, Monfils wowed the crowd at Roland Garros the day before the tournament started by breakdancing on center court during an exhibition match. His running, leaping, diving shots are the stuff of legend around these parts — and there's plenty to see on YouTube.
CZECHS, MATES
Fourth-seeded Tomas Berdych, the Wimbledon runner-up in 2010, takes on his Davis Cup teammate for the Czech Republic, Radek Stepanek, who at 36 is the oldest man in the draw. They helped their country win the Davis Cup in 2012 and 2013.
SHARAPOVA'S COLD
After her first-round match, Maria Sharapova dispensed with the customary post-match, on-court interview and headed straight to the locker room, drawing whistles and boos from spectators. She explained that she didn't have much of a voice because of a cold that had her coughing throughout her win that day. On Wednesday, the defending champion faces another Russian, Vitalia Diatchenko, who is ranked 91st, 89 places below Sharapova.
DOUBLE DIPPING
___


May 27, 2015
David Vincent/Associated Press
25
Reads
0
Comments
The first round of the 2015 French Open is in the books, which means Wednesday's Round 2 action will bring a step up in competition for the top stars in Roland Garros.
 
Time (ET)
David Vincent/Associated Press
A familiar foe stands between Federer and a spot in the third round.
While the Swiss star has never lost to Marcel Granollers in three career meetings, the last one gave Federer fans plenty of reason for concern. He took the opening set against Federer in the 2014 U.S. Open, before Federer dominated the final three sets and advanced past the test.
The Spaniard got things started in Roland Garros in style, dispatching Matthias Bachinger in straight sets to open up his tournament. Three of his four career titles came on clay, which indicates another tough outing for Federer.
But even though it's a tougher Round 2 opponent than expected, it shouldn't deter Federer from continuing the strong play he showcased in his opener. He looked confident and comfortable in his first-round win over Alejandro Falla, and will take another stride toward a second Roland Garros title by overcoming an early test from Granollers.
Prediction: Federer wins in four sets
 
Christophe Ena/Associated Press
She's only played one match thus far, but things haven't been easy for the defending women's champion as Maria Sharapova has been battling a cold throughout the opening few days at Roland Garros.
Sharapova was far from her best in her first-round win over Kaia Kanepi, but overcame her illness to still win in straight sets. As she told Roland Garros, nothing will stop her from taking the court in her title defense:
"Unless I'm in my coffin...I'm going to be out there!" #Sharapova won't be letting her illness get her down #RG15 pic.twitter.com/W7jvVTCuFI
Her road to a second straight French Open title will continue through a fellow Russian, going up against young up-and-comer Vitalia Diatchenko in the first match of the day on Philippe-Chatrier Court. Diatchenko rallied from an opening-set loss to win in a thriller against Stefanie Voegele.
Unfamiliarity should bubble to the surface as Sharapova and Diatchenko have never met, but that should play to the favorite's advantage. The power and speed of Sharapova will simply be too much for Diatchenko to overcome.
Prediction: Sharapova wins in straight sets
 
Mike Hewitt/Getty Images
France's hopes of its first domestic title at Roland Garros since Yannick Noah in 1983 aren't squarely on the shoulders of No. 12 Gilles Simon, but he's the top-seeded Frenchmen—thus, taking on the brunt of the expectations.
Things turned sour for Simon quickly at the French Open as he dropped the first set to Lucas Pouille, only to rally and win the final three sets convincingly. But he could face an even tougher test Wednesday against Martin Klizan.
The Slovakian didn't have the same sort of Round 1 troubles—in fact, he took out 17-year-old Frances Tiafoe in just an hour and 40 minutes. But as Ricky Dimon noted, Klizan hasn't fared too well against Simon:
in two schedule meetings between Simon and Klizan, there has been 1 retirement and 1 walkover. Another one tomorrow would not be surprising.
It's hard to attribute those results too much to this matchup, as there will be much bigger implications and likely won't include injury issues like those matches did. But Klizan has struggled to make deep runs in Grand Slam tournaments, having never advanced past the fourth round.
Simon stumbled out of the gates at Roland Garros, but has since found his form. It would be surprising if he conceded any of his momentum against Klizan.
Prediction: Simon wins in straight sets
You're currently logged into Facebook
Do you want to share your Bleacher Report activity on Facebook?
Launch a career

