NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Inside
PARIS —  Here's guessing French Open security guards will not allow a selfie-seeker — or anyone else, for that matter — get anywhere near Roger Federer following his second-round match today.
Not after what transpired at the end of his victory in the first round. A teenager managed to make it out of the stands and stroll across the court to get to Federer, using a cellphone to try to snap photos.
It will be interesting to see whether there are any extra measures implemented at Court Suzanne Lenglen for Federer's match again Marcel Granollers, given the 17-time Grand Slam champion's criticism of security at Court Philippe Chatrier on Sunday.
"We need to make sure that it's safe out there and people don't just wander on the court like a free pass," Federer said.
Tournament director Gilbert Ysern's stance that day was there was no need to make any changes to protect players, but he did say: "For sure, we will reinforce the message again that clearly nobody is allowed to get on court in any case, at any time, for any reason."
The contest itself between the second-seeded Federer and the 57th-ranked Granollers hardly seems all that intriguing: Not only has Granollers never been past the fourth round in 30 previous major tournaments, but he's also 0-3 against Federer.
Here's a look at what else is happening at the French Open today:
MONFILS TAKES THE STAGE
Tennis' foremost showman, 13th-seeded Gael Monfils of France, plays on his country's biggest stage, Court Philippe Chatrier, against Diego Schwartzman of Argentina. Last year, Monfils wowed the crowd at Roland Garros the day before the tournament started by breakdancing on center court during an exhibition match. His running, leaping, diving shots are the stuff of legend around these parts — and there's plenty to see on YouTube.
CZECHS, MATES
Fourth-seeded Tomas Berdych, the Wimbledon runner-up in 2010, takes on his Davis Cup teammate for the Czech Republic, Radek Stepanek, who at 36 is the oldest man in the draw. They helped their country win the Davis Cup in 2012 and 2013.
SHARAPOVA'S COLD
After her first-round match, Maria Sharapova dispensed with the customary post-match, on-court interview and headed straight to the locker room, drawing whistles and boos from spectators. She explained that she didn't have much of a voice because of a cold that had her coughing throughout her win that day. On Wednesday, the defending champion faces another Russian, Vitalia Diatchenko, who is ranked 91st, 89 places below Sharapova.
DOUBLE DIPPING
___


Last Updated: 27/05/15 7:00am
Roger Federer: Has a perfect record against Marcel Granollers
Second seed Roger Federer returns to action against Marcel Granollers in the second round of the French Open on Wednesday.
The Swiss star was at the centre of security scare at the weekend as he was accosted by a fan on court following his opening win over Alejandro Falla.
But his attention will have turned towards Granollers, a Spanish opponent who briefly troubled him during their meeting at last year’s US Open.
Granollers took the opening set before Federer stormed back to claim victory and the world No 2 has also beaten the Barcelona man in their two previous matches.
Stanislas Wawrinka also had cause for complaint after he was angered by an article about his private life on the official website.
His post-match comments overshadowed a convincing win over Marsel Ilhan and the eighth seed can put this incident behind him when he faces Dusan Lajovic. 
Tomas Berdych, the fourth seed, continues his campaign with a clash against fellow Czech Radek Stepanek.
The pair have only met three times before, but never on clay, with Berdych claiming victory in their most recent encounter at the Shanghai Masters in 2011.
The world No 4 made an impressive start, breezing past Japanese qualifier Yoshihito Nishioka in his first round match, and will be expected to oust Stepanek.
Kei Nishikori: Producing impressive displays on clay
Kei Nishikori has been tipped as another contender for the French crown and will be hoping to advance with victory over Thomaz Bellucci.
The fifth seed was a first-round casualty last year, but easily avoided a repeat exit with his straight sets win over Paul-Henri Mathieu on Sunday.
In the women’s draw, reigning champion Maria Sharapova will face compatriot Vitalia Diatchenko in her second match of the tournament.
The Russian started the defence of her title in style, cruising to a 6-2 6-4 win over Estonia's Kaia Kanepi.
Third seed Simona Halep also takes on Mirjana Lucic-Baroni, while seventh seed Ana Ivanovic has been pitted against Misaki Doi.       
Message
Sky and our business partners may use your information to contact you about products and services you may like. By pressing submit you are indicating your agreement to this unless you tick the box to opt out.

