Ted Cruz touts early presidential campaign fundraising haul
Updated:
Related
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa — Sen. Ted Cruz boasted Thursday that in the first eight days of his presidential campaign, he raked in $4 million — a tally, he told Iowa Republicans, that outpaces that of any previous GOP contender.
“This constitutional conservative campaign has raised more in the first week than any Republican nominee in modern times,” Cruz said. “We raised more … than Romney did in 2012 … [or] McCain in 2008.”
Cruz said more than 45,000 people have donated, and 95 percent of the donations were $100 or less.
“It didn’t come from the big lobbyists in Washington. They’re all supporting somebody else. It came from the American people,” he said. “That, I believe, is the path to victory in the primaries” and in November 2016.
Cruz said his ability to scoop up financial support since announcing for president belies the conventional wisdom that he’s too “despised by the Washington elite” to win. The Texan cited The New York Times as the bogeyman for that bit of punditry, though a host of conservative thinkers agree he’s too divisive to win the primary, let alone the general election.
He again denounced the idea of nominating a Republican from the party’s “mushy middle.”
“Every time we do that we lose,” he said.
Cruz appeared at three events Thursday in Iowa. The first, in Cedar Falls, was hosted by Cedar Valley Patriots for Christ, a conservative group, and the Blackhawk County Republicans. The event drew nearly 250 people, as did his next event in Cedar Rapids.
Freshman U.S. Rep. Rod Blum introduced Cruz as someone who “has not taken a seat in the back of the room and been quiet. … That’s why inside the Beltway he doesn’t have a lot of friends. I doubt he’s on leadership’s Christmas card list.”
Follow Todd J. Gillman on Twitter
at @toddgillman.
top picks
Taste test
Health blog
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

