NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Cavaliers’ LeBron James, With Rout of Hawks, Again Heads to Finals
By ANDREW KEH
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Cavaliers’ LeBron James, left, with the Hawks’ DeMarre Carroll in Game 4. James is the first player to reach a fifth consecutive N.B.A. finals since 1966. Credit Gregory Shamus/Getty Images
Advertisement
CLEVELAND — LeBron James secured his fifth straight trip to the N.B.A. finals on Tuesday night, extending a storybook season with the Cleveland Cavaliers , his hometown team, with whom he reunited this season after a four-year separation.
That James returned older, wiser and more assured of his immense talents after four trips to the finals with the Miami Heat — and two championship rings — was never more apparent than in this Eastern Conference finals series against the top-seeded Atlanta Hawks.
It was a four-game sweep, with James carrying a bruised Cavaliers team on his own weary shoulders through the first three games, averaging 32.7 points, 11.7 rebounds and 10 assists. In the final game, he found some reprieve, sitting the entire final quarter as the Cavaliers cruised to a 118-88 victory at Quicken Loans Arena.
Photo
Carroll trying to stop a shot by Kyrie Irving, who scored 16 points in his return to the Cavaliers. Credit Jason Miller/Getty Images
At the final buzzer, confetti drifted down from the rafters as the players from the two teams shook hands. When the Hawks departed the floor, James bounced as he donned a conference champion T-shirt and hat and awaited the trophy.
“We want to take this the full way,” the team’s owner, Dan Gilbert, said in an interview on the court.
James became the first player to reach five consecutive league finals since 1966, when four members of the Boston Celtics — Bill Russell, Sam Jones, K. C. Jones and Satch Sanders — completed the same feat.
James was a seemingly omnipresent and unstoppable force on the court, as he has been throughout this postseason. He flitted around on defense, spreading his wingspan menacingly in the faces of Hawks players. On offense, he alternated bulldozing runs to the hoop with incisive passes. In stoppages of play, he power-walked to the Cavaliers’ bench and sat there almost completely still, like a prizefighter on a boxing ring stool.
Logging 29 minutes on the court, James finished with 23 points, 9 rebounds, 7 assists and 2 steals. Kyrie Irving added 16 points after missing two games.
James said on Tuesday that he had been receiving round-the-clock treatment for various ailments he declined to disclose. “There’s a sacrifice to your body when you want to win,” he said.
Now James has led the Cavaliers back to the finals for the first time since 2007, when the San Antonio Spurs swept them in four games.
Photo
Cleveland’s Tristan Thompson dunking. He had 16 points and 11 rebounds. Credit Gregory Shamus/Getty Images
“We have everything it takes to win,” he said after the game, drawing cheers from the crowd.
Cleveland’s joy on Tuesday came at the expense of the Hawks, who delighted basketball purists this season with their dynamic offense and team-oriented play. They had no household names on their roster at the start of the season, yet they sent four players to the All-Star Game and finished the regular season with 60 wins. In acknowledgment of the Hawks’ team dynamic, the N.B.A. took the unusual step of naming their entire starting lineup the league’s player of the month in January.
Advertisement
The veteran forward Thabo Sefolosha broke his ankle in an incident involving New York City police officers near the end of the regular season. Forward DeMarre Carroll played since Game 2 of this series with a sprained left knee. Kyle Korver sustained a season-ending right ankle injury in Game 2.
It seems highly doubtful that anyone could have stopped James. Three minutes into the first quarter on Tuesday, he sprinted down the left sideline on a breakaway, took a diagonal path to the rim and threw down an emphatic, one-handed dunk.
He strutted the length of the court, nodding his chin in exaggerated fashion toward the crowd, like a professional wrestler, as the Hawks called timeout.
The crowd lapped up the theatrics, and the fans grew even louder upon the entrance of Matthew Dellavedova, who became an unlikely hero this week when some members of the Hawks cast him as a dirty player. The Cavaliers went up by 12 points after one quarter and never looked back.
Dellavedova was showered with cheers midway through the fourth, when he completed a one-handed putback layup while absorbing a foul.
Among those cheering was James, who will resume the chase for his third championship ring next week.
“He wants to lead us,” Coach David Blatt said, “and we want to keep going.”
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Cavs Romp, and James Returns to the Finals . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


May 26, 2015 at 8:17 pm.
CLEVELAND — LeBron James pulled the conference championship T-shirt over his sweaty, weary frame and turned to J.R. Smith with one simple message: “Four more.”
This is why James returned to Cleveland. The Cavaliers are back in the NBA Finals.
James scored 23 points, grabbed nine rebounds and passed for seven assists while guiding the Cavaliers past the Atlanta Hawks 118-88 Tuesday night and into the NBA Finals.
The Cavs swept the Hawks out of the Eastern Conference finals to put James into the Finals for the fifth consecutive season. Cleveland advanced to the Finals for the second time in the team’s 46-year history, the other being 2006-07, when a James-led squad was swept by the San Antonio Spurs.
James and teammate James Jones become the only NBA players to appear in five straight Finals aside from Bill Russell, Satch Sanders, K.C. Jones, Sam Jones, Tom Heinsohn, Frank Ramsey, Bob Cousy and Bill Sharman, who were all part of the Boston Celtics’ 1960s dynasty.
Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving returned after missing two games with tendinitis in his left knee. Irving scored 16 points and passed for five assists in 23 minutes, and he now will have more than a week to rest his ailing knee before the Finals begin on June 4 against either the Golden State Warriors or Houston Rockets. The Western Conference champion will have home-court advantage.
This wasn’t so much a contest as it was 48 minutes of victory laps for a city that hasn’t celebrated a major sports championship in 51 years.
James’ soaring dunk from just inside the free-throw line forced the Hawks to call a timeout 90 seconds into the game. James used the break to strut down the sideline and baseline on his way back to the bench, imploring fans to stand and cheer. They did for most of the evening while guys like guard Iman Shumpert, forward Tristan Thompson and guard J.R. Smith took turns playing to the crowd at various moments over the final three quarters.
Smith had 18 points and 10 rebounds off the bench, Thompson had 16 points and 11 rebounds, and center Timofey Mozgov finished with 14 points and seven rebounds for the Cavs.
The lead never dropped below double figures after Cleveland pushed it to 20 in the second quarter, swelling to 31 in the fourth quarter.
It was a long, painful journey back to the top of the East following James’ departure for Miami in 2010. The Cavs celebrated more lottery victories than important game victories during his four years away. They compiled the league’s worst record during those four years, spending the time stockpiling young players and trade assets in anticipation of this moment.
James returned home last summer, the Cavs bundled some of their young talent and picks for forward Kevin Love, then withstood Love’s early exit from this postseason and the December loss of starting center Anderson Varejao to win the East without them.
Guard Jeff Teague scored 17 points, guard Kent Bazemore scored 12 and forward Paul Millsap had 16 points and 10 rebounds, but they couldn’t extend the Hawks’ season another day. By sweeping Atlanta, the Cavs eliminated the best team in the East during the regular season, but a team that seemed to peak too early. The Cavs were the opposite, winning 53 games during the regular season and saving some of their best performances — particularly defensively — for the playoffs.
Irving and Thompson were the first pieces of the rebuild, entering the league as the first and fourth overall picks in 2011. They have both played huge roles at various points of this year’s playoff run, with Thompson shining as a defender and rebounder since Love’s shoulder injury. Thompson even made an 18-footer at the first-quarter buzzer Tuesday, drawing smiles and giggles from the Cavs bench.
David Blatt, meanwhile, was still coaching in Israel 12 months ago. Now he is headed to the Finals in his first season in the NBA.
“I just try not to get involved with what I feel and what I am in all this,” Blatt said pregame. “What I’m supposed to do is help my team win. What I’m supposed to do is coach this team to the best of my abilities, and the rest of the stuff is just storyline.
“I feel lucky to be working with the great staff that I have and the great players that I have and knowing that, if we do things right, we’ve got a chance to achieve things, and we have so far. The best thing we can do is think about how and what we need to do to keep going. That’s where my mind is at.”
NOTES: Hawks G Kyle Korver will have surgery Wednesday afternoon on his right leg, although the team has yet to disclose the specific injury. He is out the rest of the postseason. … The cast of the “Entourage” movie attended Tuesday’s game. Actor Kevin Dillon missed a 3-point shot during pregame warm-ups that nearly hit Cavs G Iman Shumpert in the face. … F LeBron James acknowledged he has had trouble sleeping some nights because of the ankle, knee and back issues he is battling. “I’m OK with not being able to sleep at night because of a back or ankle or a knee or not feeling great going into an Eastern Conference game. I’ve been doing it for a while and been doing it at a high level and have been able to advance.” … James called Warriors G Steph Curry’s fall in Game 4 Monday night horrific. “I thought he lucked out by getting his hand out of there. If he would have landed all his weight onto his arm he could have actually broken his wrist or his arm,” he said.
All Rights Reserved.

