NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Cavaliers’ LeBron James, With Rout of Hawks, Again Heads to Finals
By ANDREW KEH
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Cavaliers’ LeBron James, left, with the Hawks’ DeMarre Carroll in Game 4. James is the first player to reach a fifth consecutive N.B.A. finals since 1966. Credit Gregory Shamus/Getty Images
Advertisement
CLEVELAND — LeBron James secured his fifth straight trip to the N.B.A. finals on Tuesday night, extending a storybook season with the Cleveland Cavaliers , his hometown team, with whom he reunited this season after a four-year separation.
That James returned older, wiser and more assured of his immense talents after four trips to the finals with the Miami Heat — and two championship rings — was never more apparent than in this Eastern Conference finals series against the top-seeded Atlanta Hawks.
It was a four-game sweep, with James carrying a bruised Cavaliers team on his own weary shoulders through the first three games, averaging 32.7 points, 11.7 rebounds and 10 assists. In the final game, he found some reprieve, sitting the entire final quarter as the Cavaliers cruised to a 118-88 victory at Quicken Loans Arena.
Photo
Carroll trying to stop a shot by Kyrie Irving, who scored 16 points in his return to the Cavaliers. Credit Jason Miller/Getty Images
At the final buzzer, confetti drifted down from the rafters as the players from the two teams shook hands. When the Hawks departed the floor, James bounced as he donned a conference champion T-shirt and hat and awaited the trophy.
“We want to take this the full way,” the team’s owner, Dan Gilbert, said in an interview on the court.
James became the first player to reach five consecutive league finals since 1966, when four members of the Boston Celtics — Bill Russell, Sam Jones, K. C. Jones and Satch Sanders — completed the same feat.
James was a seemingly omnipresent and unstoppable force on the court, as he has been throughout this postseason. He flitted around on defense, spreading his wingspan menacingly in the faces of Hawks players. On offense, he alternated bulldozing runs to the hoop with incisive passes. In stoppages of play, he power-walked to the Cavaliers’ bench and sat there almost completely still, like a prizefighter on a boxing ring stool.
Logging 29 minutes on the court, James finished with 23 points, 9 rebounds, 7 assists and 2 steals. Kyrie Irving added 16 points after missing two games.
James said on Tuesday that he had been receiving round-the-clock treatment for various ailments he declined to disclose. “There’s a sacrifice to your body when you want to win,” he said.
Now James has led the Cavaliers back to the finals for the first time since 2007, when the San Antonio Spurs swept them in four games.
Photo
Cleveland’s Tristan Thompson dunking. He had 16 points and 11 rebounds. Credit Gregory Shamus/Getty Images
“We have everything it takes to win,” he said after the game, drawing cheers from the crowd.
Cleveland’s joy on Tuesday came at the expense of the Hawks, who delighted basketball purists this season with their dynamic offense and team-oriented play. They had no household names on their roster at the start of the season, yet they sent four players to the All-Star Game and finished the regular season with 60 wins. In acknowledgment of the Hawks’ team dynamic, the N.B.A. took the unusual step of naming their entire starting lineup the league’s player of the month in January.
Advertisement
The veteran forward Thabo Sefolosha broke his ankle in an incident involving New York City police officers near the end of the regular season. Forward DeMarre Carroll played since Game 2 of this series with a sprained left knee. Kyle Korver sustained a season-ending right ankle injury in Game 2.
It seems highly doubtful that anyone could have stopped James. Three minutes into the first quarter on Tuesday, he sprinted down the left sideline on a breakaway, took a diagonal path to the rim and threw down an emphatic, one-handed dunk.
He strutted the length of the court, nodding his chin in exaggerated fashion toward the crowd, like a professional wrestler, as the Hawks called timeout.
The crowd lapped up the theatrics, and the fans grew even louder upon the entrance of Matthew Dellavedova, who became an unlikely hero this week when some members of the Hawks cast him as a dirty player. The Cavaliers went up by 12 points after one quarter and never looked back.
Dellavedova was showered with cheers midway through the fourth, when he completed a one-handed putback layup while absorbing a foul.
Among those cheering was James, who will resume the chase for his third championship ring next week.
“He wants to lead us,” Coach David Blatt said, “and we want to keep going.”
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Cavs Romp, and James Returns to the Finals . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...

