NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Cavaliers’ LeBron James, With Rout of Hawks, Again Heads to Finals
By ANDREW KEH
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Cavaliers’ LeBron James, left, with the Hawks’ DeMarre Carroll in Game 4. James is the first player to reach a fifth consecutive N.B.A. finals since 1966. Credit Gregory Shamus/Getty Images
Advertisement
CLEVELAND — LeBron James secured his fifth straight trip to the N.B.A. finals on Tuesday night, extending a storybook season with the Cleveland Cavaliers , his hometown team, with whom he reunited this season after a four-year separation.
That James returned older, wiser and more assured of his immense talents after four trips to the finals with the Miami Heat — and two championship rings — was never more apparent than in this Eastern Conference finals series against the top-seeded Atlanta Hawks.
It was a four-game sweep, with James carrying a bruised Cavaliers team on his own weary shoulders through the first three games, averaging 32.7 points, 11.7 rebounds and 10 assists. In the final game, he found some reprieve, sitting the entire final quarter as the Cavaliers cruised to a 118-88 victory at Quicken Loans Arena.
Photo
Carroll trying to stop a shot by Kyrie Irving, who scored 16 points in his return to the Cavaliers. Credit Jason Miller/Getty Images
At the final buzzer, confetti drifted down from the rafters as the players from the two teams shook hands. When the Hawks departed the floor, James bounced as he donned a conference champion T-shirt and hat and awaited the trophy.
“We want to take this the full way,” the team’s owner, Dan Gilbert, said in an interview on the court.
James became the first player to reach five consecutive league finals since 1966, when four members of the Boston Celtics — Bill Russell, Sam Jones, K. C. Jones and Satch Sanders — completed the same feat.
James was a seemingly omnipresent and unstoppable force on the court, as he has been throughout this postseason. He flitted around on defense, spreading his wingspan menacingly in the faces of Hawks players. On offense, he alternated bulldozing runs to the hoop with incisive passes. In stoppages of play, he power-walked to the Cavaliers’ bench and sat there almost completely still, like a prizefighter on a boxing ring stool.
Logging 29 minutes on the court, James finished with 23 points, 9 rebounds, 7 assists and 2 steals. Kyrie Irving added 16 points after missing two games.
James said on Tuesday that he had been receiving round-the-clock treatment for various ailments he declined to disclose. “There’s a sacrifice to your body when you want to win,” he said.
Now James has led the Cavaliers back to the finals for the first time since 2007, when the San Antonio Spurs swept them in four games.
Photo
Cleveland’s Tristan Thompson dunking. He had 16 points and 11 rebounds. Credit Gregory Shamus/Getty Images
“We have everything it takes to win,” he said after the game, drawing cheers from the crowd.
Cleveland’s joy on Tuesday came at the expense of the Hawks, who delighted basketball purists this season with their dynamic offense and team-oriented play. They had no household names on their roster at the start of the season, yet they sent four players to the All-Star Game and finished the regular season with 60 wins. In acknowledgment of the Hawks’ team dynamic, the N.B.A. took the unusual step of naming their entire starting lineup the league’s player of the month in January.
Advertisement
The veteran forward Thabo Sefolosha broke his ankle in an incident involving New York City police officers near the end of the regular season. Forward DeMarre Carroll played since Game 2 of this series with a sprained left knee. Kyle Korver sustained a season-ending right ankle injury in Game 2.
It seems highly doubtful that anyone could have stopped James. Three minutes into the first quarter on Tuesday, he sprinted down the left sideline on a breakaway, took a diagonal path to the rim and threw down an emphatic, one-handed dunk.
He strutted the length of the court, nodding his chin in exaggerated fashion toward the crowd, like a professional wrestler, as the Hawks called timeout.
The crowd lapped up the theatrics, and the fans grew even louder upon the entrance of Matthew Dellavedova, who became an unlikely hero this week when some members of the Hawks cast him as a dirty player. The Cavaliers went up by 12 points after one quarter and never looked back.
Dellavedova was showered with cheers midway through the fourth, when he completed a one-handed putback layup while absorbing a foul.
Among those cheering was James, who will resume the chase for his third championship ring next week.
“He wants to lead us,” Coach David Blatt said, “and we want to keep going.”
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Cavs Romp, and James Returns to the Finals . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


CLEVELAND — LeBron James only needed three quarters to complete his task Tuesday night, but he was in no mood to sit as the final 12 minutes of the Cleveland Cavaliers’ series-clinching, 118-88 victory over the Atlanta Hawks played out. James had to stand andadmire what he had returned home to build, hopping up and down to celebrate every ridiculous fallaway jumper by J.R. Smith, a put-back dunk by Timofey Mosgov, a friendly-bounce jump hook by Kendrick Perkins or a nifty ball fake by Joe Harris.
The raucous fans, draped in bright yellow T-shirts, erupted with each basket and they had earned the right to gloat and get lost in the euphoria or dominating sweep of the top seed in the Eastern Conference. Cleveland waited eight years to experience the feeling again and suffered through four years of watching James find success in Miami. They’ve come together and the reunion couldn’t have been sweeter. By the time there was five minutes left, Quicken Loans Arena was filled with chants of “N-B-A Finals!”
James and Cavaliers are four wins short of the first championship since the franchise was created in 1970 and the first title of any kind in the city since Jim Brown and the Browns won the NFL championship in 1964. The team that is heading to the NBA Finals doesn’t resemble the group that James signed back with in July, or the group that showed up for training camp.
They Cavaliers entered with high expectations because of the all-star pairing of James, Kevin Love and Kyrie Irving but sputtered for two months until Cavaliers General Manager David Griffin made two season-altering deals, raiding lottery teams in New York and Denver, respectively, for two sharpshooting wing players and a defensive anchor at center. But the transformation continued through the postseason as James needed put together arguably his most impressive performance, coming three assists shy of averaging a triple double over the four games and carrying a hobbled roster and a rookie NBA coach with plenty of international success in David Blatt.
“I knew I was going to have to be patient,” James said. “We have everything it takes to win. We have grit, we have determination and we have a willingness to want to be great.”
After a win at the Toyota Center in Houston, massive flooding left Rockets center Dwight Howard stuck at the arena. Howard told reporters he felt "at home" with the fans. (Adam Canton/YouTube)
James had 23 points, nine rebounds and seven assists in just 29 minutes and became the first player in NBA history to reach five consecutive Finals on two teams and he did it by dispatching his second 60-win in the process. Realizing what he signed up for when he made his return, James felt he was going to need some reinforcements to deliver on the promise he made to Cavaliers when he was a young kid still attempting to understand the full extent of his powers.
But this postseason has served as a reminder of James’s ability to flex his individual gifts but also uplift the players around him. By the end of this series, Love was done for the season after having surgery to repair a separated shoulder and Irving was at less than full strength with tendinitis in his left knee.
Irving missed two games in the series but returned Tuesday seeking to gain some confidence in his knee before the Finals. Though he didn’t have his usual explosiveness, Irving was effective as he scored 16 points in 21 minutes. Smith, a Knicks reject, had 18 points and 10 rebounds. Mozgov had 14 points and 11 rebounds and Matthew Dellavedova solidified himself as a cult hero in this town by becoming a hard-nose irritant and adding 10 points.
The Hawks’ best season in 45 years ended with a whimper as they meekly gave in to an overwhelming tide of injuries and unfortunate breaks. All-star point guard Jeff Teague led the Hawks with 17 points and Paul Millsap, who has been playing with a sprained left shoulder for the past six weeks, had a double-double with 16 points and 10 rebounds.
But Atlanta was never able to overcome losing all-star guard Kyle Korver to a severely sprained ankle and having starting small forward DeMarre Carroll — their most consistent player through the first two rounds — fighting through a left knee injury as he attempted to defend James.
More coverage:
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!

