NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Cavaliers’ LeBron James, With Rout of Hawks, Again Heads to Finals
By ANDREW KEH
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Cavaliers’ LeBron James, left, with the Hawks’ DeMarre Carroll in Game 4. James is the first player to reach a fifth consecutive N.B.A. finals since 1966. Credit Gregory Shamus/Getty Images
Advertisement
CLEVELAND — LeBron James secured his fifth straight trip to the N.B.A. finals on Tuesday night, extending a storybook season with the Cleveland Cavaliers , his hometown team, with whom he reunited this season after a four-year separation.
That James returned older, wiser and more assured of his immense talents after four trips to the finals with the Miami Heat — and two championship rings — was never more apparent than in this Eastern Conference finals series against the top-seeded Atlanta Hawks.
It was a four-game sweep, with James carrying a bruised Cavaliers team on his own weary shoulders through the first three games, averaging 32.7 points, 11.7 rebounds and 10 assists. In the final game, he found some reprieve, sitting the entire final quarter as the Cavaliers cruised to a 118-88 victory at Quicken Loans Arena.
Photo
Carroll trying to stop a shot by Kyrie Irving, who scored 16 points in his return to the Cavaliers. Credit Jason Miller/Getty Images
At the final buzzer, confetti drifted down from the rafters as the players from the two teams shook hands. When the Hawks departed the floor, James bounced as he donned a conference champion T-shirt and hat and awaited the trophy.
“We want to take this the full way,” the team’s owner, Dan Gilbert, said in an interview on the court.
James became the first player to reach five consecutive league finals since 1966, when four members of the Boston Celtics — Bill Russell, Sam Jones, K. C. Jones and Satch Sanders — completed the same feat.
James was a seemingly omnipresent and unstoppable force on the court, as he has been throughout this postseason. He flitted around on defense, spreading his wingspan menacingly in the faces of Hawks players. On offense, he alternated bulldozing runs to the hoop with incisive passes. In stoppages of play, he power-walked to the Cavaliers’ bench and sat there almost completely still, like a prizefighter on a boxing ring stool.
Logging 29 minutes on the court, James finished with 23 points, 9 rebounds, 7 assists and 2 steals. Kyrie Irving added 16 points after missing two games.
James said on Tuesday that he had been receiving round-the-clock treatment for various ailments he declined to disclose. “There’s a sacrifice to your body when you want to win,” he said.
Now James has led the Cavaliers back to the finals for the first time since 2007, when the San Antonio Spurs swept them in four games.
Photo
Cleveland’s Tristan Thompson dunking. He had 16 points and 11 rebounds. Credit Gregory Shamus/Getty Images
“We have everything it takes to win,” he said after the game, drawing cheers from the crowd.
Cleveland’s joy on Tuesday came at the expense of the Hawks, who delighted basketball purists this season with their dynamic offense and team-oriented play. They had no household names on their roster at the start of the season, yet they sent four players to the All-Star Game and finished the regular season with 60 wins. In acknowledgment of the Hawks’ team dynamic, the N.B.A. took the unusual step of naming their entire starting lineup the league’s player of the month in January.
Advertisement
The veteran forward Thabo Sefolosha broke his ankle in an incident involving New York City police officers near the end of the regular season. Forward DeMarre Carroll played since Game 2 of this series with a sprained left knee. Kyle Korver sustained a season-ending right ankle injury in Game 2.
It seems highly doubtful that anyone could have stopped James. Three minutes into the first quarter on Tuesday, he sprinted down the left sideline on a breakaway, took a diagonal path to the rim and threw down an emphatic, one-handed dunk.
He strutted the length of the court, nodding his chin in exaggerated fashion toward the crowd, like a professional wrestler, as the Hawks called timeout.
The crowd lapped up the theatrics, and the fans grew even louder upon the entrance of Matthew Dellavedova, who became an unlikely hero this week when some members of the Hawks cast him as a dirty player. The Cavaliers went up by 12 points after one quarter and never looked back.
Dellavedova was showered with cheers midway through the fourth, when he completed a one-handed putback layup while absorbing a foul.
Among those cheering was James, who will resume the chase for his third championship ring next week.
“He wants to lead us,” Coach David Blatt said, “and we want to keep going.”
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Cavs Romp, and James Returns to the Finals . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
LeBron, Cavaliers earn NBA Finals spot by sweeping Hawks Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HJXNAK
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
LeBron, Cavaliers earn NBA Finals spot by sweeping Hawks
AP 11:51 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
CLEVELAND (AP) — The championship LeBron James craves more than any other, the one he came back home to get, is within reach.
The Cavaliers are in the NBA Finals.
James scored 23 points, Kyrie Irving provided a boost after missing two games and Cleveland reserved a spot in the finals with a 118-88 victory over the Atlanta Hawks on Tuesday night to win the Eastern Conference title.
By sweeping the top-seeded Hawks, the Cavs earned their second trip to the finals, where they will face either Golden State or Houston starting June 4.
It will be the fifth straight visit to the league's showcase event for the inimitable James, who returned to Cleveland after four years in Miami to try and end this city's championship drought dating to 1964. The Cavs are four wins from doing it, and if they can, James will have a title that would put him in a class by himself. Other players have won more championships, but none has ever done it for his ring-starved home region.
"We have everything it takes to win," James said after the Cavs were presented with the conference trophy.
However, they've got their eyes on another one.
"Cleveland," owner Dan Gibert said, addressing the crowd. "We're not settling for this."
Jeff Teague scored 17 and Paul Millsap 16 for Atlanta, which won a team-record 60 games during the regular season and made the conference finals for the first time since 1970. But the Hawks were no match for the Cavaliers and had no answer for James, who nearly averaged a triple-double in the four games.
J.R. Smith added 18 points and Tristan Thompson had 16 points and 11 rebounds for the Cavs, who were handed new caps and T-shirts following the win and were joined by family members on the floor to celebrate.
But unlike 2007, when James ran into center Zydrunas Ilgauskas' arms at the final horn, he was very business-like after the clock hit zero.
Standing at center court, he turned to Smith and reminded him there was work still undone.
"Four more," James said.
It was a tough way for the Hawks to end a remarkable season. They survived a tumultuous offseason, and their young roster gelled in January when they became the first franchise to go 17-0 in a calendar month. They went on to win 19 straight, improved their record by 22 wins over last season and beat Brooklyn and Washington to make their first conference finals since 1994.
But an injury to starting forward Thabo Sefolosha in April was followed by DeMarre Carroll injuring his knee in the series opener, before Kyle Korver's season ended in Game 2 with an ankle injury.
Those all hurt, but it was James who inflicted the most pain.
James carried the Cavs to their first finals appearance eight years ago, when they were swept by San Antonio. Cleveland was a heavy underdog then and it was assumed the Cavs would get back again. But James left in 2010 to join the Heat, a move that dropped the Cavaliers from relevance and into the draft lottery four straight years. But those days are over — Cleveland and King James reign supreme in the East.
The Cavs got through the last two rounds without forward Kevin Love, who sustained a season-ending shoulder injury. His arrival last summer, joining James and Irving to form a Big 3, made Cleveland the team to beat in the East.
It didn't go exactly as planned under first-year coach David Blatt, who left his family in Israel to take the Cavs' job.
"We're in Cleveland," Blatt cracked. "Nothing is easy here."
The Cavs lost center Anderson Varejao to a season-ending Achilles injury in December and they were 19-20 before trading for Smith, Iman Shumpert and Timofey Mozgov, a trio that transformed Cleveland.
Irving, who missed Cleveland's previous two games with tendinitis in his left knee, scored 16 and the All-Star point guard looked better than he has in weeks.
Unlike Game 3, when he missed his first 10 shots, James started much better and scored 15 in the first half as the Cavs opened a 17-point halftime lead. They pushed it to 20 early in the third, withstood a brief rally by the Hawks and spent the fourth quarter playing their reserves and getting ready for a party and some time off before the finals.
This was Cleveland's night from the start.
Following pregame introductions, James slapped hands with members of Gilbert's family and then with his boss. The two mended their broken relationship last summer, paving the way for James to re-sign with Cavs and try to deliver the title he couldn't during his first stint.
James had a bounce in his step and it wasn't long before he delivered one of his patented windmill dunks, prompting the Hawks to call a timeout while James ran the length of the baseline screaming at Cleveland fans to "Get up!"
Moments later, Irving showed he could get up after being knocked down.
He drove to the basket for a layup and was fouled hard. Irving, though, quickly popped to his feet and James, who was on the bench at the time, walked several feet onto the floor to salute his teammate.
The Cavs know they'll need a healthy Irving to take the next step — the one to the top.
HARD TO WATCH
Like anyone who saw it on TV, James said watching the nasty fall taken by Golden State's Stephen Curry during Game 4 in Houston was difficult. "It was pretty horrific," he said. "I thought he lucked out by getting his hand out of there. Because if he would have landed with all his weight onto his arm, he could have broke his wrist or arm. And, I've been there before." James broke his wrist on a similar tumble in high school. "I know exactly what he was going through at that point and time," he said.
KORVER SURGERY
Korver will undergo surgery Wednesday on the badly damaged ankle he injured when Matthew Dellavedova rolled up on him while diving for a loose ball in Game 2.
TIP-INS
Hawks: Among Atlanta's other notable accomplishments this season: a 12-game road winning streak, a 12-game run against Western Conference teams, a franchise record 13-game streak against Eastern teams.
Cavaliers: James is now 8-0 in the playoffs against Atlanta. ... James isn't the only Cleveland player heading to his fifth straight finals. So is swingman James Jones, who played four seasons with James in Miami. ... Cleveland is 26-2 at home since Jan. 19.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52

