Activision has now announced the official release date for the Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare Supremacy DLC pack. 
The Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare Supremacy DLC pack will be available first on Xbox One and Xbox 360 from June 3rd. Other platforms will follow roughly a month later. 
Four new multiplayer maps will be available for you in the Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare Supremacy DLC pack. One map is called "Highrise" and is a futuristic remake of the same map featured in Modern Warfare 2. 
Another addition to the DLC includes another chapter in the Exo Zombies saga called "Carrier". Again, a host of Hollywood stars are in this DLC including the likes of Bruce Campbell, John Malkovich, Rose McGowan, Bill Paxton and more. 
Here's more information on the four new multiplayer maps:
Parliament: Docked on the River Thames, this military cargo ship delivers a view of the London cityscape along with a fast-paced combat experience. Mixed site-lines provide opportunities for all styles of play to dominate this medium-sized map. Players can take control of the map-based scorestreak to unleash a barrage of missiles that annihilate enemies.
Kremlin: Gamers must prepare for intense combat outside Russia’s presidential palace in the new map Kremlin, as they navigate the worn-torn buildings of Red Square in this medium-sized, three-lane map. Secure elevated positions to give the team a strategic advantage, or use exoskeleton capabilities to avoid being caught in the minefield that activates mid-match.
Compound: Players take combat preparation to the limit in an Atlas training facility hidden away in the Colorado wilderness, as they’ll have to be quick on the trigger in this small, symmetrical map, which funnels high-speed combat through tight corners to the main tower structures.
 
 
Stay up-to-date!
Get our top stories in your inbox by joining our email newsletter community.
Newsletters
Get our top stories in your inbox by joining our email newsletter community.
bizEDGE - News Alerts
NetGuide - News Alerts
Web Awards Voters
Dedicated Servers powered by HD
>

