life and business insurance right now!
Android Auto debuts in Hyundai Sonata
Wed, 27 May 2015 6:12 AM
Share
Android Auto in the 2015 Hyundai Sonata. Credit: AFP-Relaxnews    
All new Hyundai Sonatas — those sold in the US, at first, anyway — with a navigation system will come with Google's smartphone-mirroring technology on board as standard.
And what's more, any existing owners of a 2015 Sonata can also activate Android Auto via a free software update.
Like Apple's Car Play, Google's Android Auto brings the best and most useful features of a smartphone safely to a car's dashboard including navigation, access to the music library, hands-free calling and turn-by-turn navigation.
Despite a huge fanfare, car companies have so far struggled to bring either Apple's or Google's systems to their production models, partly because they have been trying to develop in-car systems that support both technologies.
The first — and so far only — production car to go on sale with Apple Car Play pre-installed was the Ferrari FF, and the Italian supercar firm has committed to bringing the technology to all of its future cars as it rolls out of its state-of-the-art production facility.
Meanwhile, mass-market manufacturers including Mercedes-Benz and Volkswagen have committed to supporting both platforms, plus the MirrorLink system, which mates and mirrors content from any smartphone to a car's infotainment display.
AFP-Relaxnews
Please Note
By commenting on this article, you are agreeing to the Terms and Conditions of the iafrica.com comments system.
Your Daily News
Get daily local and international News, Sport  and Business highlights to your inbox.
The Tech Set
Tech savvy geeks and normal peeps chomp at the bits (pun intended) for their weekly fix!
The Spotlight
All the hottest Entertainment News from around the globe in your inbox every week.
The Good Life
Get your weekly Lifestyle highlights sent straight to your inbox.
Go Full Throttle!
Rev those engines and subscribe to the Full Throttle weekly motoring newsletter.
Travel Bug!
All the latest Travel News in your inbox every week.
Do you wish to receive promotions from our partners?

