Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Florida GOP Sen. Marco Rubio's decision whether to run for president is the first of several developments that could significantly reshape Florida's political landscape.
Post to Facebook
Sen. Rubio decision will set political scramble in place Florida GOP Sen. Marco Rubio's decision whether to run for president is the first of several developments that could significantly reshape Florida's political landscape. Check out this story on floridatoday.com: http://on.flatoday.com/1FujaSO
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Ledyard King, FLORIDA TODAY 2:12 p.m. EDT April 4, 2015
U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida speaks to residents Hollis, New Hampshire.
(Photo: AP File)
WASHINGTON – Florida GOP Sen. Marco Rubio's likely decision to run for president is the first of several developments over the next three years that could significantly reshape Florida's political landscape.
If Rubio runs for the White House, the spirited scramble for his seat likely would trigger decisions by other politicians looking to move up the food chain.
Democrats said to be eyeing Rubio's seat include Reps. Patrick Murphy and Alan Grayson as well as Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer. On the Republican side, state Chief Financial Officer Jeff Atwater is said to be interested.
Murphy is the only major candidate to announce so far.
But plenty of others could follow suit — or wait until 2018, when Gov. Rick Scott's seat will be open due to term limits and Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson is up for re-election. Term limits also will force out Attorney General Pam Bondi, Agriculture Secretary Adam Putnam and Atwater in 2018, creating still more possibilities.
Bondi and Putnam seem more likely to try for the governor's mansion than a Senate seat. Atwater could be among their competitors if he loses a Senate bid or decides he doesn't want to go to Capitol Hill. Former Florida House Speaker Will Weatherford also has been mentioned as a possible gubernatorial candidate.
Freshman Democratic congresswoman Gwen Graham of Tallahassee could emerge as a frontrunner for governor if she wins a second term in a toss-up congressional district.
Who goes for what and when depends on many factors, including whether potential candidates believe that running in a presidential election year (2016) would be better than running in 2018. Another variable is whether Nelson, Florida's only Democrat elected statewide, steps down after his third term.
Nelson, who turns 76 in 2018, has sent out a fundraising letter  this year. But he may not want to run if he thinks Democrats won't be back in charge of the Senate.
"This is like the ultimate jigsaw puzzle — figuring out '16 versus '18, and Senate versus president versus governor," said Susan MacManus, a political science professor at the University of South Florida. "Everybody's doing the calculations right now. Anyone who has pent-up desire to be any of these is taking a close look."
Fla. voters support negotiation with Iran
Sen. Marco Rubio has a been a strident critic of President Barack Obama's decision to negotiate with Iran over its nuclear program, but Sunshine State voters don't seem to share the Republican's point of view.
A new poll by Quinnipiac University finds voters favor negotiations with Iran rather than military action (71 percent to 18 percent). By a 63-26 percent margin, they also back a settlement with Iran that would lift sanctions in return for restrictions on the country's nuclear program.
In addition, 55 percent of those surveyed said 47 Republicans (including Rubio) acted inappropriately in writing a letter to Iran's leaders last month urging them not to sign off on the deal then being negotiated. The letter noted that a future president could reverse any agreement reached with Obama.
The phone survey of 1,087 Florida voters was conducted March 17-28, prior to the Obama's announcement Thursday that a framework agreement with Iran had been reached. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Rubio immediately slammed the preliminary agreement as a "colossal mistake," saying it would allow Iran to maintain enough of its nuclear program to ultimately develop a weapon.
"I intend to work with my colleagues to continue to ensure that any final agreement, if reached, is reviewed by Congress and that additional sanctions continue to be imposed on Iran until it completely gives up its nuclear ambitions and the regime changes its destructive behavior," Rubio said in a statement issued Thursday.
Florida voters agree with Rubio by a 65-23 percent margin that any agreement should be subject to congressional approval.
Presidential party victor usually wins Senate
Next year's GOP nominee for the U.S. Senate is almost certainly hoping that former Gov. Jeb Bush or Sen. Marco Rubio makes it onto the party's national ticket that year.
Political analysts say a Floridian presidential or vice-presidential nominee would boost — at least slightly — the party's chances of winning the nation's largest swing state. And if the GOP wins the presidential race in the state, the Republican nominee for Rubio's seat would likely win as well.
At least that's what history suggests, according to the University of Minnesota's Smart Politics blog.
Of the 19 election cycles in Florida since 1916 (when voters began electing senators directly) that featured both a presidential and a Senate race, the party whose nominee captured the state's presidential race also won the Senate seat 15 times. That's a success rate of about 79 percent.
The only times Florida voters "split the ticket" were in 1928 (Republican Herbert Hoover and Democrat Park Trammell), 1956 (Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower and Democrat Park Trammell), 1992 (Republican George H.W. Bush and Democrat Bob Graham), and 2000 (Republican George W. Bush and Democrat Bill Nelson).
Contact Ledyard King at lking@gannett.com ; Twitter: @ledgeking
More Stories

