By Sam Penrod
 
Having trouble viewing the video? Try disabling any ad blocking extensions currently running on your browser.
6PM: General conference preview: focus on family, service and Easter
5PM: General conference preview: focus on family, service and Easter
SALT LAKE CITY — President Obama’s brief trip to Utah included a meeting with some of the top leaders of the LDS Church. There was a 20-minute meeting in the conference room of the president’s hotel wherein church leaders and Obama discussed a wide range of topics during the courtesy visit. Their conversation included some themes that may be heard over the pulpit during conference weekend.
President Henry B. Eyring and President Dieter F. Uchtdorf of the First Presidency, accompanied by Elder L. Tom Perry and Elder D. Todd Christofferson of the Quorum of the Twelve, visited with the president at approximately 9:30 Thursday evening.
According to a church statement, the meeting focused on the need for strong families for the benefit of society.
The president is also said to have expressed thanks to the church leaders for their efforts with disaster relief and humanitarian work. He also expressed his appreciation for the church’s effort to find balance by supporting the recent non-discrimination and religious freedom bill in the Utah Legislature that is now law.
At the Conference Center Friday, crews are putting the final touches on the grounds in preparation for the gathering of 100,000 people on Saturday and Sunday.
The first session of the conference was last weekend’s general women’s meeting that focused on themes of family and service, topics that will likely be discussed again, in addition to Easter-centric discourse.
It just is a place where we can be lifted up and hear the prophet and all the general authorities who have messages for us.
–Melissa Rozsa
John Owen of St. George is attending conference for the first time in person. “I brought my son, my dad will join us, so there will be three generations going to priesthood session,” said Owen.
Melissa Rozsa is visiting from Los Angeles and said she has been looking forward to general conference for months.
“I am focusing on myself and how I can make my life better, make changes in my life,” Rozsa said. “It just is a place where we can be lifted up and hear the prophet and all the general authorities who have messages for us.”
The general sessions of the conference will be broadcast live on KSL both Saturday and Sunday at the 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. time slots. There will be continued coverage of the conference in the newscasts and online throughout the weekend. Please visit KSL.com’s general conference page for additional content.
KSL's Children's Television Programming Reports, as well as its FCC public inspection file, are available for viewing during regular office hours at the KSL Broadcast House or online .
The station representative who can assist a person with disabilities with issues related to the content of the public files is Mike Dowdle, available during regular office hours at closed_captioning@ksl.com and (801) 575-5555.

