Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Ex-prosecutor who claims Christie had allies' charges dropped continues fight for records
-38f397b09c1dbc97.jpg
Ben Barlyn says he was fired from his position as a Hunterdon County prosecutor because he refused to drop a case against a Chris Christie ally. (Star-Ledger file photo)
TRENTON — The legal battle over whether a former Hunterdon County assistant prosecutor was fired for objecting to the dismissal of indictments against supporters of Gov. Chris Christie was back in court Friday.
As part of his whistleblower lawsuit against the state, Bennett Barlyn is seeking access to sealed grand jury transcripts related to the indictments that he says will help confirm his allegations that he was ousted for political reasons in 2010.
A state appeals panel denied Barlyn access to the documents last May but said he could continue his fight if he can show more evidence that he needs them.
The state has argued that grand jury records are usually kept secret to protect witnesses and others involved in criminal cases.
But Robert Lytle, Barlyn's attorney, told state Superior Court Judge Douglas H. Hurd in Trenton on Friday that the documents should be released to his clients because the three officials who were indicted in the matter were granted access to them. Lytle said the appellate panel didn't know that when it made its decision not to give the records to Barlyn last year.
"The people with the greatest motive to retaliate against grand jury witnesses know not only the identity but the testimony of those witnesses," the attorney argued. "What more chilling effect could there be on grand jury secrecy?"
Peter Torcicollo, the attorney representing the state, said releasing the records would be wrong.
"There is no need to drag those people through the mud all over again with allegations that have already been dismissed by Attorney General's office," said Torcicollo, an attorney with the powerful law firm Gibbons P.C.
The issue dates to 2010, when a Hunterdon County grand jury handed up indictments charging former Hunterdon County Sheriff Deborah Trout, former Undersheriff Michael Russo, and former Sheriff's Investigator John Falat Jr. with official misconduct and other crimes.
But soon, the state Attorney General's Office, led then by Paula Dow, intervened by assuming control of the prosecution and successfully moving to have the grand jury indictments thrown out by claiming they were "legal and factual discrepancies."
Trout is an acquaintance of Lt. Gov. Kim Guadagno and worked on Christie's first gubernatorial campaign, according to court papers.
Christie has denied any involvement in the case.
Barlyn claims he fired that year after raising concern about the dismissal. The state said he was dismissed for "legitimate business reasons."
In February, Barlyn said he spoke about the case with federal authorities who are investigating Christie's administration in the wake of the George Washington Bridge scandal.
Hurd said Friday that his goal is to "get (the case) moving" because it has already lasted years.
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for your subscription!
To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Political Viewpoints
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

