About 7,200 special operations positions have been opened up to women.
Men who work in U.S. special operations do not think women are able to perform the same tasks they are both physically and mentally, according to data from surveys. Some women in the field also share this opinion.
The Hill reported Monday the surveys were part of the Defense Department’s effort to normalize women into all combat jobs by 2016–or give valid reasons why they should not be opened up to them.
Surveys were conducted by U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM), according to The Associated Press , which first reported on the story. The primary survey was distributed to 18,000 people who currently serve in SOCOM out of a total of 68,000 who are currently in the command. The AP noted 50 percent returned the surveys, a high rate of return indicating a large interest in the topic.
Advertisement-content continues below
Dan Bland, management director for SOCOM, expressed concern to the AP that survey results “already driven us to do some different things in terms of educating the force.” Bland’s colleague Andy Hamilton noted women too had concerns about integration: “They’re concerned that this might result in the lowering of the standards in what are currently our male-only occupations, and that would then reflect on either them or on the women who come into those occupations.”
About 7,200 special operations positions have been opened up to women. A woman last year for the first time completed training and became a pilot in the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment, otherwise known as the “Night Stalkers.” Three more women are currently going through the training.
Head of SOCOM Gen. Joseph Votel, in an email to the special operations community, indicated he would be looking at “social and cultural challenges” of making women an everyday part of combat life.
Advertisement-content continues below
“We will continue in our commitment to provide the best manned, trained, and equipped special operations personnel to execute our nation’s most difficult and sensitive missions,” Votel said. “With that in mind, we can assure you that our high standards will not be lowered.”
Don't Miss Out. Subscribe By Email Or Facebook
Email
Email*
Facebook
Comments
comments
About the Author James Beattie
James is a reporter for Western Journalism.  Originally from northern New Jersey, James comes to Western with a wide variety of experiences that include but are certainly not limited to: answering 911 calls, exploring the mighty Adirondacks, running for public office in his hometown, and working as a former radio producer.  He is an Eagle Scout.  He has also lived in the Washington, DC area, and attends St. Rose Philippine Duchesne R.C. Church in Anthem, AZ.  James is a longtime fan of the New Jersey Devils, New York Mets, New York Giants, and a recent fan of Tottenham Hotspur.
Don’t Miss Out Ever. Subscribe To Get It First
Email
Email*
Facebook
Trending

