By Sean Krainert , National Monitor | April 06, 2015
Money has been raised to support Washington state florist who was fined $1000 for refusing service to a same-sex couple
The Washington state florist who was fined for refusing service to a gay couple for their wedding is now collecting on donations from her supporters online.
An online account at a GoFundMe page was set up for the florist after she had been fined for violating consumer protection laws.
The fundraiser in support of Stutzman and her business has raised almost $90,000, with a majority coming in within a 24 hour period, according to the Los Angeles Times .
The page was set up by Tom Savage, a friend of Stutzman, who on the page wrote that his friend “may lose her business, her home, and her savings – because she stood for her faith.”
The business owner, Barronelle Stutzman, was required to pay a $1,000 fine in result of the lawsuit against her that was filed by the state’s attorney general. The argument successfully proved that Stutzman violated consumer protection laws that specifically prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation.
Recently, the new Religious Freedom Restoration Act in Indiana has been highly criticized for supporting business owners that want to deliberately discriminate against same-sex couples. But due to pressure from activists as well as business owners and the media, a subsequent law was passed to clarify that discrimination was indeed not permitted within the constraints of the law.
Also within the scope of the situation, Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson backed off from a bill he originally pledged to sign and declared support in the opposite direction urging a federal law barring governments from infringing on religious practices.
Stutzman argued in court that she could not arrange flowers for same-sex weddings or allow any of her staff to do so either because her Southern Baptist traditions prohibited them from doing so.
The couple, Robert Ingersoll and Curt Freed, had spent thousands of dollars in purchasing flowers from Stutzman for almost a decade when they decided to ask her to do all of the arrangements for their 2013 wedding.
The money raised for Stutzman and her business is not the first of its kind. Over $800,000 was raised for an Indiana pizzeria owner. The owner publicly announced that their business would refuse any requests to cater to a same-sex couple for a wedding because it was not in accordance with their faith.
Neither Stutzman nor Savage would respond to requests for comment over the fundraiser.
Have something to say? Let us know in the comments section or send an email to the author. You can share ideas for stories by contacting us here.
Comments
Copyright           2015          by National Monitor, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

