Welcome Back!
Thanks for being a frequent visitor to tucson.com. You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.
Thank you for reading and relying on tucson.com for your news and information. You have now viewed your 30-day allowance of FREE pages. Want to read more?
Also
Also
Also
Also
Tradition involves children using wooden spoons to push eggs a short distance.
Also
Also
Also
Saved
2 hours ago  •  By BRIAN WITTE
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) — Gov. Larry Hogan and Maryland House Speaker Michael Busch have met to talk about the governor's legislative agenda.
David Brinkley, the Republican governor's budget secretary, said they had a good conversation Tuesday, though no assurances were given by the speaker. Brinkley says there's still time to make progress.
Hogan isn't happy about the lack of progress on his tax-relief proposals. His push to provide tax credits for businesses that donate to private schools also is a tough sell in the House of Delegates
The speaker, a Democrat, says he talked candidly about difficulties some of the governor's proposals face in the House, though he did not elaborate.
The Legislature has restored funding to education and state employee pay to the budget. However, Hogan still would need to approve the funds.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Head to www.earthshealing.org and download our new app to your…
Bellevue Gardens Apartments
Troops Aluminum Inc has been providing aluminum gutters and mo…
Email:
Business News
Obituaries
Receive the current day's weather forecast in your email!
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Services
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with tucson.com account:
Username & Password Required!

