RAPID CITY | Black Hills Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Bruce Knowles, will conclude its 80th season with a concert featuring Beet…
Recent
Saved
42 minutes ago  •  By ASTRID GALVAN
TUCSON, Ariz. (AP) — Only about a third of the young immigrants who became eligible three months ago for an Arizona driver's license after a lengthy legal battle have obtained one, according to state data.
The immigrants, often referred to as DREAMers, are part of a federal program that shields them from deportation and gives them a Social Security number and work permit for two years.
President Barack Obama created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, in 2012 for young people who had been brought to the United States illegally as children. A similar program that would benefit parents of U.S.-citizen children is on hold pending a federal lawsuit.
Young immigrants in Arizona have been able to apply for a driver's license since late December, when U.S. District Judge David Campbell issued a preliminary injunction against an Arizona policy that denied DACA participants driver's licenses. Campbell made the injunction permanent in January, but the state is appealing the ruling.
Nearly 20,000 people in the program are eligible for a license in Arizona, but only about 6,700 of them obtained one between Dec. 30 and March 20, according to figures from the Arizona Department of Transportation.
Dream Act Coalition co-director Erika Andiola, an immigration activist who received her license last month, said a lack of information about who qualifies for a driver's license is partly to blame.
"It was a very confusing time for people because the lawsuit was very confusing. Now it's about awareness," she said.
Andiola said her two-year work permit had lapsed and she had to wait until it was renewed before applying.
"It's actually starting to feel like a relief because I have gotten tickets before, because I had to drive," she said.
Department of Transportation spokesman Ryan Harding said seven Motor Vehicle Division offices have seen the vast majority of DACA participants, including one in west Phoenix where about half have gotten their licenses.
Former Gov. Jan Brewer waged a legal battle over the program, saying she was concerned about the risk of licenses being used improperly to access public benefits. But the state's legal efforts have been unsuccessful, and on Dec. 22 dozens of immigrants lined up at Motor Vehicle Division offices to get a driver's license.
___
Associated Press writer Jim Anderson in Colorado contributed to this story.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Poll
Loading…
This year's mountain lion kills fell well short of the 75 limit; only 43 lions were killed this year. Do you think the state should lower the limit?
Yes, the lower number killed is indicative of a decreasing population
No, weather conditions were not ideal for hunting this year. The number killed has nothing to do with the population.
Sean Ryan
I don’ shoot that many silhouettes, because they are tough to make into compelling news images. They can make some really nice images to look …
1 hour ago (0)
Bob Mercer Journal corespondent
State Sen. Phil Jensen, R-Rapid City, asked state Attorney General Marty Jackley for an official opinion on the legality of the state Board of…
When Spearfish inventor Bob Meyer was explaining how his dental vacuum system worked, I was starting to worry about how I could take his portr…
April 02, 2015 2:30 pm (1)
Bob Mercer Journal corespondent
SDDOT reports S.D. 20 will remain closed between Buffalo and Reva through 12 p.m. MDT Friday because of a grassfire. The conditions website is…
April 02, 2015 8:13 am (0)
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with rapidcityjournal.com account:
Username & Password Required!

