Siena poll: Incumbents get pass amid corruption scandals
Despite legal, ethical woes facing state lawmakers, most incumbents get a pass
Matthew Hamilto, Times Union
Albany
Almost all voters agree that government corruption is pervasive in New York. And nearly two-thirds think corruption among lawmakers from their area is a serious problem.
But that doesn't mean they're ready to dump their local officials over alleged shady business at the state Capitol .
A new Siena College poll released Tuesday shows that while 90 percent of voters statewide think corruption is a serious problem and 62 percent say it's serious among their legislators, only 37 percent said they're less likely to re-elect their representatives because of recent scandals that have rocked Albany.
Overall, 49 percent of voters said the scandals won't affect their votes come 2016, while 11 percent said they're actually more likely to re-elect their incumbent legislators.
Seventy-two percent said they would be more likely to vote in an effort to be part of the solution to government corruption, while 16 percent said scandal doesn't have them fired up to hit the polls.
Whether voters follow through won't be answered for another 16 months.
"If we would have gone into the field and done a poll the day after Election Day last year and asked voters, 'Did you vote yesterday?' we would not have seen that 40-some-odd percent said yes and the rest said no — which was the actual turnout," Siena spokesman Steve Greenberg said. "What we would have found was that 60 or 70 or 80 percent of voters would have said, 'Of course I voted yesterday.' Voters don't like to admit that they don't vote."
The results come just weeks after Sen. Dean Skelos abandoned his Republican leadership post following his arrest on federal corruption charges. Skelos' arrest not only marked another downfall in the scandal-scarred recent history of Senate majority leaders (the last five have been charged with some sort of wrongdoing), but it made history as the first time in memory that legislative leaders from both houses have been arrested in a single year.
Former Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was arrested in January on corruption charges. Both men have pleaded innocence.
The poll shows a cynical view of their arrests: Fifty-five percent of voters said the downfall of both men won't move the needle on corruption, while 35 percent said they should help clean things up.
On the man who has spearheaded the cases against Skelos and Silver, voters appear to be scratching their heads. Seventy-one percent of voters said they haven't a clue who U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara is. Of those who do, 18 percent view him favorably.
The poll was of 695 registered voters statewide. The margin of error is 3.7 percent.

