Sponsored By
April 8, 2015 11:10 AM
WASHINGTON — An aging energy infrastructure and workforce could mean that widespread power outages like Tuesday’s , which affected the White House, the Capitol and thousands of other customers throughout Maryland and D.C., could become more and more prevalent.
Tom Willie is the CEO of Blue Pillar , a company that provides energy management solutions for facilities.
“I believe things are going to get worse, not better,” Willie says. “Certainly a glimpse of that was seen yesterday in Washington, but we’re seeing this all over the U.S.”
Blue Pillar has offices in Frederick, Maryland and Indianapolis.
Power companies “have several things working against them,” according to Willie.
First, “the electric grid could be recognized by Thomas Edison, if he came back from the grave, he would notice it immediately and it would look exactly the same as what he built.”
The aging infrastructure is accompanied by an aging workforce.
“Ten years ago… they were saying that upwards of 50 percent of the utility linemen and workforce would retire over the next 10 to 15 years,” Willie says.
“That’s why a lot of these organizations… actually follow storms and go to work in areas that are hit by disasters, because there are simply not enough of them to maintain their geographic areas at any given time.”
Willie recommends that customers start protecting themselves against interruptions, instead of relying on utility companies.
“There are technologies out there, there are solutions out there in the marketplace now that allow for facilities to protect themselves,” he says.
“Instead of relying on the utility to fundamentally fix their issues, which it appears that they’ve been challenged to do over the course of the last 20 years, it’s time for the facilities to take matters into their own hands and do the things that they need to do to protect themselves from these events.”
One facility where Tuesday’s outage was barely noticed? The White House, according to press secretary Josh Earnest.
“The White House, which obviously had invested in systems that maintain power through a critical event like we saw yesterday, ran without a blip, largely,” Willie says.
“Although they knew they were running on backup power and supporting power solutions, they ran seamlessly through this outage.”
Meanwhile, “the organizations that had not made that investment… clearly did not have that same experience.”
“It’s time that more and more facilities start to go down that path, we believe.”
Other CBS Local Cities
©2015 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.

