Herpes-based drug 'cures' patients of skin cancer
The new therapy has far fewer side effects because it is harnassing the body's    own immune system
Genetically engineering the herpes virus so that it attacks skin cancer cells has potentially cured some patients, scientists have said Photo: Wellcome Collection
By Sarah Knapton , Science Editor
8:35AM BST 27 May 2015
A genetically engineered virus has ‘cured’ patients of cancer for the first time in a breakthrough which raises hopes of an end to chemotherapy.
In a worldwide study which was led by the Institute of Cancer Research in the UK, scientists showed that the new treatment allowed some patients with skin cancer to live for more than three years – the benchmark many oncologists use to define a cure.
The therapy – called T-VEC - works by infecting and killing cancer cells while also sparking the immune system into action against tumours.
Currently most cancers are treated with using invasive chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery, all of which carry the risk of further harm.
The new therapy has far fewer side effects and does not damage healthy tissue or cells.
While the breakthrough came in skin cancer patients, scientists said it raises hopes that the same process could be used for other cancers.
Charities said the development was ‘exciting’ and offered new hope to many patients.
“Patients showing responses beyond three years is something that up until now, we could only have imagined,” said Gillian Nuttall, Founder of Melanoma UK.
Malignant melanoma is the fifth most common cancer in the UK, with more than 13,000 diagnosed each year. It kills more than 2,000 people each year.
Professor Paul Workman, Chief Executive of The Institute of Cancer Research, London, said: “We may normally think of viruses as the enemies of mankind, but it’s their very ability to specifically infect and kill human cells that can make them such promising cancer treatments.
“In this case we are harnessing the ability of an engineered virus to kill cancer cells and stimulate an immune response.”
The clinical trials, which have been ongoing for more than three years, have been conducted in 64 centres across the UK, US, Canada and South Africa.
The results show that 163 patients with stage three and early stage four melanoma who were treated with T-VEC lived for an average of 41 months. That was compared with an average survival of 21.5 months for 66 patients who were given the current best immunotherapy drugs.
And the response was most pronounced in patients with less advanced cancers, underlining the potential benefit as a first-line treatment for metastatic cancers which cannot be surgically removed.
T-VEC is a modified form of herpes virus which multiplies inside cancer cells and bursts them from within. It has been genetically engineered to produce a molecule called GM-CSF, which stimulates the immune system to attack and destroy the tumour.
It has also been modified to remove two key genes so that it can’t replicate within healthy cells. Normal cells detect and destroy T-VEC before it can cause damage – but it replicates easily in cancer cells because their infection defences are compromised by genetic errors.
It is one of a new wave of virus-based drugs to show benefits in cancer trials, and is now the first to do so in a major randomised, controlled phase III trial.
“There is increasing excitement over the use of viral treatments like T-VEC for cancer, because they can launch a two-pronged attack on tumours – both killing cancer cells directly and marshalling the immune system against them,” said Prof Kevin Harrington, Professor of Biological Cancer Therapies at The Institute of Cancer Research.
“Because viral treatment can target cancer cells specifically, it tends to have fewer side-effects than traditional chemotherapy or some of the other new immunotherapies.
Dr Hayley Frend, science information manager at Cancer Research UK, said: “Using a virus to both kill cancer cells and nudge the immune system into attacking them is exciting.
“Previous studies have shown T-VEC could benefit some people with advanced skin cancer but this is the first study to prove an increase in survival. The next step will be to understand why only some patients respond to T-VEC, in order to help better identify which patients might benefit from it.”
The research was also welcomed by British academics who said the results were ‘very promising.’
Prof Leonard Seymour, Professor of Gene Therapies, University of Oxford, said: “This T-Vec study shows powerful stimulus of an anticancer immune response in patients with melanoma skin cancer.
“Increasingly we understand that cancer is characterised by suppression of the immune system within tumour deposits, meaning that cancer vaccines have struggled to create useful responses.
“However T-VEC appears to be able to overcome this suppression. At this stage it’s very promising that this appears to have positive results for melanoma skin cancer.”
Muzlifah Haniff, senior lecturer Senior Lecturer and Honorary Consultant Dermatologist at Newcastle University added: “This study reports another treatment strategy based on harnessing the power of our immune system to destroy melanoma, offering new hope to many patients.”
The trial was funded by the manufacturer of T-VEC, Amgen, and is published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology.
Top news galleries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Most Read in What's On
Top News
Most Read in News
Top News
Most Read in Football
Top Sport
Most Read in Sport
Top Celebs
Most Read in Celebs
A GENETICALLY engineered herpes virus has been shown to halt the spread of skin cancer by kick-starting the immune system into action against tumours.
Herpes virus
A GENETICALLY-modified cold sore virus could be be made available as a game-changing new treatment for deadly skin cancer within a year, scientists claim.
Extraordinary results from a Phase III trial involving patients with aggressive, inoperable disease have shown that the therapy can eradicate tumours and halt their growth.
The unique treatment combines a direct targeted attack on cancer cells with an immunotherapy approach that primes the body's own defences to combat the disease.
Of the 26% of patients who responded to the herpes virus treatment, known as T-Vec, one in 10 saw their tumours vanish without trace.
Another 16% of responding patients experienced a "partial remission" that reduced the size of their tumours by more than 50%.
Professor Kevin Harrington, from the Institute of Cancer Research in London, led the international Phase III trial conducted in the UK, US, Canada and South Africa.
He said: "It's not an exaggeration to say this is a first-in-class agent, an entirely new type of anti-cancer treatment.
"There will have to be discussions about cost effectiveness but we hope to see this agent receive approval in about the next 12 months, making it possible to prescribe it for cancer."
T-Vec is one of a new generation of virus-based drugs in development and the first to show real potential in a major Phase III trial, the last step before a new medicine is licensed and made available to patients.
It contains the same herpes simplex type-1 virus that causes cold sores, genetically engineered to make it harmless to patients but lethal to cancer.
The virus is unable to multiply in healthy skin cells but finds fertile ground for growth in tumour cells. Eventually the virus proliferates to such an extent that it literally explodes out of the cancer cells, destroying them.
At the same time, the GM virus produces a molecule called GM-CSF which acts as a potent immune system stimulator.
This has the effect of priming the immune system to recognise and attack tumour proteins left in the debris of the obliterated cancer cells. Thereafter the immune system continues to target the same proteins when they are "flagged up" by returning cancer, providing protection against the disease.
How long the immunity lasts is not known, but some patients have remained in remission - either cancer free or experiencing no further tumour growth - for as long as three years.
Prof Harrington said: "There is increasing excitement over the use of viral treatments like T-Vec for cancer, because they can launch a two-pronged attack on tumours - both killing cancer cells directly and marshalling the immune system against them.
"And because viral treatment can target cancer cells specifically, it tends to have fewer side-effects than traditional chemotherapy or some of the other new immunotherapies."
Findings from the trial, funded by US biopharmaceutical company Amgen, which manufactures T-Vec, are reported in the Journal of Clinical Oncology.
A total of 436 patients with aggressive, inoperable malignant melanoma were recruited, of which 295 received injections of T-Vec.
The remaining "control" patients were not given the virus but treated with the immunotherapy molecule GM-CSF.
Overall, 26% of patients in the T-Vec arm and 6% of those in the control arm responded to treatment.
Of those responding to T-Vec, 16.3% showed a "durable response" lasting more than six months. This compared with 2.1% of patients responding to the control therapy.
Patients with earlier stage disease who were given T-Vec as their first treatment also experienced a significant survival benefit, living an average of 41 months. This compared with a survival time of around 21.5 months for earlier-stage patients given GM-CSF.
EU drug regulator the European Medicines Agency is looking at the trial results and is expected to deliver its initial verdict on T-Vec later this year.
The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) in the US issued a "favourable opinion" of the treatment in April.
Professor Paul Workman, chief executive of The Institute of Cancer Research, said: "We may normally think of viruses as the enemies of mankind, but it's their very ability to specifically infect and kill human cells that can make them such promising cancer treatments.
"In this case we are harnessing the ability of an engineered virus to kill cancer cells and stimulate an immune response. It's exciting to see the potential of viral treatment realised in a Phase III trial, and there is hope that therapies like this could be even more effective when combined with targeted cancer drugs to achieve long-term control and cure."
Each year around 13,300 people in the UK are diagnosed with malignant melanoma and 2,148 people die from the disease, according to the latest official figures.
Gillian Nuttall, from the charity Melanoma UK, said: "This promising news will be greatly received by the melanoma community, patients and clinicians alike. Patients showing responses beyond three years is something that up until now, we could only have imagined."
Scientists hope T-Vec may also show promise in the treatment of other cancers, notably head-and-neck cancers, pancreatic cancer, bladder cancer, lung cancer and liver cancer.
Currently T-Vec has to be injected into tumours, but in future it or other similar drugs may be adapted to be effective when carried around the body in the bloodstream.
Gene therapy expert Professor Leonard Seymour, from Oxford University, said: "This T-Vec study shows powerful stimulus of an anti-cancer immune response in patients with melanoma skin cancer ...
"The next step will be to develop oncolytic virus vaccines that can be given intravenously to reach all metastatic tumour deposits, allowing the same vaccine effects in all tumour growths.
"At this stage it's very promising that this appears to have positive results for melanoma skin cancer, but we need further research to see whether it could be relevant to other cancers too."
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:
Previous Articles

