First Published 5 hours ago    •    Updated 1 hour ago
(LDS Church courtesy photo) President Thomas S. Monson announces three new temples at the Sunday morning session of LDS General Conference, April 5, 2015. © 2015 by Intellectual Reserve, Inc. All rights reserved.
(LDS Church courtesy photo) President Thomas S. Monson announces three new temples at the Sunday morning session of LDS General Conference, April 5, 2015. © 2015 by Intellectual Reserve, Inc. All rights reserved.
ARTICLE PHOTO GALLERY (2)
Unlike Saturday's sessions of General Conference, Mormons didn't have to wait long Sunday to hear LDS Church President Thomas S. Monson speak.
And the Mormon leader  didn't wait long to make news, either.
Delivering the opening address at the Easter morning service, the 87-year-old leader announced plans to build three new LDS temples — in Bangkok, Thailand; Abidjan, Ivory Coast; and Port-au-Prince, Haiti.
In his short sermon Sunday, Monson discussed the value of the faith's temples.
In his seven years as church president, among his most "enjoyable and sacred" responsibilities, he said, has been the chance to dedicate and rededicate temples.
TOP JOBS
VIDEOS
The building of temples, Monson said, "is a very clear indication of the growth of the church."
As Mormons reflect on the covenants they make in the temple,  they "will be better able to overcome ... temptations and to bear our trials," he said. "In the temple we can find peace."
The blessings of the temple "are priceless," he said. " ... May our Heavenly Father bless us that we may have the spirit of temple worship, that we may be obedient to his commandments, and that we may follow carefully the steps of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ."
On Saturday morning, Monson skipped his customary welcome and didn't address the conference until the evening all-male priesthood session. He did attend — and preside at — all six   sessions of the spring gathering.
Ivory Coast's 20 million people includes more than 22,000 Mormons, according to an LDS Church news release. Haiti, with 10 million, has more than 19,000 Latter-day Saints.
The Bangkok edifice will be the first LDS temple in Thailand, which has about 18,000 Mormons, says the release. Right now, members there must travel more than 1,000 miles, to Hong Kong, to reach the closest LDS temple.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has 144 operating temples worldwide. Another 29 have either been announced or are under construction.
Public tours of the Payson temple, the faith's 15th in Utah, are scheduled to begin April 24. The building's dedication is set for June 7.
Mormons view temples as houses of God, places they take part in their faith's highest sacraments, including eternal marriage.
Several other speakers Sunday discussed the Easter events of Christ's suffering in Gethsemane, death on the cross and resurrection from a tomb.
"This is the most sacred day of the year for special remembrance of brotherly hands and determined arms that reached into the abyss of death to save us from our fallings and our failings, from our sorrows and our sins," apostle Jeffrey R. Holland said. " ... Today we celebrate the gift of victory over every fall we have ever experienced, every sorrow we have ever known, every discouragement we have ever had, every fear we have ever faced — to say nothing of our resurrection from death and forgiveness for our sins."
All that Jesus experienced in those three days "constitutes the most important moment, the most singular sacrifice, the most consequential manifestation of divine love ever to be demonstrated in the history of the world," Holland said. " ... Jesus still stands triumphant over death, although he stands on wounded feet. This Easter I thank him and the Father who gave him to us that Jesus still extends to us unending grace, although he extends it with pierced palms and scarred wrists."
 
 
Published April 5, 2015
Published April 5, 2015
Updated Mar 27 2015 02:07 pm   |   0 Comments
Updated Mar 26 2015 12:09 pm   |   0 Comments
Updated Mar 04 2015 12:39 pm   |   0 Comments
Published April 5, 2015

