ago
ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — For-sale signs have been posted outside several properties owned by the Archdiocese of St. Paul and Minneapolis as it…
ago
WIMBERLEY, Texas (AP) — Deadly severe weather over the long holiday weekend tested government alert and evacuation procedures, as officials …
By Levi Ismail Published:
KIMT News 3 – For new mothers unable to breastfeed, it’s the next best thing for their child’s nutrition, but now that’s in short supply from hospitals.
In 2007, more than 70 percent of hospitals offered free packs of baby formula for newborns, now a recent study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found just above 30 percent offer formula for free.
Cost is considered the main culprit, even though most pediatricians suggest mothers breastfeed. Local experts say sometimes, that’s not an option.
“Some people can breastfeed and it’s something they don’t need to go into feeling guilty about. So it’s nice to have the formula available especially if they’re able to get on the WIC program. Then they can at least get some formula to get them to the point when they get their first check from WIC,” said Jo Hafermann, Executive Director of the Caring Pregnancy Center in Mason City.
An estimated one in five women are unable to physically produce their own milk after giving birth. Hafermann says she makes it clear to any of their clients, the benefits of breastfeeding.
Pediatricians across the country, have been pushing for years to encourage more breastfeeding. They say the evidence clearly shows children benefit from being breastfed for at least the first six months of life.
Despite their efforts, the CDC reports that only 19 percent of infants are breastfed for this period of time.
“Parenting is hard enough without a guilt trip on somebody. So if they can’t breastfeed, then we have formula available for them,” said Hafermann.
Several states have attempted to enact laws banning the free handouts, but none have been successful. Some believe however that the pressure from lobbyists will continue to influence hospitals to no longer offer the formula and eventually ban them in the state.
Share this:

