By Aly Seidel April 6 at 6:00 AM
About 35,000 children, their parents, musical performers and celebrity guests are expected to descend upon the South Lawn of the White House on Monday for the 137th Easter Egg Roll.
Families from across the nation are invited to the all-day event hosted by President Obama and first lady Michelle Obama. They will be treated to live music, cooking demonstrations and, of course, the famous egg hunt and egg roll.
This year’s theme is #GimmeFive, challenging Americans to make five healthy lifestyle changes. It’s part of the fifth anniversary celebration for the first lady’s ‘Let’s Move!’ campaign.
Stations will be set up across the South Lawn featuring hands-on training with professional athletes and healthy cooking demonstrations from celebrity chefs such Bobby Flay and Gail Simmons. Girl group Fifth Harmony is scheduled to perform, along with the Broadway cast of Newsies and the “So You Think You Can Dance” All-Stars.
The White House egg roll dates to the 1800s, when local children would roll eggs down the Capitol Hill grounds the Monday after Easter. Annoyed by the growing crowds, Congress passed an act banning the event. In 1878, the children asked President Rutherford B. Hayes to host the egg roll in his back yard. Since then, it has become the largest annual event held at the White House.
This is the seventh year the public has been able to enter into a lottery to win a ticket to the festivities.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

