April 8, 2015    Last updated: Wednesday, April 8, 2015, 1:21 AM
By HERB JACKSON
It is rare for prosecutors to charge a politician with accepting a bribe in the form of a campaign contribution, especially when no one involved in the transaction says the money was a bribe.
So Washington campaign finance lawyers and clean-government advocacy groups took notice when Sen. Bob Menendez and Salomon Melgen, a wealthy Florida retina specialist and the senator's friend, were charged in a conspiracy and bribery indictment that said $783,500 in contributions from Melgen were bribes.
The charges come as the campaign finance landscape has been upended by several recent court rulings that have allowed unlimited donations to outside groups and increased the importance of super PACs. And while the ability of the donors to get money into campaigns has increased, critics have warned that watchdogs like the Federal Election Commission have failed to keep step.
"People are looking at this as though the Justice Department feels it has to step in in the place of the Federal Election Commission and be the primary enforcer, or at least a more assertive enforcer, of campaign finance laws in light of the lack of action by the FEC," said Washington attorney Brett G. Kappel, a specialist in political law whose clients include PACs and super PACs.
But there's a reason similar charges have not happened more often: Bribery is difficult to prove in campaign finance cases without hard evidence that the contribution was given in exchange for a particular action.
"Just because something looks bad or smells bad doesn't mean it's criminal," said Kenneth A. Gross, head of the political law practice at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.
"I'm not about to call our clients and say, 'Don't make political contributions if you lobby somebody,' but certainly there is a concern, I think to some people, with the government even going in this direction of making a political contribution into a bribe," Gross said.
Gross said it could be a sign of things to come because the Supreme Court opened the door in 2010 to unlimited contributions to independent committees.
"I would not be surprised if further examinations were coming down the road because of the sheer amount of money involved," Gross said.
The court rulings that led to unlimited contributions also stated that money spent by independent committees could not corrupt officials, and Menendez's defense team will likely be relying on those cases.
Of all the contributions cited in the indictment, only $40,000 went to a committee that Menendez directly controlled, a fund he created to battle an attempted recall effort. Of the rest, $600,000 went to a super PAC called Majority PAC, and the remainder to state and county Democratic committees in New Jersey in 2012, when Menendez was running for reelection.
Some groups that have criticized court rulings were pleased the government charged Menendez.
"I think politicians everywhere are quaking in their boots," said Melanie Sloan, the former executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, which first called for the Justice Department to investigate Menendez after receiving emails from an anonymous tipster about prostitution allegations that were later disproved.
In most bribery cases, evidence of a quid pro quo comes from an insider, either a government agent working undercover or a corrupt businessperson who pleads guilty and agrees to testify against officials he or she had been bribing.
Melgen and Menendez have pleaded not guilty, however. And rather than citing testimony or emails or wiretaps that show a clear quid pro quo, the indictment focuses on payments that were provided near the time Menendez took official actions to show a pattern that a jury could conclude was evidence of a payoff.
For example, $60,000 was contributed — $20,000 to the legal defense fund and $40,000 to the New Jersey Democratic State Committee — on the same day in May 2012 that Menendez met with an assistant secretary of state for international narcotics and law enforcement affairs.
The topic was the Dominican Republic's refusal to honor a contract held by a company Melgen owned to scan outbound cargo, and Menendez wanted the United States to press the Dominican government about it.
"During the meeting, Menendez questioned the assistant secretary about the contract dispute between Melgen and the Dominican Republic," the indictment said. "Menendez expressed dissatisfaction with [the State Department's] lack of initiative in enforcement of the contract."
Also cited are Menendez's extensive efforts over a matter of years to get Medicare officials to review Melgen's complaint that he was unfairly being required to repay $9 million that the government said he was overpaid for medical care.
On June 1, 2012, Melgen contributed $300,000 to Majority PAC that was earmarked to be spent in New Jersey, where Menendez was seeking reelection. On June 7, Menendez met with Marilyn Tavenner, then the acting administrator of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
"Menendez expressed dissatisfaction with the acting administrator of CMS' answers and stated he would speak directly with the secretary" of Health and Human Services, the indictment said. With the help of Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, Menendez did meet with HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius on Aug. 2, but she also "disagreed with Menendez's position," the indictment said.
Tags:

