2015-04-06 03:42:00
Reuters
Posted:
1 hour ago
Young activists protest domestic violence in 2012. Li Tingting (left) and Wei Tingting (right) have both been detained in Beijing. | Gender Watchina
BEIJING, April 8 (Reuters) - Chinese police are broadening  their investigation into five detained women activists to focus  on their campaigns against domestic violence and for more public  toilets for women, their lawyers said on Wednesday.
The women were taken into custody on the weekend of  International Women's Day, March 8, and later detained on  suspicion of "picking quarrels and provoking trouble," their  lawyers said, a charge that carries jail of up to five years.
Supporters of the five - Li Tingting, 25, Wei Tingting, 26,  Wang Man, 32, Zheng Churan, 25, and Wu Rongrong, 30 - initially  assumed they were picked up because of their plans to  demonstrate against sexual harassment on buses and trains.
But Wang Qiushi, the lawyer for Li Tingting, said the focus  of the investigation was centered on a 2012 campaign to press for  more public toilets for women and a 2013-14 campaign against  domestic violence.
"The initial reason for taking them away was the anti-sexual  harassment bus activity on March 7, but it looks like slapping  them now with a criminal charge for that is obviously very  difficult," Wang said.
The 2012 "Occupy Men's Room" campaign led to four cities  pledging to increase the ratio of toilet cubicles for women, the  state-run China Daily reported.
The "Bloodstained Bride" campaign of 2013-2014 involved  women posing in blood-splattered wedding gowns to draw attention  to violence.
Lu Jun, co-founder of a group that campaigns against  discrimination against women, said men identifying themselves as  Beijing police had gone to various cities to look for women who  participated in an "Occupy Men's Rooms" campaign.
Beijing police did not respond to a request for comment.
The United States, Britain and the European Union have  condemned the detentions, prompting China to call on other  countries to respect its judicial sovereignty.
Asked whether the government was concerned about further  international censure if the women are formally charged, Chinese  Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said: "I don't think  there is any reason to be unhappy about China handling the  relevant case in accordance with the law."
Prosecutors will decide within days whether the women should  be formally arrested or released, the lawyers said.
Prosecutors in Beijing's Haidian district, which has  jurisdiction over the women's cases, said they have not received  their cases from police, according to Liang Xiaojun, a lawyer  for Wu Rongrong. A woman surnamed Wang from the Haidian  prosecutor's office declined comment, saying "their cases have  not reached us."     (Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Robert  Birsel and Jeremy Laurence)
More:
Conversations
Options
WorldPost
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
WorldPost
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
WorldPost
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

