Obama meets with Mormon church leaders, Gov. Herbert during Utah trip
By Thomas Burr, Lee Davidson and Robert Gehrke  The Salt Lake Tribune
First Published Apr 02 2015 02:57PM    •    Updated 53 minutes ago
(Trent Nelson  |  The Salt Lake Tribune)   President Barack Obama meets with leaders of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at the Sheraton Hotel during visit to Utah, Thursday April 2, 2015. Left to right are  Tom Perry, Dieter Uchtdorf, Henry Eyring, Todd Christofferson, and President Obama.
(Trent Nelson  |  The Salt Lake Tribune)   President Barack Obama meets with leaders of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at the Sheraton Hotel during visit to Utah, Thursday April 2, 2015. Left to right are  Tom Perry, Dieter Uchtdorf, Henry Eyring, Todd Christofferson, and President Obama.
Utah governor says he also wants to discuss Medicaid expansion and public lands; Obama meets with LDS Church’s leaders.
ARTICLE PHOTO GALLERY (61)
The leader of the free world met Thursday night with several top leaders of the Mormon world.
Shortly after President Barack Obama landed at Hill Air Force Base, he rode by motorcade to Salt Lake City where he had a private meeting at the Sheraton Hotel with Presidents Henry B. Eyring and Dieter F. Uchtdorf of the First Presidency and apostles L. Tom Perry and D. Todd Christofferson.
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz said, "The President is pleased to meet with top LDS leaders as so many presidents before him have done."
Schultz said they discussed the church's long record of service, including its work on disaster relief and other humanitarian issues, and the need to fix the broken immigration system.
TOP JOBS
VIDEOS
He added they discussed the need to forge more common ground across differences and to promote service to neighbors, both in the United States and around the world.
LDS Church spokesman Eric Hawkins said LDS President Thomas S. Monson, age 87, skipped a meeting with Obama to preserve his strength for the church's General Conference this weekend.
"President Monson remembers fondly his visit to the White House to present President Obama with his personal family history in 2009. Because of the need to preserve his strength for this weekend's General Conference, it was felt that  the logistics of meeting away from Church offices, with the walking and the waiting periods associated with a presidential visit, would regrettably not be conducive to President Monson's participation," he said.
Obama also met with Gov. Gary Herbert, numerous local Democratic leaders and heads of local federal agencies. On Friday, he is scheduled to speak at Hill Air Force Base about clean energy. That event, however, is closed to the public.
Air Force One touched down at Hill Air Force Base at 8:10 p.m. — six years, two months and 13 days after Obama first took office. Utah had been one of only two states that Obama had not yet visited as president. Now only South Dakota remains.
He was greeted there by officials including Gov. Herbert, Lt. Gov. Spencer Cox, Sen. Orrin Hatch and Mike Lee, Salt Lake City Mayor Ralph Becker and Salt Lake County Mayor Ben McAdams.
After greeting dignitaries, the president headed to the rope line where excited military fans snapped pictures and reached for a presidential handshake.
A teenage boy shouted, "We love you Obama" as the president approached the crowd. Everyone was shooting selfies, including a young girl on her father's shoulders.
Obama's arrival was about two and a half hours later than originally scheduled, because big international events delayed the president's trip.
He spent extra time in Washington to announce a framework agreement to limit Iran's nuclear program to block it from developing atomic weapons. Then he headed for Louisville, Ky., where he gave a speech on the economy.
Herbert rode with the president in the motorcade and talked to him for about a half hour, said Marty Carpenter, the governor's spokesman.
They discussed Medicaid expansion and Herbert's desire for the federal government to cap the state's expenses. They also discussed the public-lands initiative led by Rep. Rob Bishop, which is seeking to define land for federal protections and parcels that could be used for oil and gas development.
"What would be helpful is if the administration would get behind that," said Carpenter. Utah officials worry if that initiative fails, the president may name a new national monument in the state.
 
 
POPULAR STORIES

