Utah Sen. Jim Dabakis announces run for Salt Lake City mayor
Sen. Jim Dabakis, D-Salt Lake City, announced Saturday his official candidacy for Salt Lake City mayor. In a blog post published Saturday, Dabakis wrote he is running for mayor to build a "robust, power-driven, competitive, lots of candidates operating tough"...
Sen. Jim Dabakis, D-Salt Lake City, announced Saturday his official candidacy for Salt Lake City mayor.
In a blog post published Saturday, Dabakis wrote he is running for mayor to build a "robust, power-driven, competitive, lots of candidates operating tough" kind of election. The Democratic senator said he has a "vision for our Capitol City" and wants much more persons to participate in the electoral course of action.
"A brawny discussion among a significant quantity of candidates will be terrific!" he writes on his blog, the Dabakis Aspect. "Lots of input and a competitive race will bring participation to our Salt Lake neighborhoods ... It's important that all the candidates be asked difficult inquiries."
Former state lawmaker Jackie Biskupski, who announced her candidacy for mayor on March 16 with Dabakis by her side, has said his entry into the race could split the voter base they share and pave the way for a third term for Mayor Ralph Becker.
Biskupski blasted Becker for endorsing a sales-tax raise linked to the relocation of the Utah State Prison, a theme Dabakis raised in his announcement post.
Dabakis cites what he calls Salt Lake City's "murky participation in a back room" when a deal was reached in the Legislature "to authorize a hyperlink amongst Salt Lake obtaining the unwanted prison and legislative permission to hike taxes for Salt Lakers to pay for the ghastly new prison."
The final-minute sweetener makes it possible for the city where a new prison is located to impose a half-cent sales-tax improve if it is chosen. Of the candidate cities, Salt Lake City seems to be the only a single likely to contemplate such a tax hike — other possible locations have compact populations, few guests and handful of sales to tax.
"With no a grand competitive campaign, significant queries might go unasked," the blog post mentioned. "We live in America, elections should not be coronations."
Becker has mentioned he didn't cut a deal with lawmakers to include things like the provision but didn't try to dissuade them kind adding it.
The former state chairman of the Democratic celebration has served as a Utah senator considering that 2013. He was appointed to the Senate by Democratic delegates in 2012, filling the vacancy left by Ben McAdams, who was elected mayor of Salt Lake County. In 2014, Dabakis stepped down as chair of the state Democratic party, citing well being causes. He is an original co-founder of Equality Utah, which advocates for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender residents, and the Utah Pride Center.
He resigned as state chairman for overall health reasons,
Dabakis is the only openly gay member of the Senate.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

