Shares of Workday (NASDAQ:WDAY) saw unusually-strong trading volume on Tuesday following a better than expected earnings announcement, Analyst RN reports. Approximately 3,285,411 shares changed hands during trading, an increase of 92% from the previous session’s volume of 1,712,310 shares.The stock last traded at $92.49 and had previously closed at $92.18.
The company reported ($0.02) earnings per share for the quarter, beating the analysts’ consensus estimate of ($0.08) by $0.06. The company had revenue of $251.00 million for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $245.01 million. During the same quarter last year, the company posted ($0.13) earnings per share. Workday’s revenue was up 57.2% compared to the same quarter last year.
A number of analysts have recently weighed in on WDAY shares. Analysts at Cantor Fitzgerald  set a $125.00 price target on shares of Workday and gave the company a “buy” rating in a research note on Tuesday. Analysts at Brean Capital  reiterated a “hold” rating on shares of Workday in a research note on Saturday. Analysts at Jefferies Group  reiterated a “hold” rating on shares of Workday in a research note on Saturday. Finally, analysts at JMP Securities  reiterated an “outperform” rating and set a $116.00 price target on shares of Workday in a research note on Tuesday, May 19th. Four analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and nine have issued  a buy rating to the company. The company currently has a consensus rating of “Buy” and an average target price of $103.15.
The stock has a 50-day moving average of $89. and a 200-day moving average of $86.. The company’s market cap is $17.48 billion.
Workday, Inc, is a provider of enterprise cloud-based applications for human capital management ( NASDAQ:WDAY ), payroll, financial management, time tracking, procurement and employee expense management. It is focused on the consumer Internet experience and cloud delivery model.
Receive News & Ratings for Workday Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Workday and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter .
 Comment on this Post
Website
Workday - Get News & Ratings Daily
Enter your email address below to get the latest news and analysts' ratings for Workday with our FREE daily email newsletter:
Follow Us on Social Media
 
 
 

