Baton Rouge
Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Bobby Jindal jokes that 'Duck Dynasty' star would make a good running mate, from The Des Moines Register
Bobby Jindal The Response
Gov. Bobby Jindal joked that Willie Robertson would be a good running mate in a presidential campaign during an appearance in Iowa April 6.  (Photo by Brianna Paciorka, NOLA.com | The Times-Picayune) (Brianna Paciorka)
Gov.  Bobby Jindal  joked that " Duck Dynasty " star Willie Robertson would make a good vice presidential candidate and running mate during a prayer breakfast in Iowa last Friday (April 3),  according to The Des Moines Register . 
Jindal and Robertson  were appearing at a Good Friday event  in Cedar Rapids, Iowa together. The banner hanging over Jindal and Robertson's heads at the event had Robertson's name in bigger letters than Jindal's, which Robertson made note of during his remarks.
"If you had told me I was going to be going around with the governor to Iowa, where we were going to speak together and my name would be in bigger font than his, I'd say, 'No way. There's no way that's going to happen,' " said Robertson,  at the prayer breakfast .
When asked if Robertson would make a good running mate, Jindal said: 
"As a running mate? Sure, but as vice president -- I assume that's what you're asking -- not the other way around," Jindal said, adding: "He's a great guy, I think he'd be a great running mate. It'd be a huge pay cut for him, so I'm not sure he'd be willing to do it."
The governor is likely running for president in 2016 and is traveling to Iowa frequently because the state plays a large role in the national nominating process.
Back in June, Robertson  had kind words for Jindal  -- the governor appear on his reality television show -- but declined to endorse him in the presidential race. 
"I'll wait and see what (the other candidates) are, what their thoughts are, and what their core beliefs are. I know a lot about his. There are others, too. There are other people I think can govern well. So I always keep an open mind. I watch it, keep up with it, with who's running. It should be a fun battle, and it should be a fun race. I think it will be entertaining for all of us to get to know who's in the running for president, and I look forward to it," said Robertson,  when asked if he would back Jindal for president  last summer. 
. . . . . .
Julia O'Donoghue  is a state politics reporter based in  Baton Rouge . She can be reached at jodonoghue@nola.com or on Twitter at  @jsodonoghue . Please consider following us on Facebook at  NOLA.com  and  NOLA.com-Baton Rouge.
Breaking News/Live events
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for signing up!
Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you dont' see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Video          of the Day
© 2015 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

