19 shares
Keira Knightley has reportedly given birth to her first child. 
E! News cites 'multiple sources' who say the 30-year-old actress and her husband James Righton recently welcome a baby, although no other details were made available.
Us Weekly also confirmed the news via their own source but did not have any other information. 
Keira and James have yet to confirm the news and MailOnline has contacted the actress' representatives for comment.
Scroll down for video 
A new addition? E! News reports Keira Knightley and her husband James Righton have welcomed their first child
Let your style bloom like Keira in her Valentino dress
Are the rumours true? Has Keira finally given birth? it's all too exciting. But while we wait for the news to be confirmed (or quashed) we can't help but lust over this throwback of Keira earlier this year on the red carpet.
Showing off her bump, she bloomed in this designer printed piece. The synergy between Valentino and Keira Knightley is undeniable: nobody wears the designer’s creations like her! Plus, we all know Keira loves a floral print, so there’s no wonder she couldn’t resist this stunning dress.
The gorgeous gown hails from the label’s Spring/Summer ’15 couture collection, which was inspired by love and features extracts from poems embroidered onto items, just as you can see on Keira’s frock.
Valentino are not afraid to live out their most theatrical sartorial fantasies. Their creations are rooted in fantasy and set an other-wordly tone, which Keira seems to display to their full potential every time she wears one of the label's designs. The actress suits the dreamy tone of the dress so much, but it’s also the perfect shape for her bump!
Although we sadly can’t get our hands on a Valentino original, we can certainly get inspired by Keira’s love of florals – just check out the best of the bunch from the high-street below!
* PRICES MAY NOT BE AS ADVERTISED
...NOW GET ONE LIKE IT FOR LESS
Keira confirmed her pregnancy to Elle UK in December after weeks of speculation.
Although Keira has been looking forward to welcoming her first child with her Klaxons rocker, she previously admitted to that she was 'in denial' about it.
During an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live! in February, she was asked by the host if she had got the baby's room ready yet.
'No. They're quite small though right?' she revealed, before adding: 'Do they need a room of their own?'
Jimmy explained to the confused-looking actress that she would be needing to prepare a room for her child, adding that there needs to be space for a crib.
She replied in a jokey, light-hearted manner: 'OK... I'm in denial at the moment.'
Confirmed: Keira confirmed her pregnancy to Elle UK in December after weeks of speculation
And when quizzed about her birthing plan by Ellen DeGeneres, she quipped: 'There isn't an option to sort of keep it in, is there? 
'So, I'm assuming my plan is to get it out. But apparently there's more to the plan than that. I don't know what that is. Still, my plan is to get it out. It will come out.'
The Atonement actress - who has been with James, 31, since February 2011 - has made no secret of her desire to have children, but has previously insisted she would never give up her career to raise a family.
Speaking in 2012, she told Vogue magazine: 'I don't want to deny my femininity. But would I want to be a stay-at-home mother? No. On the other hand, you should be allowed to do that, as should men, without being sneered at.'
Wonderful: Keira's 'The Imitation Game' director Morten Tyldum recently predicted she would be a 'wonderful mom'
Speaking to Elle UK last summer, she appeared to have children on the brain when she discussed her fantasy film script.
She said of the imagined plot: 'The horrendous issue of trying to have a baby when you can't.
'I've seen friends who've been through this, it seems like one of the most dramatic things that can happen to half of the population – and actually, the other half as well because, my god, the unbelievable toll it takes on male partners – and there are no good films about it.' 
Keira's 'The Imitation Game' director Morten Tyldum recently predicted she would be a 'wonderful mom.'
He added: 'She's a wonderful person! She's so sincere, so loving and her husband is great and they're such a great couple.'
Keira and James tied the knot in a low-key ceremony in France in 2013.  
Any excuse: Keira admitted she used her pregnancy to convince her husband to accompany her to awards season events 
 
Read more:
19
shares
Add your comment
Enter your comment
By posting your comment you agree to our house rules .
Submit Comment
More top stories
DON'T MISS
MORE DON'T MISS
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
 
 
 

