Taxpayers Information Stolen from IRS Database
Criminals hacked the “Get Transcript” Database
POSTED: 11:10 PM CDT May 26, 2015    UPDATED: 11:12 PM CDT May 26, 2015 
UNITED STATES -
More than 100,000 tax payers information is in jeopardy. Their personal information was stolen straight from the Internal Revenue Service database.
More from KRGV
Criminals have their hands on several years of tax returns. The IRS said criminals took advantage of the agency’s online “Get Transcript” service.
Between February and May, a group successfully hacked the service about 104,000 times. The hackers got in by taking information about taxpayers they’d gotten from other sources.
They used it to correctly answer personal identity verification questions on the application. That allowed them to get information about tax accounts.
The stolen information included social security information, date of births and street addresses.
The hackers used all that information to claim the tax refunds of some 15,000 people. The theft was discovered late last week when IRS staff noticed unusual activity on the application.
Officials said the breach doesn’t involve the main IRS computer system that handles tax filing submissions.
The “Get Transcript” service was temporarily shut down. The IRS said they will be reaching out to victims and will be offering to pay for credit protection services.
advertisement
In association with:
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

