More
More
Times points
HI,
Breaking News:
PTI | May 27, 2015, 05.43 AM IST
RELATED
BEIJING: Amid escalating tensions with the US over disputed South China Sea, China on Tuesday unveiled an assertive military strategy enhancing its naval reach for the first time to "open seas protection" far from its shores, which could pose a challenge to the Indian Navy, especially in the Indian Ocean.
Striking an aggressive posture, China also outlined plans to build two lighthouses in disputed islands in South China Sea (SCS), which could further fuel tensions with maritime neighbours — Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei — backed by the US in their opposition to Chinese claims of sovereignty to whole of SCS.
With the world's largest standing army of 2.3 million troops, China's annual defence budget of over $145 billion this year is far higher than India's $40 billion.
As the Chinese military unveiled the first white paper on defence strategy stressing on "active defence", China's ministry of transport hosted a groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of two multi-functional lighthouses in the disputed Nansha islands, known as Spratly islands in the SCS.
Defending the construction of light houses which were bound to stir up fresh rounds of tensions in the SCS, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chuying told media that their major purpose is to fulfil international responsibilities and obligations, including maritime search and rescue and disaster relief.
She also lashed out at the Philippines' accusation that China is bullying its smaller neighbours. "Here is a piece of advice for the Philippines. China will never bully smaller countries but they must not take provocative actions ceaselessly and wilfully. We will stick to the rational course. We hope the Philippines will stop provoking and come back to the right track of negotiations," she said.
From India's point of view, the white paper highlights four critical security domains, including the ocean, outer space, cyberspace and nuclear weapons.
China's plans to make the navy a blue water navy could pose a major challenge to Indian Navy.
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms?alias=South China Sea,“open seas protection”
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.
Get updates on the most important happening of the day
ALSO ON TOI
Search for News
Be the first one to review.
We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message
Connect with us
Login
It seems you are already registered with us. Please enter your account details below:
User Name:
Across Times of India
Trending Topics
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Submit button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Out of context/Spam
Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.


n SOUTH CHINA SEA CHINESE NAVY large570BEIJING - China outlined a strategy to boost its naval reach on Tuesday and announced plans for the construction of two lighthouses in disputed waters, developments likely to escalate tensions in a region already jittery about Beijing's maritime ambitions.
In a policy document issued by the State Council, the Communist-ruled country's cabinet, China vowed to increase its "open seas protection," switching from air defense to both offense and defense, and criticized neighbors who take "provocative actions" on its reefs and islands.
China has been taking an increasingly assertive posture over recent years in the disputed waters of the South China Sea, where it has engaged in extensive land reclamation in the Spratly archipelago.
China claims most of the South China Sea and criticized Washington last week after a U.S. spy plane flew over areas near the reefs. Both sides accused each other of stoking instability.
A U.S. State Department spokesman declined to make a specific comment on the Chinese strategy paper, but said Washington urged Beijing "to use its military capabilities in a manner that is conducive to maintaining peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region."
Jeff Rathke reiterated the U.S. view that China's reclamation work had contributed to rising tensions and said building up of underwater features did not confer a right to a territorial sea or an exclusive economic zone.
White House spokesman Josh Earnest said President Barack Obama considered the South China Sea security situation "critically important" to U.S. national security and the global economy and said Washington was committed to working with other Asia-Pacific states to protect the free flow of commerce there.
While also declining to comment on the content of China's policy paper, Pentagon spokesman Colonel Steve Warren said its publication was "a step in the right direction" in terms of transparency and "exactly the type of thing that we've been calling for" in that respect.
China has overlapping claims with the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Taiwan and Brunei in the South China Sea, through which $5 trillion in ship-borne trade passes every year.
Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said China's reclamation in the Spratlys was comparable with construction of homes and roads on the mainland.
"From the perspective of sovereignty, there is absolutely no difference," he told reporters.
Some countries with "ulterior motives" had unfairly characterized China's military presence and sensationalized the issue, he said. Surveillance in the region was increasingly common and China would continue to take "necessary measures" to respond.
"Some external countries are also busy meddling in South China Sea affairs. A tiny few maintain constant close-in air and sea surveillance and reconnaissance against China," the strategy paper said in a thinly veiled reference to the United States.
OFFENSE AND DEFENSE
It said China's air force would shift its focus from territorial air defense to both offense and defense, and building airspace defenses with stronger military capabilities.
China also announced plans for the building of two lighthouses in the South China Sea on Tuesday and broadcast a groundbreaking ceremony on state television, defying calls from the United States and the Philippines for a freeze on such activity.
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the construction was to help maritime search and rescue, disaster relief, environmental protection and navigational security.
Wu Shicun, president of the government-affiliated National Institute for South China Sea Studies, said the lighthouses were among the first of planned civilian-use facilities in the region.
"The reefs are located near an important commercial shipping route, so there will be continued development to maintain the security of those shipping lanes," he told Reuters.
The strategy paper also said the People's Liberation Army's nuclear force, known as the Second Artillery Corps, would strengthen its capabilities for deterrence and nuclear counterattack as well as medium- and long-range precision strikes.
"China faces many complex maritime security threats and challenges and requires a navy that can carry out multifaceted missions and protect its sovereignty," Wang Jin, a senior colonel, told reporters.
The paper also cited "grave threats" to China's cyber infrastructure, adding that China would hasten development of a cyber military force.
Self-ruled Taiwan, which China considers a renegade province, called on all South China Sea claimants to shelve their disagreements to enable talks on sharing resources before a conflict breaks out.
Japan meanwhile will join a major U.S.-Australian military exercise for the first time in a sign of growing security links between the three countries as tensions fester over China's moves.
All three nations have said they are concerned about freedom of movement through the South China Sea and air space.
China's Ministry of Defense said on Tuesday it had carried out military training for party cadres from border and coastal areas on border defense, among other topics.
 
 
 

