More
More
Times points
HI,
Breaking News:
PTI | May 27, 2015, 05.43 AM IST
RELATED
BEIJING: Amid escalating tensions with the US over disputed South China Sea, China on Tuesday unveiled an assertive military strategy enhancing its naval reach for the first time to "open seas protection" far from its shores, which could pose a challenge to the Indian Navy, especially in the Indian Ocean.
Striking an aggressive posture, China also outlined plans to build two lighthouses in disputed islands in South China Sea (SCS), which could further fuel tensions with maritime neighbours — Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei — backed by the US in their opposition to Chinese claims of sovereignty to whole of SCS.
With the world's largest standing army of 2.3 million troops, China's annual defence budget of over $145 billion this year is far higher than India's $40 billion.
As the Chinese military unveiled the first white paper on defence strategy stressing on "active defence", China's ministry of transport hosted a groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of two multi-functional lighthouses in the disputed Nansha islands, known as Spratly islands in the SCS.
Defending the construction of light houses which were bound to stir up fresh rounds of tensions in the SCS, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chuying told media that their major purpose is to fulfil international responsibilities and obligations, including maritime search and rescue and disaster relief.
She also lashed out at the Philippines' accusation that China is bullying its smaller neighbours. "Here is a piece of advice for the Philippines. China will never bully smaller countries but they must not take provocative actions ceaselessly and wilfully. We will stick to the rational course. We hope the Philippines will stop provoking and come back to the right track of negotiations," she said.
From India's point of view, the white paper highlights four critical security domains, including the ocean, outer space, cyberspace and nuclear weapons.
China's plans to make the navy a blue water navy could pose a major challenge to Indian Navy.
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms?alias=South China Sea,“open seas protection”
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.
Get updates on the most important happening of the day
ALSO ON TOI
Search for News
Be the first one to review.
We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message
Connect with us
Login
It seems you are already registered with us. Please enter your account details below:
User Name:
Across Times of India
Trending Topics
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Submit button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Out of context/Spam
Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.


 
The aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson (CVN 70) operating in the South China Sea during a bi-lateral exercise aimed at promoting interoperability with the Malaysian Royal Military, on May 10, 2015. China said on Monday, May 25, that it had lodged a complaint with the US over a spy plane that flew over parts of the disputed South China Sea in a diplomatic row that has fuelled tension between the world's two largest economies. -- PHOTO: AFP 
BEIJING, May 25 (Reuters) - China said on Monday it had lodged a complaint with the United States over a US spy plane that flew over parts of the disputed South China Sea in a diplomatic row that has fuelled tension between the world's two largest economies.
Friction in the region has grown over China's land reclamation in the Spratly islands. China last week said it was"strongly dissatisfied" after a US spy plane flew over areas near the reefs, with both sides accusing each other of stoking instability.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hua Chunying said on Monday that China had lodged a complaint and that it opposed"provocative behaviour" by the United States. "We urge the US to correct its error, remain rational and stop all irresponsible words and deeds," she said. "Freedom of navigation and overflight by no means mean that foreign countries' warships and military aircraft can ignore the legitimate rights of other countries as well as the safety of aviation and navigation."
China had noted "ear-piercing voices" from many in the US about China's construction on the islands and reefs. The nationalist Global Times, a tabloid owned by the ruling Communist Party's official newspaper, the People's Daily, said war was "inevitable" between China and the United States unless Washington stopped demanding Beijing halt the building of artificial islands in the disputed waterway. It said China was determined to finish its construction work, calling it the country's "most important bottom line".
TO READ THE FULL STORY...
 
 
 
SPH Digital News / Copyright © 2015 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. Co. Regn No. 198402868E. All rights reserved.

