More
More
Times points
HI,
Breaking News:
PTI | May 27, 2015, 05.43 AM IST
RELATED
BEIJING: Amid escalating tensions with the US over disputed South China Sea, China on Tuesday unveiled an assertive military strategy enhancing its naval reach for the first time to "open seas protection" far from its shores, which could pose a challenge to the Indian Navy, especially in the Indian Ocean.
Striking an aggressive posture, China also outlined plans to build two lighthouses in disputed islands in South China Sea (SCS), which could further fuel tensions with maritime neighbours — Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei — backed by the US in their opposition to Chinese claims of sovereignty to whole of SCS.
With the world's largest standing army of 2.3 million troops, China's annual defence budget of over $145 billion this year is far higher than India's $40 billion.
As the Chinese military unveiled the first white paper on defence strategy stressing on "active defence", China's ministry of transport hosted a groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of two multi-functional lighthouses in the disputed Nansha islands, known as Spratly islands in the SCS.
Defending the construction of light houses which were bound to stir up fresh rounds of tensions in the SCS, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chuying told media that their major purpose is to fulfil international responsibilities and obligations, including maritime search and rescue and disaster relief.
She also lashed out at the Philippines' accusation that China is bullying its smaller neighbours. "Here is a piece of advice for the Philippines. China will never bully smaller countries but they must not take provocative actions ceaselessly and wilfully. We will stick to the rational course. We hope the Philippines will stop provoking and come back to the right track of negotiations," she said.
From India's point of view, the white paper highlights four critical security domains, including the ocean, outer space, cyberspace and nuclear weapons.
China's plans to make the navy a blue water navy could pose a major challenge to Indian Navy.
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms?alias=South China Sea,“open seas protection”
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.
Get updates on the most important happening of the day
ALSO ON TOI
Search for News
Be the first one to review.
We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message
Connect with us
Login
It seems you are already registered with us. Please enter your account details below:
User Name:
Across Times of India
Trending Topics
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Submit button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Out of context/Spam
Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.


China warns US to stay off disputed island, ready for war
By Mirror Updated Wednesday, May 27th 2015 at 07:31 GMT +3
Share this story:
A war between China and America war is “inevitable” unless the US government backs down over a dispute in the South China Sea, it was warned yesterday.
Chinese authorities have angered Barack Obama by pressing ahead with land reclamation in the vital shipping area.
It has speeded up construction of runways, harbour facilities and buildings on the disputed Spratly Islands.
Last week a US aircraft ignored repeated warnings from the Chinese military to fly a reconnaissance mission over the area.
Chinese leader Xi Jinping has signalled a desire to defuse tensions but a new military ‘white paper’ has outlined China ’s plans to step up “open seas protection” in the region.
It says force could be used beyond its borders at sea and in the air “to safeguard its maritime possessions”.
It said: “If the United States’ bottom line is that China has to halt its activities, then a US- China war is inevitable in the South China Sea.”
The article added that Beijing does not want a conflict with the US - “but if it were to come, we have to accept it”.
China claims most of the South China Sea - which is disputed by the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Taiwan and Brunei.
More than £3 trillion in ship-borne trade passes through the region every year.
Experts say neither China or the US want to back down - and there are fears a minor incident in airspace near the islands could escalate rapidly.
Share this story:
Militants ambush police patrol in Garissa Conflicting accounts swirled around over the number of police officers injured in an ambus...
2
3
4
5
1
2
3
4
Rains splash pain and tears on slum residents As Nairobi residents continue to reel from the effects of the devastating flash floods that hit the ...
5
Entertainment Stories
1
2
3
4
5
Let your story be published on Standard Digital. 

