More
More
Times points
HI,
Breaking News:
PTI | May 27, 2015, 05.43 AM IST
RELATED
BEIJING: Amid escalating tensions with the US over disputed South China Sea, China on Tuesday unveiled an assertive military strategy enhancing its naval reach for the first time to "open seas protection" far from its shores, which could pose a challenge to the Indian Navy, especially in the Indian Ocean.
Striking an aggressive posture, China also outlined plans to build two lighthouses in disputed islands in South China Sea (SCS), which could further fuel tensions with maritime neighbours — Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei — backed by the US in their opposition to Chinese claims of sovereignty to whole of SCS.
With the world's largest standing army of 2.3 million troops, China's annual defence budget of over $145 billion this year is far higher than India's $40 billion.
As the Chinese military unveiled the first white paper on defence strategy stressing on "active defence", China's ministry of transport hosted a groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of two multi-functional lighthouses in the disputed Nansha islands, known as Spratly islands in the SCS.
Defending the construction of light houses which were bound to stir up fresh rounds of tensions in the SCS, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chuying told media that their major purpose is to fulfil international responsibilities and obligations, including maritime search and rescue and disaster relief.
She also lashed out at the Philippines' accusation that China is bullying its smaller neighbours. "Here is a piece of advice for the Philippines. China will never bully smaller countries but they must not take provocative actions ceaselessly and wilfully. We will stick to the rational course. We hope the Philippines will stop provoking and come back to the right track of negotiations," she said.
From India's point of view, the white paper highlights four critical security domains, including the ocean, outer space, cyberspace and nuclear weapons.
China's plans to make the navy a blue water navy could pose a major challenge to Indian Navy.
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms?alias=South China Sea,“open seas protection”
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.
Get updates on the most important happening of the day
ALSO ON TOI
Search for News
Be the first one to review.
We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message
Connect with us
Login
It seems you are already registered with us. Please enter your account details below:
User Name:
Across Times of India
Trending Topics
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Submit button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Out of context/Spam
Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.


China outlined a defense strategy on Tuesday that aims to boost naval capability farther from its shores, saying it faced a grave and complex array of security threats including in the disputed South China Sea.
In a policy document issued by the State Council, the Communist-ruled country’s cabinet, it vowed to continue growing its “open seas protection” and criticized neighbors who take “provocative actions” on its reefs and islands.
“In line with the strategic requirement of offshore waters defense and open seas protection, the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) will gradually shift its focus from “offshore waters defense” to the combination of “offshore waters defense” with “open seas protection,” and build a combined, multi-functional and efficient marine combat force structure. The PLAN will enhance its capabilities for strategic deterrence and counterattack, maritime maneuvers, joint operations at sea, comprehensive defense and comprehensive support.”
Seas and oceans bear on the enduring peace, lasting stability and sustainable development of China, so the traditional mentality that land outweighs sea must be abandoned, says the paper. Great importance has to be attached to managing the seas and oceans and protecting maritime rights and interests.
Attack and Counterattack
In upholding the continued strategic concept of active defense, the document states: “We will not attack unless we are attacked, but we will surely counterattack if attacked.”
It continues: “A holistic approach will be taken to balance war preparation and war prevention, rights protection and stability maintenance, deterrence and warfighting, and operations in wartime and employment of military forces in peacetime.”
Integrated combat forces will be employed to prevail in system-vs-system operations featuring information dominance, precision strikes and joint operations.
The document says China’s air force would shift its focus from territorial air defense to both offence and defense, and will build airspace defenses with stronger military capabilities.
The People’s Liberation Army’s nuclear force, known as the Second Artillery Corps, will also strengthen its capabilities for deterrence and nuclear counterattack as well as medium- and long-range precision strikes, the paper said.
A Message of Peace
The document also states China’s commitment to peace: “The Chinese people aspire to join hands with the rest of the world to maintain peace, pursue development and share prosperity.
“China’s destiny is vitally interrelated with that of the world as a whole. A prosperous and stable world would provide China with opportunities, while China’s peaceful development also offers an opportunity for the whole world. China will unswervingly follow the path of peaceful development, pursue an independent foreign policy of peace and a national defense policy that is defensive in nature, oppose hegemonism and power politics in all forms, and will never seek hegemony or expansion. China’s armed forces will remain a staunch force in maintaining world peace.”
Russia and the U.S.
China’s armed forces will further their exchanges and cooperation with the Russian military within the framework of the comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination between China and Russia, and foster a comprehensive, diverse and sustainable framework to promote military relations in more fields and at more levels. 
Additionally, China’s armed forces will continue to foster a new model of military relationship with the U.S. armed forces that conforms to the new model of major-country relations between the two countries. They will strengthen defense dialogues, exchanges and cooperation, and improve confidence-building measures through the notification of major military activities as well as the rules of behavior for safety of air and maritime encounters, so as to strengthen mutual trust, prevent risks and manage crises. 
A Continued Focus on the South China Sea
The document comes as tensions rise over China’s increasingly assertive posture in the disputed waters of the South China Sea, where Beijing has engaged in land reclamation in the Spratly archipelago.
China, which claims most of the South China Sea, criticized Washington after a U.S. spy plane flew over areas near the reefs last week, with both sides accusing each other of stoking instability in the region.
Yang Yujun, a spokesman for the Ministry of Defense, said in a briefing on Tuesday China’s reclamation activities in the Spratly archipelago were comparable with construction of homes and roads on its mainland.
“From the perspective of sovereignty, there is absolutely no difference,” he said.
He said some countries with “ulterior motives” had unfairly characterized China's military presence and sensationalized the issue. Surveillance activities in the region were increasingly common, and China would continue to take “necessary measures” to respond, Yang said.
“Some external countries are also busy meddling in South China Sea affairs; a tiny few maintain constant close-in air and sea surveillance and reconnaissance against China,” the strategy paper said in a thinly veiled reference to the United States.
The paper indicates that the PLAN will continue to organize and perform regular combat readiness patrols and maintain a military presence in relevant sea areas.
The report can be found here .

