Clothing retailer Hot Topic, Inc. has acquired Geeknet, Inc., the company behind online retailer ThinkGeek for $122 million.
ThinkGeek, for those not familiarÂ with the store, is an online retailer that caters to, as the name may suggest, geeks. The company sells a range of products including clothing, electronic and scientific gadgets, unusual computer peripherals, office toys, pet toys, child toys, and caffeinated drinks and candy.
Occasionally the site brings out a product that goes viral in popularity, making it a long-popular online store for those working in the tech industry.
“We are pleased to have entered into this agreement and look forward to adding Geeknet’s innovative products and services to our portfolio,” Chief Executive Officer of Hot TopicÂ Lisa Harper said in a statement .Â “Geeknet’s unique concept and approach to the online retail community is a strong fit with our business strategy, which is focused on delivering great products for avid fans of various licensed properties, and we are excited about the opportunity to help drive profitable growth and further enhance value for Geeknet’s customers.”
“We remain focused on increasing our visibility, providing a platform to stimulate ideas and creativity, and expanding our product offerings to keep up with industry and customer demands. As a subsidiary of Hot Topic, Geeknet will be well-positioned to achieve these goals ”Â Kathryn McCarthy, Chief Executive Officer of Geeknet added.
Down memory lane
Although the ThinkGeek site was founded in 1999, the company has some other more interesting roots in the first dot-com bubble.
Parent company Geeknet wasn’t always known by the same, previously being known as SourceForge, Inc., and before that VA Linux Systems, Inc.
The name won’t ring a bell to anyone who would describe themselves as a millennial, but asÂ BloombergÂ points out , if you’re older you might remember it as having had one of the most successful tech initial public offerings (IPO’s) of all time.
The company, founded in 1993, sold computers in the consumer market that had Linux installed as their operating systems; it may sound funny to many in 2015 that anyone thought they could use Linux to compete with Microsoft Corp.’s Windows in the consumer market, but the 90’s were a different time. Windows had really only come to dominate the market by the mid 90s (Windows 95 being the killer release as it natively supported internet access, unlike Windows 3.11 before it) and many couldn’t conceive that there shouldn’t be multiple popular operating systems on the market, as there once had before.
The IPO at the height of the boom:
VA Linux was given an official IPO price of $30 per share on December 9, 1999. The first actual trade went off at $299. It reached $320 that first day, before closing at $239.25,Â a 698-percent gain over theÂ opening offer. To this day, it remains the largest first-day gain in Nasdaq’s history.
18 months later the company was out of the hardware business altogether, and what remained eventually evolved to Geeknet today.
Duncan Riley is a senior writer at SiliconANGLE covering Startups, Bitcoin, and the Internet of Things.
Duncan is a co-founder of VC funded media company B5Media and founder of news site The Inquisitr, and was a senior writer at TechCrunch in its earlier days.
Tips? Press releases? Intersting startup? email: duncan@nichenet.com.au or contact Duncan on Twitter @duncanriley
Latest posts by Duncan Riley ( see all )
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <s> <strike> <strong>
Top Stories
Stuart Miniman
The emerging PaaS platforms (Cloud Foundry, Heroku, OpenShift, Docker) are all evolving to capture the mindshare of developers. While the PaaS battles are still in early days, Cloud Foundry is emerging as a leading open source platform and ecosystem to build and deploy the new Cloud Native applications that are driving these economic changes via software. But this Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) model requires changes to technology, skills (people) and internal IT processes. This means enterprises need to become familiar with this development and operational model to best understand how they can accelerate using Cloud Native applications to give themselves a business differentiation.
David Floyer
Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) is a full application lifecycle cloud service including initial development, testing, deployment, operations and maintenance. Wikibon defines three different PaaS cloud services, 1/ PaaS integrated with IaaS, an integrated platform (e.g., IBM Bluemix, EMC Pivotal Cloud Foundry), 2/ PaaS on top of IaaS, combining development services onto a specific platform (e.g., AWS, Microsoft Azure) and 3/ PaaS on top of SaaS, a development front-end to a SaaS platform with its underlying infrastructure (e.g., ServiceNow, SalesForce). Wikibon will be using this topology to define its PaaS analysis and forecasts.
Jeff Kelly
When I began covering the Big Data market for Wikibon back in early 2011, it was early days. Big Data technologies such as Hadoop and NoSQL, while still early in their development, were becoming better known by enterprise practitioners. The market for commercial Big Data technologies and services was small but on the verge of rapid growth. But from a business use case perspective, Big Data was long on promise but short on specifics.    A lot has changed over the last four years. Without question, Big Data technologies have developed at breakneck speed due in large part to a vibrant open source community of developers. Hadoop in particular has taken great strides. What was once a batch processing, unsecure and somewhat finicky framework is now a much more comprehensive, enterprise-grade, multi-application supporting Big Data platform.
Steve Chambers
Hybrid cloud is being touted as the best solution for enterprises today but it is under attack.  Complex enterprises have complex needs which means they are unlikely to get everything they need from one hybrid cloud.  Investing in a single hybrid cloud to glue one private and one public cloud together is not the ultimate answer, as recognised by many referring to hybrid cloud as "a journey".  However, the danger is that if you design for a dual-element hybrid cloud then you will not equip yourself for the extensibility required to snap in/out new/old cloud elements over time, and you will still be down a dead end.
Jeff Kelly
MarkLogic held its annual customer and partner conference in San Francisco earlier this month. The company, whose NoSQL database evolved from a simple XML data store and is beginning to disrupt the traditional RDBMS market, is experiencing solid growth. For the calendar year 2014, the company reported total revenue in excess of $100 million for the first time in its 14-year history. It is the largest of the NoSQL pure-play vendors and recently added JSON support, semantic and bitemporal analytics capabilities, and incremental back-up capabilities to its flagship database.
Steve Chambers
Enterprise IT has been ignited by the Digital Economy and exploded into thousands of users, devices, applications and questions:  When users are using their laptop over coffee-house wifi to look up a customer on their public cloud SaaS CRM system, before logging into email on-premises to send an invite to the customer: are they using one identity, or two?  Without a single, unique trusted identity across hybrid cloud, there is no hybrid cloud because it looks like a discombobulated and fragmented set of "stuff" to the user, whether that's an infrastructure administrator or a business administrator.  This pounding headache has to be addressed with modern hybrid identity systems.
Stuart Miniman
After thousands of interviews with technology leaders on cloud, big data and infrastructure - now for something completely different. JOHN CLEESE ON THECUBE!
David Floyer
Wikibon concludes that for the majority of enterprise performance applications, the FaME architecture will be the most performant, the lowest cost to develop applications, the lowest cost to maintain and manage, and be enterprise reliable. Wikibon believes that FaME systems will appear in 2015.    Wikibon believes that CIOs should ensure that FaME architected systems are installed early, and should be asking their brightest and most creative staff to use FaME to implement advanced application functionality, such as implementing automated decision support within an operation system. These techniques will be vital to IT to guide the organization to avoid being disrupted, and to be competitive in the second machine age.
Steve Chambers
In the UK, large enterprise, household named, logos in all markets are using AWS and not only for virtual machines and storage.  Enterprises are consuming features such as identity, data warehouse, search, content delivery as AWS increase the size of the set of undifferentiated heavy lifting due to the hundreds of features they are releasing and improving.
Steve Chambers
Containers, and specifically Docker, allows the management of applications to be freed from the shackles of infrastructure. This article examines the state of containers and the booming Docker ecosystem and how enterprise IT should get started at embracing this important technology.

