By SANDRA CHEREB
LAS VEGAS REVIEW-JOURNAL
CARSON CITY — A bill requiring employers to offer paid sick leave was met with opposition Monday by business groups who said it would cost Nevada employers millions of dollars a year.
Senate Bill 259 presented by Senate Minority Leader Aaron Ford, D-Las Vegas, and Assemblywoman Dina Neal, D-North Las Vegas, says an employee is entitled to accrue paid sick leave at a rate of one hour for every 30 hours worked. Employees could use sick time after being employed for 90 days.
The measure, heard Monday by the Senate Committee on Commerce, Labor and Energy, would allow employers to limit paid sick leave to three days, or 24 hours, each year, and cap available sick time to 48 hours total.
Ford said providing paid leave would mean employees would not have to choose between going to work sick and losing income. The bill is sponsored by 25 Democratic members in the state Senate and Assembly.
Ford said businesses would benefit because workers who show up to the job sick are less productive and often take longer to recuperate.
The National Partnership for Women and Families estimates 40 percent of private-sector workers lack paid sick days. It says workers with access to paid sick days take an average of 3.9 days per year for their own illnesses and 1.3 days to care for family members.
In comparison, workers without sick leave take on average three days off for illness per year. Of workers who do have paid sick days, half do not use any, the group said.
Nevada would join California, Massachusetts and Connecticut if it enacts a statewide sick leave law, Ford said.
Workers who leave employment would not be entitled to compensation for any unused sick time, though a provision would require that any unused time be reinstated if a worker is rehired by the same businesses within a year.
Bob Ostrovsky, representing the Nevada Resort Association, estimated the bill could cost Nevada businesses anywhere from $171 million to $350 million a year. He also said the provision reinstating unused sick leave if a worker who leaves a job returns within one year would almost guarantee they would not be rehired. Employers would instead opt to hire a new employee, he said.
The bill is also opposed by chambers of commerce in Northern and Southern Nevada, the Retail Association of Nevada and Associated General Contractors.
No action was taken by the committee.
Contact Sandra Chereb at schereb@reviewjournal.com or 775-687-3901. Find her on Twitter: @SandraChereb.
Comment section guidelines
 
 
 
 
 

