Doug Lightfoot
Last Modified: Thursday, April 9, 2015 at 6:43 p.m.
Dear Editor: Remember learning in school that legislation comes from the legislative branch, undergoes robust debate and public discussion, and then Congress votes “yes” or “no” on it? And certainly only helpful legislation would pass such a rigorous, democratic process?
The current most ominous threat to our sovereignty comes from the proposed fast-tracking of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The TPP has been negotiated in secret largely by lobbyists, not our elected representatives, and seeks to gut our local legislative bodies and watchdog entities from authority over this give-away deal to trans-national companies.
The executive branch is seeking fast-track congressional approval to avoid any thoughtful reading and discussion by Congress and by us, the people. Instead, we need to alert our representatives and our neighbors that the light of day must shine on this proposed deal.
We must ensure that there are no secretive tribunals usurping proper, local channels; that rules to safeguard our children’s health and environment do not get sidestepped; that access to critical generic medicines is not limited; and that local wages do not get forced into a downward “race-to-the-bottom” spiral.
Join in strengthening and exercising the democratic process. Let us vigorously debate suspicious legislation from the shadows. We bear responsibility for our governance and the well-being of our kids.
TuscaloosaNews.com April 9, 2015 6:43 PM
<p>Dear Editor: Remember learning in school that legislation comes from the legislative branch, undergoes robust debate and public discussion, and then Congress votes “yes” or “no” on it? And certainly only helpful legislation would pass such a rigorous, democratic process? </p><p>The current most ominous threat to our sovereignty comes from the proposed fast-tracking of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The TPP has been negotiated in secret largely by lobbyists, not our elected representatives, and seeks to gut our local legislative bodies and watchdog entities from authority over this give-away deal to trans-national companies.</p><p>The executive branch is seeking fast-track congressional approval to avoid any thoughtful reading and discussion by Congress and by us, the people. Instead, we need to alert our representatives and our neighbors that the light of day must shine on this proposed deal. </p><p>We must ensure that there are no secretive tribunals usurping proper, local channels; that rules to safeguard our children's health and environment do not get sidestepped; that access to critical generic medicines is not limited; and that local wages do not get forced into a downward “race-to-the-bottom” spiral. </p><p>Join in strengthening and exercising the democratic process. Let us vigorously debate suspicious legislation from the shadows. We bear responsibility for our governance and the well-being of our kids.</p>

