Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Minnesota, Minneapolis opt against travel bans to Indiana
The state of Minnesota and the city of Minneapolis have opted against proposed travel bans to Indiana now that Indiana lawmakers have revised a state law to address concerns that it would allow discrimination against gays and lesbians in the name of religious freedom.
Post to Facebook
Minnesota, Minneapolis opt against travel bans to Indiana The state of Minnesota and the city of Minneapolis have opted against proposed travel bans to Indiana now that Indiana lawmakers have revised a state law to address concerns that it would allow discrimination against gays and lesbians in the name of religious freedom. Check out this story on kare11.com: http://www.kare11.com/story/news/local/2015/04/03/minnesota-minneapolis-opt-against-travel-bans-to-indiana/25264317/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
1
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Minnesota, Minneapolis opt against travel bans to Indiana
Associated Press, Associated Press 5:26 p.m. EDT April 3, 2015
USA TODAY
ST. PAUL, Minn. - The state of Minnesota and the city of Minneapolis have opted against proposed travel bans to Indiana now that Indiana lawmakers have revised a state law to address concerns that it would allow discrimination against gays and lesbians in the name of religious freedom.
Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton had been considering a ban on state employees traveling to Indiana for official business. In a statement Friday, he says the changes to Indiana's law fall short of the equal protection standards enacted in Minnesota, but he doesn't believe a travel ban is necessary.
Minneapolis also backed off a proposed travel ban. Instead it passed a resolution calling on Indiana and 27 other states to enact affirmative protections for GLBT citizens to protect them from discrimination in housing, employment and public accommodations.
Read or Share this story: http://www.kare11.com/story/news/local/2015/04/03/minnesota-minneapolis-opt-against-travel-bans-to-indiana/25264317/
More Stories

