TONIGHT:
The Canadian Press - ONLINE EDITION
Surprise! Guardsman dons polo shirt to attend news conference, ends up at a table with Obama
By: Kelly Catalfamo, The Associated Press
Tweet
Post
Reddit
ShareThis
Print
Email
File - In this April 3, 2015, file photo, President Barack Obama, center, participates in a roundtable about clean energy with Judy Fisher, clockwise from Obama, Marvin Lance Futch, Rep. Rob Bishop, R-Utah, Harry "Buddy" Briesmaster III, Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and Michelle Fisher at Hill Air Force Base, Utah. Last week, Futch donned a white polo and drove to Hill Air Force Base for what he believed was a chance to be in the audience during a news conference with a “senior White House official.” Instead, he found himself sitting at a small table just one seat away from President Barack Obama, a speck of white in a circle of dark suits. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster, File)
SALT LAKE CITY - Last week, 26-year-old Lance Futch donned a white polo shirt and drove to Hill Air Force Base for what he believed was a chance to be in the audience during a news conference with a "senior White House official."
Instead, he found himself sitting at a small table just one seat away from President Barack Obama.
"If I had known it was my commander in chief, I definitely would have been wearing my blues," said the national guardsman, referring to the Air National Guard's dress uniform.
Futch said he was shocked but honoured when the senior official turned out to be Obama.
"That's just amazing," said Futch, describing the experience of talking with not only Obama but U.S. Sen. Orrin Hatch, U.S. Rep. Rob Bishop and Salt Lake City Mayor Ralph Becker.
The White House had asked Lehi-based company Vivant Solar to send a representative with military affiliation to the base during Obama's visit last week.
The company chose Futch, who designs solar cells and is serving his fourth year in the Utah Air National Guard.
Futch, an Orem resident, said the president personally asked him questions about Vivant Solar and whether solar energy is a career opportunity for veterans.
He told the president that it's a growing industry and a great opportunity for a stable career path after the military.
"We're always going to have a sun," Futch told the AP on Wednesday.
At the Hill Air Force Base, Obama announced the expansion of solar energy training programs from the current three military bases to a total of 10.
Fact Check
Have you found an error, or know of something we’ve missed in one of our stories?
Please use the form below and let us know.
* Required
In which story did you find the error? *
Please post the headline of the story or the title of the video with the error.
What was the error? *
What should we have written?
Please indicate your source for the correct information.
Can we contact you about this? *
Yes
No
Name: *
E–mail Address: *
This will only be used to contact you if we have a question about your submission, it will not be used to identify you or be published.
Enter the words that you see: *
This is to prevent our forms from being filled out automatically.
Have Your Say
Have Your Say
Comments are open to Winnipeg Free Press print or e-edition subscribers only. why?
Comments are open to Winnipeg Free Press Subscribers only. why?
Follow
(6 of 28 articles for today)
Poll
Will you be more inclined to visit The Forks after its upcoming food court makeover?
Yes, I'm looking forward to the improvements.
I already visit The Forks often, but I'm interested to see the changes.
No, I don't plan on going to The Forks after the makeover.
I don't care about anything but the Jets right now!

