A free battery charging cradle is included in the offer too
All major carriers in the United States will be launching the LG G4 in the next couple of days. Some will start pre-orders for the smartphone, while other will actually sell it before the month's end.
US Cellular announced a few days ago that it will start taking LG G4 pre-orders on May 29, but did not share any details on pricing and availability.
Today, the carrier confirmed that in two days from now, customers will be able to pre-order the LG G4 online. In addition, US Cellular announced the LG G4 will be available for purchase at brick and mortar stores from June 4.
Potential customers will be able to pick this one up for $0 down and monthly payments of $29.50 if they choose the Gold or Metallic Gray versions. For the Black Leather LG G4, customers will have to come up with $30.50 monthly payments.
The carrier offers an additional option, which will allow customers to grab the LG G4 for $200 with a two-year agreement.
The limited time promotion ends on June 21
But that's not all. As part of a limited time promotion , customers who purchase the G4 until June 21 will also received a 32GB memory card, an extra removable battery and a batter charging cradle for free.
If you decide to opt for another carrier, then you should know that T-Mobile will start selling the LG G4 later today and those who purchase it will receive a 128GB memory card for free.
The G4 will ship with Android 5.0 Lollipop and LG Optimus UX 4.0 UI on top. On the inside, LG has decided to put a hexa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 808 processor instead of the Snapdragon 810 CPU.
LG G4 comes with 32GB of internal memory inside, but depending from where you get the smartphone you will be able to expand storage by either 32GB or 128GB.
Hot right now  ·  Latest news
submit
   LG G4
New Mobile Apps
Follow
13K
© 2001-2015 Softpedia. All rights reserved. Softpedia® and the Softpedia® logo are registered trademarks of SoftNews NET SRL.      We use cookies to offer you a complete experience. Learn more: Privacy policy .
news tip

