It had been missing since March 11
Recent
The Minneapolis-St. Paul metro area has prospered with a unique seven-county tax-sharing program.
Recent
RECENT
Recent
Recent
FEATURED
MORE
MORE
RECENT
Saved
JEFFERSON CITY • Missouri senators have passed a plan subjecting social programs such as psychiatric hospitals and developmental disabilities support to cuts next year — a move that Gov. Jay Nixon said Friday was unnecessary because of growing state revenue.
The Senate passed early Wednesday morning a $26.1 billion budget for the 2016 fiscal year that begins July 1. That budget includes a cut of about $140 million in general revenue to social programs, a number that State Budget Director Linda Luebbering said could reach $300 million when taking matching federal funds into account.
Nixon and some lawmakers are concerned about this cut, especially because it’s accomplished by lumping numerous programs in the departments of Mental Health, Health and Senior Services and Social Services into two large groups and then cutting 6 percent from the total in the Social Services group and 4 percent from the total in the group containing programs from the other two departments.
Senate Appropriations Chairman Kurt Schaefer, R-Columbia, says the cuts are an effort to rein in spending in areas that continue to grow each year.
The House version of the budget does not include these cuts. Any differences between the versions must be reconciled before landing on the governor’s desk.
Nixon penned a letter Friday to lawmakers explaining why he believes the cuts are unnecessary. In March, 2015 fiscal year-to-date general revenue was up 6.8 percent — or $379 million — compared to last year. This is higher than was anticipated and means there will be an additional $80 million of general revenue for next year.
But the problem is there are still three months left in the fiscal year that ends June 30, said House Budget Vice Chairman Scott Fitzpatrick, R-Shell Knob. Revenue could fall significantly in that amount of time, he added.
Nixon also noted lawmakers sent tax amnesty to his desk, a measure that would allow Missourians to pay delinquent taxes without facing penalties or interest and result in an estimated additional $60 million of general revenue.
Revenue generated from that measure, however, already is earmarked for Medicaid adult dental benefits, a promise made to persuade Sen. Rob Schaaf, R-St. Joseph, not to filibuster tax amnesty.
On Tuesday night, Schaaf tried to remove programs such as the state psychiatric hospitals and the developmental disabilities community support from the group to receive a 4 percent cut. He says he has a “special passion in his heart” for those programs.
Under the plan, the Department of Mental Health estimates that state psychiatric hospitals, with 1,200 psychiatric hospital beds including those at Fulton State Hospital, could receive a $7.4 million cut; community support, which serves 13,000 individuals, could receive a $11.9 million cut.
But state psychiatric hospitals could not sustain a 4 percent cut because they operate at or above 100 percent capacity already, said Debra Walker, department spokeswoman.
Schaefer said the cuts wouldn’t have to be distributed evenly. It would be up to each department to find efficiencies and decide where to make cuts.
Other programs subject to these cuts include:
• Traumatic brain injury program
• Missourians with HIV/AIDS who don’t have health care coverage or financial resources to cope
• Services and care for abused and neglected children
• Services for children in the juvenile justice system
Lawmakers must send the 13 bills to Nixon by May 8, but Republican leaders have said they hope to finish earlier than that.
The bills are House Bills 1-13.
Alex Stuckey • 573-556-6186
@alexdstuckey on Twitter
astuckey@post-dispatch.com
Copyright 2015 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
More Government & Politics stories
RECENT POSTS
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with www.stltoday.com account:
Username & Password Required!

