Network of Cruz super PACs boasts big haul
Washington (CNN)
Sen. Ted Cruz supporters set up this week a nexus of three super PACs to support his presidential run, according to FEC filings.
Keep the Promise PAC said Wednesday in a release the web of political action committees will haul in $31 million by the end of the week, a figure CNN could not independently verify. The super PACs, which can solicit unlimited donation amounts, won't disclose their finances until the first Federal Elections Commission filing deadline July 31.
FEC filings for the three super PACs -- including the two others, Keep the Promise II and Keep the Promise III -- list the same mailing address, bank and treasurer, Dathan Voelter, an attorney and accountant based in Austin Texas who is listed in the press release as having "strong personal and family ties to Senator Cruz."
Voelter donated $500 to Cruz's Senate campaign in 2011, according to FEC records.
Super PACs can raise and spend unlimited amounts independently, but cannot donate to or coordinate with a specific campaign.
"Our goal is to guarantee Senator Cruz can compete against any candidate," Voelter said in the release. "Supporters of the Senator now have a powerful vehicle with the resources necessary to aid in his effort to secure the Republican nomination and win back The White House."
The super PACs will file separate financial disclosures but are "affiliated with one another for legal and regulatory purposes," according to FEC filings.
The setup, though, is unorthodox and Kenneth Gross, a campaign finance attorney and former associate general counsel at the FEC, said he had never heard of a network of linked super PACs with the same treasurer and near identical names.
"I don't see any benefit from it from a legal standpoint," Gross said, noting that the groups could essentially act as one entity regardless. "They might as well be one committee."
Gross said the groups could potentially limit their liability, in the case of delinquent payments or a defamation lawsuit, for example, but said even that kind of defense would not be fool proof.
An internal memo obtained by Bloomberg Politics , which first reported the PACs' establishment, explains that "the use of multiple PACs, however, will allow Keep the Promise to uniquely and flexibly tailor its activities in support of Senator Cruz and afford donors greater control over PAC operations."
The group's press release announced four PACs were established, though FEC filings only list three. Voelter could not immediately explain the discrepancy.
CNN's Peter Hamby contributed to this report.
More from Politics
Confirm

