NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
Rand Paul Is Set to Join Contest for Republican Presidential Nomination
Inside
Photo
Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, before a book signing at the Conservative Political Action Conference in February. Credit Jabin Botsford/The New York Times
LOUISVILLE, KY. — Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky is set to declare himself a candidate for the Republican nomination for president on Tuesday, aiming to upset the political order in Washington and disprove those in his own party who doubt that a fiercely libertarian conservative can be a serious contender.
Mr. Paul’s brand of politics could make him both an outlier and a target among his rivals. In a primary contest of candidates debating which of them is the most doctrinaire conservative, Mr. Paul is likely to be the only one arguing for reducing federal drug penalties, clamping down on the nation’s intelligence agencies and taking a more deliberative approach to military intervention.
On social issues like abortion and same-sex marriage , however, he does not stray from the Republican Party line.
Mr. Paul, 52, will become the second Republican to enter the 2016 campaign, following his colleague in the Senate, Ted Cruz of Texas.
Related Coverage
While Mr. Paul’s political résumé may be short — he entered politics with the emergence of the Tea Party movement , winning election to the Senate in 2010, in his first run for office — he has built over the past year and a half what Republican strategists say are some of the most extensive political operations in the states that will vote first in the party’s nominating process: Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina.
Much of the backbone for that political operation will come from the voters and volunteers who gave his father, former Representative Ron Paul of Texas, a base of energetic support in his own unsuccessful bids for the presidency in 2008 and 2012.
But Mr. Paul has made it clear in his appeals over the past two years to constituencies as varied as students at black colleges, tech executives, movement libertarians and establishment Republicans that his intention is to seek out a far wider path to the nomination than his father did.
Mr. Paul’s planned rollout tour this week illustrates the unusual ideological tilt of his campaign. From Kentucky, his adopted home state — where he has practiced ophthalmology in Bowling Green since 1993 — Mr. Paul will go Wednesday to New Hampshire for a town hall meeting in the small town of Milford, a setting that his aides chose to highlight his belief in the virtues of local government.
The next day he will speak near Charleston, S.C., with the aircraft carrier Yorktown as his backdrop. That event will focus on the issue that most sets Mr. Paul apart from his Republican rivals: his belief that the United States should be more cautious and restrained in its military engagements overseas.
It is a position Mr. Paul will have largely to himself when he squares off against other Republicans, but one that makes him a target of conservatives who say he would weaken the military and undermine national security.
Mr. Paul plans to spend Friday at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, a liberal pocket of the state.
Among the Republican contenders, Mr. Paul will need to put together the most disparate coalition to win the nomination . Some voters he hopes to win over are not even Republicans, like college students who could be drawn to his views on reining in domestic surveillance, and blacks who he hopes will welcome his position on easing drug-sentencing laws.
He also counts on energizing the libertarian faithful who supported his father in 2008 and 2012, and the Tea Party adherents who share Mr. Paul’s fiscally conservative belief in shrinking the size of government.
Mr. Paul would need to carry one of the first four states in the nominating process next year to silence critics who say he is little more than a repackaged version of his father, with more moderate-sounding talking points.
The ultimate test for Mr. Paul, though, will be whether the very different groups he is courting take his overtures as sincere, or instead come to view him as just another politician telling them what he thinks they want to hear.
Loading...

