A
A
A
Share this URL
Bebeto Matthews/ASSOCIATED PRESS
The MTA receives $5.3 billion from fares and tolls. The agency also collects another $4.8 billion through taxes, fees and the city budget, says Controller Scott Stringer.
The state-controlled MTA is running on the backs of New York City taxpayers, Controller Scott Stringer said.
City denizens and businesses pay the MTA $4.8 billion in “invisible” fares — taxes, fees and money from the city budget, according to a report from the controller’s office. That is on top of the “staggering” $5.3 billion New Yorkers pay in fares and tolls, Stringer said.
That comes out to $130 a month for each household — more than the cost of a monthly unlimited MetroCard, according to the analysis.
“City residents and businesses are already footing an enormous bill,” Stringer said.
The state has kicked in just $605 million to run the transit system, the report found. Gov. Andrew Cuomo put $1 billion toward the MTA’s $32 billion program — $14 billion short — to improve a transit system struggling with age and heavy ridership.
Patrick Cashin/Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Construction of the Second Avenue Subway as of late January 2013.
Stringer’s report was released amid a funding feud between the MTA and the de Blasio administration .
MTA President and Chairman Thomas Prendergast earlier this month said the city should be spending $300 million a year toward transit on the same day the mayor was touting a $125 million annual contribution. The MTA chief also called the city to drum up $1 billion to continue building the Second Avenue subway into East Harlem.
The MTA in a statement slammed Stringer’s “fuzzy math” that lets the city off the hook to pay for its “fair share for mass transit.”
De Blasio spokeswoman Amy Spitalnick said Stringer’s report “underscores a fundamental reality: New York City and its taxpayers have disproportionate subsidized the MTA, particularly after years of declining state investment.”
Related Stories
New York Video
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

