Share
Updated: 1 hour ago
John Locher, Associated Press
Summary
Both Ted Cruz and Rand Paul have shaken up a clubby Senate culture. Even the launching messages of the two candidates are not dissimilar. Which is why it is fascinating to see the divergent reactions to their announcements.
SALT LAKE CITY — One great thing about living in America is that almost anyone could be sworn in as president of the United States less than two years from now. Yet our perception of that man or woman — whomever it is — will be dramatically different in the future than it is today.
All we are doing now is looking for clues about the type of character an untested presidential candidate will deploy in the office that she or he eventually assumes.
On the Republican side, two conservative first-term senators have leaped forward. Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky on Tuesday launched his bid with a speech in Louisville . He followed Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, who declared his candidacy two weeks earlier, in a speech at Liberty University in Virginia .
Syndicated columnist Charles Krauthammer places both men in the "second tier" of prospective Republicans, giving Cruz odds of 15-1 ("straightforward base-oriented campaign"), and Paul odds of 30-1 ("high floor of devoted libertarians; low ceiling in today's climate").
I'm certain the same sorts of dismissive things, and more, could have been and were said of Barack Obama just eight years ago.
And yet just 10 days ago, Obama was here in Utah in full regalia as our commander-in-chief. It would be hard to say that the president did not receive a respectful treatment during his visit to the state in which he polled the absolute worst of all 50.
In 15 hours on Thursday night and Friday before Easter, Obama smiled for photo ops with elected representatives and Democratic allies. He spent 30 minutes talking one-on-one with our very Republican Gov. Gary Herbert during the motorcade from Hill Air Force Base to downtown Salt Lake, and then another 20 minutes meeting with top officials from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at his hotel.
So take a moment to wipe the sleep out of your eyes and consider: Two years from now, how would a President Cruz govern? Is the nation in 2016 prepared for a President Paul? Based on the words spoke as they launched their campaigns, and their deeds, what signals have they given about their potential presidencies?
On the one hand, both men are similar tea party rebels from the model of an establishment-oriented Republican elder statesman — the mold into which Utah’s favorite son Mitt Romney has now unfortunately fallen.
Both Cruz and Paul have shaken up a clubby Senate culture. Paul sprang a 13-hour filibuster against electronic surveillance and then-CIA director-nominee John Brennan (subsequently confirmed). Cruz gained fame with his own 21-hour Senate floor speech against Obamacare, setting the government into a shutdown in October 2013.
Even the launching messages of the two candidates are not dissimilar. Which is why it is fascinating to see the divergent reactions to their announcements. Cruz's candidacy became a Rorschach test for the respondent’s conservatism, with — for example — California Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, describing him as " absolutely unfit ."
Both in his campaign speech and in his first television advertisement , Cruz is going to the heart of voters for whom religion, and religious liberty, is vital to the American experience.
He mentioned God nine times in his speech at the Evangelic Christian university, making his minister-father's journey from Castro's Cuba to freedom in the United States a central narrative of his candidacy. By contrast, the fight against "Obamacare" was mentioned only three times.
Paul's announcement, by contrast, has been greeted as the most " interesting " campaign by Politico and a range of other media outlets. This Week described him as "the candidate Republicans need, [but] won't admit it." Vice News does a point-by-point contrast between the two tea party brothers. Reason magazine highlights the different messaging in ads — "A Different Kind of Republican" from Paul, a "Blessing" from Cruz — while also admonishing Paul for his recent Evangelic-focused comments .
But Paul's message of American liberty freed from the shackles of Washington-centric governance was fundamentally the same message delivered by Cruz, albeit more sparing in its calls upon deity, with only a singular reference to beseeching "God's help" in Paul’s quest.
Accounting for his reference to "Liberty University," Cruz even bested Paul: Cruz used the word "liberty" 17 times in his campaign kickoff, versus 11 by Paul.
Paul was similarly derivative in several of his marquee positions: Like Cruz, he's against the NSA's domestic surveillance. Like Cruz, he's against radical Islam. Like Cruz, he wants American constitutional government to respect all aspects of the Bill of Rights, including the Second Amendment’s right to bear arms.
It’s too early to truly gauge the odds of nomination for either of these men. But — like Obama eight years prior — these single-term Republicans are bringing an energy and a passion for their corner of the American political landscape.
Drew Clark can be reached via email: drew@drewclark.com , or on Twitter @drewclark, or at www.utahbreakfast.com
Recommended Stories
Connect:
Subscribe
Mobile
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Email

