Published  4:59 PM HST May 26, 2015
Related
Reporter: You mentioned practicing those play calls since they're a bit longer. How much time maybe are you putting in to that and how much of your routine is that?
Marcus: It's every night for now. Just so that I can get comfortable with it. Obviously as you go forward, it's going to make a lot more sense and things are going to click. You won't have to recite some of these things. For me, learning a whole new system, I just kind of have to go over it constantly so that I know what's going on.
Reporter: Coach Lebeau has talked about trying to make it difficult on you, throughout the progression, learning. Were there times when you get out there and just really struggled to make sense of what the defense was doing?
Marcus: I think, you know, it is tough going in as a rookie. You're going to see so many different types of defenses than maybe you did in college. Obviously there's different looks, stuff that was new to me. But if you just kind of go back to what the play is, understand what the coaches are telling you, what they expect of you of that play. You just gotta go through progressions and make sure you can execute.
Reporter: In the transition from high school to college, obviously making that jump up is a big deal. How much can you compare that to what you're doing now.
Marcus: I don't think it's very comparable. I think, this is the NFL, this is the best of the best. You know the speed obviously is so much faster. There's so many great athletes out on the football field. Obviously there is a transition point when you're coming out of high school. But I think the speed and all that is different, really different here.
Reporter: Did you try to resist taking off and running when maybe something was not there? What's kind of your mindset when to go?
Marcus: Same mindset. Continuing to be the player that I have been. First and foremost, it's just, it's just executing the play, what's expected of me as quarterback at the position and from there having the confidence in my abilities to put our team in the best situation.
Reporter: What have the last couple of weeks have been like for you? Are you just fully immersed in this 24-7? Do you have any extra time or is it all business?
Marcus: I mean I went home this past weekend. My brother graduated high school Saturday so I was able to go all the way back to Hawaii and spend time with the family. There are points in time where you can kind of relax and not think so much about football and enjoy time with family. I was fortunate enough to do that this past weekend.
Reporter: Is that important do you think to your maturation and progression to kind of get away for a little bit and come back and not get burned out right off the top?
Marcus: I dont' know. You know I'm very passionate about this game. I love this game so to me I'm not, it's not a burden to go over my plays and to go over this offense. I enjoy it. I enjoy learning and being able to comprehend everything and going out in to the field and executing.
Reporter: You kind of talked about your spacial memory, coach talked about, how's your memory in general? You talked about some of the play calls being rather long. As somebody who didn't have to call those kinds of plays how's your memory for stuff like that in general?
Marcus: I don't know. Just for me repetition is the best solution for that. You know, if you're able to constantly go over things, sooner or later it will stick in your mind. That's kind of basically what I do.
Reporter: Do you have a set number of plays you try to get down per day or anything like that or is it kind of you have the whole thing and bite off chunks?
Marcus: I mean you take sections of what you feel is important. For me obviously you're going to have installs going into each practice so just learning that stuff and being able to have a basis and a foundation for that. And then from there just moving forward and seeing what else you can learn.
Reporter: Marcus, do you have a goal coming in, a personal goal from day one and what was it?
Marcus: My goal was to make an impact. Whether that was on the field or off the field. I wanted to be a part of this team. I wanted to be a part of this community and contribute in any way that I could. I feel that my goal is still attainable. I'm still going to continue to work hard at it so I will continue to put forth my best effort in achieving that.
Reporter: What's your interaction been like with your receiving core and how you feel you are, how much time will it take you to be on the same page with those guys?
Marcus: Since I got here I think I've been able to interact with these guys. You build relationships you learn how these guys are. This is day one OTA, you're going to continue to get better. You're going to learn how guys are, how they break. So we'll be better at that and we'll be ready to go once the season starts.
Reporter: How do you like throwing to the receivers on this team?
Marcus: Unbelievable. There's so much talent out there I think there's great athletes at every skill position. That's exciting. As a quarterback your job is to get those guys that ball and let them do their thing. So I'm going to do my best at that.
Reporter: Do you expect to have a favorite guy at some point?
Marcus: Not at all. You know I don't think you can key in on one guy. The defenses in this league are too small for that. So for me I'm just going to build a relationship with every guy, learn how every guy is, build that chemistry, and be ready to go.
Reporter: Maybe you'll have favorite plays as opposed to favorite guys?
Marcus: I mean not really. Again, it comes down to executing every play that the coaches ask of you. So I'm not too big on having a favorite play or having a favorite receiver. I think if you're able to distribute the ball to everybody, you know everyone is going to make plays for you and you'll put your offense in the best situation.
The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.
20min
The state Department of Labor and Industrial Relations says unemployment in Hawaii remained flat at a seasonally adjusted rate of 4.1 percent in April, the same as the previous three months.
The U.S. Justice Department plans to announce corruption charges against senior officials at FIFA, the world's soccer governing body, law enforcement officials say.
Up to 14 people are expected to be charged Wednesday based on an indictment in federa...
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by . To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

