100,000 &#39dreamers' could lose 3-year work permits
Raul Reynoso, a 26-year-old “dreamer” from Mexico, was surprised to receive a three-year renewal of his federal function permit (correct). His prior permit (left) was for two years.(Photo: David Wallace/The Republic)PHOENIX — Raul Reynoso got a bonus...
PHOENIX — Raul Reynoso got a bonus when he renewed the federal work permit he received through President Obama's 2012 system granting protection from deportation to undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as youngsters.
He was expecting a two-year permit. Alternatively, his new permit doesn't expire for 3 years, till 2017.
The 26-year-old Mesa resident did not even recognize he got the additional year "till I in fact saw somebody post on Facebook that they got it for 3 years. That is when I looked at mine and I saw that it was also for three years."
Reynoso was thrilled he got the three-year permit. Other folks weren't.
USA These days
DOJ appeals hold on immigration executive action
Reynoso is 1 of extra than 100,000 so-called "dreamers" who received 3-year work permits beneath Obama's executive actions on immigration before U.S. District Court Judge Andrew Hanen issued a preliminary injunction temporarily halting the applications in February.
Now Reynoso and the other dreamers are caught a bitter legal dispute over no matter if the Justice Department intentionally misled the judge by failing to disclose that the government had currently started issuing three-year permits to some dreamers.
The revelation, which came to light just after Hanen issued his injunction, has additional incensed 26 states, including Arizona, that have filed a lawsuit searching for to block Obama's programs aimed at providing protection from deportation to an additional 4 million undocumented immigrants.
In this Nov. 14, 2005, file photo, U.S. Southern District Judge Andrew S. Hanen, left, joins with Filemon B. Vela, Jr. and Blanca Vela for the Pledge of Allegiance through the U.S. Courthouse naming ceremony in Brownsville, Texas. Hanen temporarily blocked President Obama&#39s executive action on immigration Feb. 16, 2015, giving a coalition of 26 states time to pursue a lawsuit that aims to permanently cease the orders. (Photo: Brad Doherty, AP)
Hanen, who oversees the U.S. District Court in Brownsville, Texas, issued the injunction Feb. 16, just just before the 1st of Obama's new programs was set to commence accepting applications on Feb. 18.
Now Reynoso and the other folks might have to give back the three-year permits if Hanen determines the Obama administration violated the injunction by failing to tell the judge that the government had already started issuing 3-year permits before Obama's executive actions have been scheduled to start off.
That could leave dreamers such as Reynoso to reapply for two-year permits, or it could leave them with no work permits at all.
"Totally ... it really is anything to be concerned about," stated Reynoso, who performs as an insurance coverage agent and came to the U.S. from Mexico when he was six.
Obama announced on Nov. 20 that since Congress had failed to pass legislation reforming the nation's immigration system, he was going to use his executive authority to present protection from deportation and function permits to about 4 million of the 12 million immigrants in the nation illegally.
USA Now
GOP to attack immigration order by means of taxes
The president's actions included expanding his 2012 system for undocumented immigrants brought to the nation as youngsters by removing an age cap that restricted the plan to these below the age of 31. The actions also developed a new plan for undocumented parents with youngsters who are U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents.
The actions, spelled out in a memo issued by Homeland Safety Secretary Jeh Johnson, also mentioned that helpful Nov. 24, every person approved for protection from deportation would receive 3-year work permits rather of the two-year permits issued beneath the existing 2012 system.
Shortly afterward, Texas and 25 other states filed a federal lawsuit looking for to block Obama's applications from taking effect by arguing they have been produced illegally.
In the meantime, the government issued three-year operate permits to 108,081 people, which includes Reynoso, from Nov. 24 until the injunction was issued. Those people today had applied for protection from deportation below the existing system, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.
But Hanen didn't discover that out until March three, nearly two weeks soon after he issued his injunction, when Justice Division lawyers notified him in court papers.
The judge was furious. For weeks major up to the Feb. 16 injunction, Justice Department lawyers had insisted that the government was not scheduled to commence implementing Obama's applications until Feb. 18.
"So, like an idiot, I believed that," Hanen stated during a testy court hearing March 19.
Ruling expected quickly
Government lawyers contend it was simply an oversight. In the course of the hearing, they told Hanen they were so focused on the start of the new deferred-action programs, they neglected to mention that the government had already started issuing 3-year permits below the old system, which was not affected by Hanen's ruling.
But lawyers from the states want to know if the government intentionally withheld the information figuring out that once the government began issuing 3-year permits, it would be really hard "to place the toothpaste back in the tube."
USA Today
House funds Homeland Safety without immigration riders
They contend the states have currently suffered "irreparable injury" mainly because undocumented immigrants can use their three-year perform permits to get driver's licenses that also last for 3 years. That is mainly because driver's licenses are issued for the length of time a person who receives deferred action can stay lawfully in the U.S.
Hanen is expected to rule any day on a motion filed by the states, asking him to force the Justice Department to turn over documents to decide if the government intentionally misled the court.
The judge mentioned he will also decide no matter if he will order the government to revoke the three-year permits if he determines the government violated the injunction.
"He could order the government to take back the three-year permits and reissue two-year permits. He could do practically nothing. Or he could revoke them altogether," stated Nora Preciado, a lawyer at the National Immigration Law Center, an advocacy organization in Los Angeles.
Over one hundred protesters stood outdoors  the federal courthouse in Brownsville, Texas, on March 19, 2015, holding handmade signs and chanting in megaphones. The Justice Department could possibly face sanctions if U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen determines its attorneys misled him about regardless of whether part of President Obama&#39s executive action on immigration was implemented just before being place on hold by the judge. (Photo: Yvette Vela, AP)
Hanen has currently denied the Justice Department's request to lift the injunction and allow Obama's programs to go forward till the merits of the case can be decided. As a outcome, the Justice Division has filed a motion with the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans to lift Hanen's injunction.
Meanwhile, dreamers across the country are worried about losing their three-year permits.
"The question is, are they going to ask for our permits back?' stated Cesar Espinosa, 29, a Houston resident who received a 3-year permit in December after applying to renew the two-year permit he received in December 2012.
Espinosa said he was happy to receive a 3-year permit for the reason that it costs $465 to apply for deferred action, and the longer permit signifies he will not have to be concerned about coming up with the dollars for an extra year.
He came to the U.S. from Mexico when he was four. He graduated from the University of Houston in 2012 with a degree in political science.
Espinosa is now the executive director of Fiel Houston, a non-profit organization that aids undocumented immigrants apply for deferred action.
"The even tougher query is: What are they going to do with those children that they ask for their permits back? Are (we) going to have to resend it back so they can alter it to two years?" he asked.
"For us it seems kind of like a waste of sources due to the fact you currently developed cards and now you are going to have to reapply again."
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
05 April 2015 Sunday 22:47
39 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.
Breaking News in this Category

