Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I am a senior editor at Reason magazine and a nationally syndicated columnist. I am the author of Saying Yes: In Defense of Drug Use (Tarcher/Penguin) and For Your Own Good: The Anti-Smoking Crusade and the Tyranny of Public Health (Free Press). My work on drug policy and civil liberties has appeared in Cigar Aficionado, Seed, National Review, The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, the San Francisco Chronicle, and many other publications.
Yesterday the Louisiana Senate overwhelmingly approved a bill that would substantially reduce the state’s penalties for marijuana possession, currently among the harshest in the nation. Under current law , possessing even the smallest amount of cannabis is punishable by up to six months in jail and a $500 fine for the first offense, up to five years and a $2,500 fine for a second offense, and up to 20 years and a $5,000 fine for subsequent offenses. Under S.B. 241 , which the Senate approved by a vote of 27 to 12, possessing less than 14 grams of marijuana (about half an ounce) would be punishable by no more than 15 days in jail and/or a $300 fine. The maximum term would rise to six months for a second offense, two years for a third offense, and eight years for subsequent offenses. The corresponding maximum fines would be $1,000, $2,500, and $5,000, respectively.
Those penalties are still pretty heavy, especially compared to what you get for possessing up to 10 grams in Maryland (a $100 civil fine), up to 28.5 grams in California (ditto), up to an ounce in Colorado or Washington  (nothing), or less than two ounces in the District of Columbia  (ditto). But if the Louisiana House of Representatives approves S.B. 241 and Gov. Bobby Jindal signs the bill, it will at least no longer be even theoretically possible to serve two decades in prison for being caught with a joint on three different occasions in the Pelican State. “This is a long-sought opportunity to take a more compassionate and commonsense approach to marijuana,” says  Yolande Cadore, director of strategic partnerships at the Drug Policy Alliance (DPA). “Louisiana’s overdue for a major overhaul of its drug policies, and this is a good first step.”
Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
DPA mentions the case of  Bernard Noble , who was sentenced to  13 years in prison  after New Orleans police caught him with three grams of marijuana in 2010. That prison term was dictated by Louisiana’s “habitual offender” law  because Noble had two prior convictions for minor, nonviolent marijuana and cocaine offenses. It looks like Noble would not have received such a jaw-dropping penalty if S.B. 241 had been law when he was arrested on those marijuana charges, since they would not have qualified as felonies. DPA notes that”the U.S. has the highest incarceration rate of any country in the world,” while “Louisiana has the highest rate in the U.S.,” thanks largely to its draconian mandatory minimums.
How does your state’s treatment of cannabis consumers compare to Louisiana’s? Probably pretty well, even if you don’t live in a state that has legalized or decriminalized marijuana possession.
Texas , where I live, has a reputation for being tough on crime. Like Louisiana, it treats possession of even the smallest amounts of marijuana as a misdemeanor punishable by up to six months in jail. (A bill that would make possessing up to an ounce a civil offense punishable by a $100 fine won committee approval in the state House this month but did not get a floor vote.) Still, Texas has nothing like Louisiana’s sharply escalating penalties for repeat marijuana offenders, although it does have a two-year mandatory minimum that kicks in at five pounds, and it treats cannabis concentrates much more severely than bud, which can result in remarkably onerous penalties , such as 20 years to life for a pound and a half of hash-infused cookies and brownies.
Oklahoma is closer to Louisiana and in some ways harsher, allowing a sentence up to a year for a first offense involving any amount of marijuana. That rises to 10 years, with a two-year minimum, for a second offense. Alabama has the same maximum sentences for first and second offenses, plus a one-year mandatory minimum for possession beyond personal use, which includes sharing with friends.
The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws has a state-by-state rundown of marijuana penalties  here . The trend toward legalization, which now includes Alaska and Oregon as well as Colorado and Washington, makes the disparities even more striking. When one state threatens cannabis consumers with years in prison and another threatens them with no punishment at all, something has to give.
Enter Your Comment
Share

