Ontario bans sale of flavoured tobacco, puts limits on e-cigarettes 0
By Antonella Artuso , Queen's Park Bureau Chief
Tuesday, May 26, 2015       8:06:17 EDT PM
PC MPP Randy Hillier (left) and Andy Prevost, of Tobacco Harm Reduction Association, ask Ontario government to delay parts of Bill 45 which would impact sale and use of vapourizers Tuesday, May 26, 2015 at Queen's Park. (Antonella Artuso/Toronto Sun)
Print
TORONTO - 
Ontario has passed legislation that will ban the sale of flavoured tobacco, put new limits on e-cigarettes and require restaurant and convenience store chains to post calorie counts for their food and drink items.
Associate Health Minister Dipika Damerla said in an interview that the Making Healthier Choices Act, which received third reading Tuesday, addresses two main threats to modern health — smoking and calorie consumption.
“It really puts Ontario at the forefront on so many counts, especially in Canada, but I would say across North America,” she said. “We’re among the first jurisdictions to regulate electronic cigarettes. We’re among the first jurisdictions in Canada and North America to ban menthol cigarettes and definitely the first jurisdiction in Canada to now have calorie counts in Ontario’s chain restaurants.”
Businesses will no longer be allowed to sell flavoured tobacco — it comes in kid-friendly tastes like cherry and grape — as of Jan. 1, 2016.
The Ontario government has until Jan. 1, 2018, to ban menthol cigarettes but the minister said she will likely act before that date.
Stores and restaurants with 20 or more locations in Ontario must begin prominently identifying calories for regular food and drink items by Jan 1, 2017.
As of Jan. 1, 2016 it will be illegal to sell e-cigarettes and vaporizers to anyone under the age of 19.
Adults will not be permitted to use e-cigarettes anywhere where smoking is prohibited, although an enforcement date has not been set.
Stores will not be allowed to advertise the products.
Progressive Conservative MPP Randy Hillier has asked the provincial government to delay the section of the bill that would see e-cigarettes and vaporizers treated in law like cigarettes.
Hillier is using a vaporizer — users inhale vapour, not smoke — to help kick his own tobacco habit.
“I haven’t quit smoking completely but I have reduced smoking substantially,” he said. “Three of my staff members have quit smoking completely with the use of vapourizers. The benefits are substantial.”
Hillier was joined by David Sweanor, a University of Ottawa adjunct law professor, and Andy Prevost, of the Tobacco Harm Reduction Association, Tuesday at a Queen’s Park media conference where they argued that the benefits of vaporizers as a smoking cessation product are ignored in the new law.
The smoke and additives in regular cigarettes pose the greatest risk to human health, not the controllable amounts of nicotine in vaporizers, Prevost said.
Damerla said vaping will continue to be legal in Ontario but limits are needed on a nicotine product in the interest of public health.
“Right now, you can be 13-years-old — you can’t legally buy a cigarette but you can buy an electronic cigarette because there’s absolutely no regulation,” she said. “Right now, you could vape on a subway, you could vape in the Ontario legislature if you wanted to. You could vape in a classroom.
“People don’t do that but technically you could,” Damerla said.
Reader's comments »
If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.
By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules.
Featured Businesses
Share your story, photo or video about something you've seen.
Start your day with Sault Star
Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
Powered by Fatwire

