House Votes for Medicaid expansion - KTVQ.com | Q2 | Continuous News Coverage | Billings, MT
Posted:
Updated:
HELENA -
The Montana House of Representatives voted Thursday evening in favor of a bill to expand the federal Medicaid program.
After a couple of days of procedural questions, 13 Republicans joined all the House Democrats to support Senate Bill 405, sponsored by MT Sen. Ed Buttrey (R-Great Falls) and carried on the House floor by MT Rep. Rob Cook (R-Conrad).
The bill calls for Medicaid recipients to pay part of the plan's costs and encourages them to better their job prospects. It also shortens the time in which patients and bring malpractice claims against medical providers.
Supporters say it will save lives, create jobs and save rural hospitals, while also calling for personal responsibility.
Opponents say it encourages government dependency and creates major new costs for the state. Opponents have also said Medicaid fails to actually accomplish the mission of improving the health of its beneficiaries.
Opponents attempted to add amendments on the House floor, but each wad voted down.
“The fix is in,” said MT Rep. Art Wittich (R-Belgrade), an opponent who brought some of the amendments.
He mocked the argument that hospitals are in tough financial shape, noting that they all seem to be making money in Montana, with some executives making seven-figure incomes. He said hospital lobbyists wrote the bill and that the “medical-industrial complex” is alive and well in Montana.
Wittich still had amendments to introduce when the House voted for cloture, meaning an end to the debate.
MT Rep. Nick Schwaderer (R-Superior), likened expansion to federal policies that led to the destruction of his region's timber industry.
“And then here they come - a bankrupt federal government with a stack of cash and we're supposed to be grateful,” he said. “All this bill is is a gimmick to give hospitals, pharmacies, providers a bunch of money and purchase the votes of the sick, vulnerable and poor.”
MT Rep. Nancy Ballance (R-Hamilton) said the bill would affect 55,000 Montanans, of 5.5 percent of Montana's population. (Buttrey has said it would expand coverage to about 45,000 people.)
“Working age adults with no disabilities no children who would be added to a new medical welfare program,” Ballance said. And those new enrollees would compete with the disabled for limited medical resources.
“These people are working people,” MT Rep. Geraldine Custer (R-Forsyth) countered. “These are working poor. These are the waitresses, the clerks, those kind of people. They're not the people. They're not the people who are laying on the couch and watching TV and hoping for a handout.”
The bill has a final vote expected Friday.
If it passes, it then goes back to the Senate to reconcile one amendment added in the House.
WEATHER
Thursday, April 9 2015 4:21 PM EDT2015-04-09 20:21:15 GMT
Brayden Travis, 18 years old, has struggled with drug addiction since age 15, and has been hospitalized for weeks after an overdose that doctors say should have killed him.
Brayden Travis, 18 years old, has struggled with drug addiction since age 15, and has been hospitalized for weeks after an overdose that doctors say should have killed him.
Thursday, April 9 2015 11:06 AM EDT2015-04-09 15:06:08 GMT
Jenny Michaelson sits in her living room with Nacho, her golden retriever. Ed Kemmick/Last Best News
Jenny Michaelson was one of the lucky ones.She managed to get her dog back after it had been impounded by Yellowstone County. But Michaelson, who lives just west of Billings off Grand Avenue, gives no credit to the county for the return of Nacho, her golden retriever.
Jenny Michaelson was one of the lucky ones.She managed to get her dog back after it had been impounded by Yellowstone County. But Michaelson, who lives just west of Billings off Grand Avenue, gives no credit to the county for the return of Nacho, her golden retriever.
Thursday, April 9 2015 11:47 AM EDT2015-04-09 15:47:46 GMT
Tayari Meadows has been charged with human trafficking after a missing Las Vegas girl was found in North Dakota. (KXNews photo)
A 20-­year-­old woman has been arrested on a human trafficking charge in a case involving a 14-­year-­old girl.
A 20-­year-­old woman has been arrested on a human trafficking charge in a case involving a 14-­year-­old girl.
UPDATE
Thursday, April 9 2015 2:42 PM EDT2015-04-09 18:42:32 GMT
   

