Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garcia at the Providence of God Roman Catholic Church, 18th and Union, prior to the start of Friday's Stations of the Cross procession. | Brian Jackson/For the Sun-Times
Mayor Rahm Emanuel on Friday defended his decision to attach another string to his signature offer of free City Colleges tuition to B-student graduates at Chicago Public Schools, and backed away from the CTA’s controversial Ashland Avenue bus rapid transit plan.
Both stances had been criticized by mayoral challenger Jesus “Chuy” Garcia, who called the City College scholarships a product of an Emanuel smoke machine, while citing a “multitude of concerns” about the $160 million plan for the Ashland BRT.
The debate over the two issues came on a busy Good Friday for the two candidates heading into their final weekend of campaigning before Tuesday’s first-ever mayoral runoff, as each hit campaign stops citywide in efforts to persuade voters.
The Chicago Sun-Times reported this week that half the 5,264 students who graduated last year with a 3.0 grade-point average would be disqualified by the additional requirement that they score at least a 21 on both the math and English sections of the ACT.
That dramatically limits the reach of a scholarship offer that has been a focus of Emanuel’s campaign commercials and standard stump speeches and a key selling point in his pitch to African-American voters who are expected to decide Tuesday’s runoff.
On Friday, the mayor defended the additional string attached.
“Since we’re taking the money of remedial education . . . and it’s going into rewarding, in my view, success, we want to make sure those kids can achieve that. It ensures the integrity of it. We work with the kids for a year. It’s different than other scholarships. We actually help you get this. It’s unique, which is why the president also came up with a national model,” the mayor said.
“You know the cost of college is one of the crushing effects on middle-class families. We’re providing, for the first time, not only free [tuition] if you earn a B average so you have a responsibility. We’re also providing you a community college system whose education now counts for something,” Emanuel said. “The community colleges are focused on the jobs we’re getting today. We’re making sure that no family gets crushed by the cost of higher education. You have to earn a B average. And we even help you along the way for at least a year so you can get it.”
That’s not how Garcia sees the so-called “Star Scholarship” program.
“It sounds great, but in effect, it will benefit very few students. . . . In reality, very few students will be eligible for it and those [who] have a B average and a 21 on the ACT test — they’re probably better off going to a state university or a college,” Garcia said during a taping of the WLS-AM (890) Radio program, “Connected to Chicago” to be broadcast at 7 p.m. Sunday.
“It’s largely another P.R. effort on the part of the mayor to say that he’s doing great things for ordinary people in Chicago. . . . He can afford to buy all of those ads and tout so many things. And people have a hard time, sometimes, understanding spin from reality,” he said.
Garcia pointed to a recent study by the University of Chicago Consortium on Chicago School Research that raised questions about the long-term effects of steering CPS students to a two-year college. The study shows only 7 percent of CPS students who enroll in a two-year college end up with a degree.
Also on Friday, Emanuel described the CTA’s plan to build 16 miles of dedicated bus rapid transit lanes down the center of Ashland as “way down the road” and not an immediate priority for him.
As originally outlined, the Ashland BRT plan would create dedicated bus lanes down Ashland from Irving Park to 95th Street, and place boarding stations in center islands. All other traffic — cars, trucks and possibly the regular Ashland Avenue bus — would be relegated to mostly one lane of travel in either direction.
A former city traffic expert labeled the idea “ill-conceived,” saying it doesn’t mirror other BRT systems that have at least twice as much capacity for regular traffic on their BRT street or within a block of it.
In addition, the CTA’s initial proposal called for allowing only a handful of left turns from Ashland — and only onto expressway ramps. That raised concerns that businesses would be cut off from patrons and trucks would be making three right turns through residential areas to access loading areas or make deliveries.
“First and foremost, we’re doing bus rapid downtown. [Ashland] is way down the road. Before we even get there, we’ve got to make sure bus rapid transit works here,” the mayor said.
Emanuel was asked whether the avalanche of criticism about the configuration of the Ashland BRT from local aldermen, community leaders and area residents has given him pause about proceeding with the project.
“We’re not even gonna address that for years down the road. We’ve got to make sure that what we’re building here between Washington and Madison connecting the east and west ends of the Loop bus rapid transit” succeeds in speeding downtown bus trips, he said.
“It’s even two years away from even starting. Then, you’ve got to make sure it works. Before you do anything — even discuss it — you’ve got to make sure this thing, which is a better and cheaper alternative than the light rail, works.”
Garcia has cited concerns about the Ashland BRT ranging from the limited number of car lanes and left turns, to the impact on local commerce.
“This project cannot be approved in its current form, and frankly may never be appropriate for approval,” Garcia told the Chicago Sun-Times last month.
Emanuel spent the day Friday visiting a phone bank, speaking at the Chicago Defender’s “Women of Excellence” luncheon, and attending a ribbon-cutting ceremony at ZirMed, a new health care technology firm that opened its first Chicago office in the West Loop with initial plans to hire 200 or more advanced health care technologists.
“Don’t feel capped by hitting 200 [jobs]. If you want to go right past it, we’ll get you some Gatorade and you can keep going. Don’t stop there, OK?” Emanuel told ZirMed employees.
Garcia started his day at Providence of God Roman Catholic Church in Pilsen, where he participated in the Stations of the Cross procession. Later that morning, he held a news conference on public education at Darwin Elementary School, and also visited with seniors in Chatham, accompanied by the Rev. Jesse Jackson Sr.
Also on Friday, the campaigns took shots at each other — over the mayor’s refusal to honor a Freedom of Information request for emails between his office and a top donor, and a public letter issued by a group of Hispanic community and business leaders endorsing Emanuel.
CPS teacher Froylan Jimenez, joined by Cook County Clerk David Orr and Ald. Ricardo Munoz (22nd), and other Garcia supporters held a news conference outside City Hall Friday denouncing Emanuel for not honoring a month-old FOIA request for the emails between him and his campaign donor Michael Sacks, an Emanuel appointee.
“We do not live in a fiefdom, and Mayor Emanuel does not have the imperial power to deny the public access to public records,” said Orr. “By refusing to make these emails public, Mayor Emanuel is undermining two of the most essential components of democratic rule — transparency and public accountability.”
The Emanuel campaign had not responded by deadline.
The letter issued by 25 Hispanic community and business leaders endorsing Emanuel slammed Garcia as unprepared to be mayor.
“With all due respect, Garcia does not have the resume and broad managerial background to run Chicago. . . . As an elected official, he has a career where ideology ignores reality. As a candidate, he has repeatedly said that he is still doing his research. At this point, Chuy has shown us he is not ready,” said the letter, signed by four people on the group’s behalf, including Jesse Ruiz, vice president of the Chicago Board of Education.
Munoz, speaking on behalf of the Garcia campaign, dismissed the letter and the individuals as not representing the Latino community.
“There’s obviously a disconnect between them and neighborhood residents, because Chuy got an overwhelming chunk of the Latino vote in February. When the power structure is threatened, they always use this tactic of divide and conquer,” Munoz said.
Mayor Rahm Emanuel shakes hands with an employee at ZirMed​ Friday​ after welcoming the health care technology company and its 200 jobs to the West Loop. | Fran Spielman/Sun-Times
Early voting is nearly double what it was before the February election. What does that mean? ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ http://t.co/04MpvdeYyT
The teen convicted of robbing Rahm Emanuel's son won't stand trial for lying to cops http://t.co/NSjwql1tNf
Latest
Chicago Sun-Times Network Info

