Jim Dabakis throws hat into ring for Salt Lake City mayor
Jim Dabakis
Monday's announcement has a lot of voters scratching their heads. Wait a minute. I thought they were all friends. Are they enemies now? What's going on?
SALT LAKE CITY (ABC 4 Utah) Monday's announcement has a lot of voters scratching their heads. Wait a minute. I thought they were all friends. Are they enemies now? What's going on?
Most of us have seen the video of Jim being married to his partner by Mayor Ralph Becker, his new opponent. They must be friends right?
Then there was Dabakis at the news conference called by another mayoral candidate Jackie Biskupski.
"I don't hate anybody. I like all these people. These people are all my friends including Luke Garrott. This isn't like Washington where people are in armed camps and they hate each other," said Dabakis.
"You know I welcome him. I think it speaks volumes about the need for a new mayor in Salt Lake City and I think its also historic to have two openly gay candidates running for Salt Lake City mayor which is exciting. I think it says a lot about how we're going as a city," said Biskupski.
"Jim is Jim. We all love him for it. He's got his perspective in the way he runs things. You know, Jim is Jim and we love him for it," said Matt Lyon, Mayor Becker's Campaign Manager.
Sounds like a love fest so far, but wait. City Councilman Luke Garrott who will announce later this month, came out fighting. He says "When a mayor neglects the issues of everyday residents, it opens the door for loud characters like Jim Dabakis who are always seeking the spotlight."
Both Dabakis and Biskupski say the important thing is not sexual orientation. It's the issues. So at least three of the four candidates plan to stay positive and avoid attacks.
"You know I have a vision for our city, Randall. I have a vision of energy and enthusiasm. I have a vision of excitement," said Dabakis.
They may not agree on everything but there is one thing they're all saying today. This announcement has made the race a lot more interesting.
Copyright 2015 good4utah.com Nexstar Broadcasting, All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Top Stories

