Case-Shiller: Home prices rise in Portland, major United States cities
Contributed by admin on May 26, 2015 at 8:08 pm
Home prices have posted year-over-year gains for the last 35 straight months, notes David Blitzer, Managing Director & Chairman of the Index Committee for S&P Dow Jones Indices.
Cleveland saw the largest slide, with home prices falling 1.2 percent from March 2014. More construction, particularly of cheaper properties, would help boost supply and bring purchases within reach of more Americans looking to take advantage of low borrowing costs.
Maryland was the only other state where home prices lost ground.
“The annual rate of increase halved in the last year, ” he said in a written statement, adding that price gains should continue to level out. Gains in this hard-hit city speak to general strength for house prices. The March figures are the latest available. The HPI data is taken from home sales price information from mortgages sold to, or guaranteed by, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
In half of those 20 cities, the annual pace of price growth picked up from February to March, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller Home Price Indices. Prices increased at the same pace in February. Prices there are up 13.4 percent in the past year.
“All of this suggests that some future moderation in home prices gains is likely, ” Blitzer said. Dallas reported a 9.3% year-over-year gain to round out the top 3 cities. They jumped 2.6 percent in Detroit, while Cleveland showed the smallest gain at 0.1 percent. Would-be buyers have fewer homes to choose from, which has sparked bidding wars in many cities. The National Association of Realtors (NAR) estimated that median prices for existing homes rose by nearly 9 percent nationally in April. That’s the shortest span since the middle of 2013, said Lawrence Yun, the group’s chief economist. Both adjusted and unadjusted data show plus 5.0% year-on-year rates for both March and February in what is a rising trend from prior months. Inc. remains upbeat.
In a webcast, Blitzer said that the housing market was “staging a substantial recovery” with higher prices and overall sales numbers. First, double digit home price increases would create an affordability issues. “Home prices are now, on average, roughly 20 percent above where they were three years ago”.
Recent Posts
Berdych rolls in French opener May 26, 2015
Copyright © 2015 Rapid News Network. All Rights Reserved.

