President Obama speaks about clean energy after a tour of a solar power array at Hill Air Force Base in Utah on April 3. (Jonathan Ernst/Reuters)
By David Nakamura and Juliet Eilperin April 3 at 2:28 PM Follow @davidnakamura Follow @eilperin
HILL AIR FORCE BASE, Utah — President Obama sought to gain support for his economic agenda in this heavily Republican state Friday as he launched a new initiative to expand the nation’s solar industry workforce .
Obama made his first visit to Utah as he pushed his argument to increase federal spending levels in next year’s budget in the face of GOP opposition on Capitol Hill. The president visited a field of solar panels here as the Department of Energy announced it will seek to train 75,000 people — including veterans — to enter the solar workforce by 2020, increasing the goal it set in May 2014 by 25,000 workers.
“We’ve got to be relentless in our work to grow the economy and create good jobs,” Obama said after the brief tour, adding that other nations are seeking to expand their economies, as well. “And that’s why we have to redouble our efforts to make sure that we’re competitive, to make sure that we’re taking the steps that are needed for us to be successful.”
Dan Utech, deputy special assistant to the president for energy and climate change, told reporters in a phone call Friday that the initiative reflects the president’s conviction that “no challenge poses a greater threat to future generations than climate change.”
President Obama, accompanied by Col. Ronald E. Jolly, commander of the 75th Air Base Wing at Hill Air Force Base tours a solar array at the base April 3. (Carolyn Kaster/AP)
Utech noted that the solar industry is adding jobs 10 times faster than the rest of the economy and many of them are in construction and installation. Last year, the U.S. solar industry installed 6,201 megawatts (MW) of solar photovoltaics and 767 MW of concentrating solar power, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association — enough to power the equivalent of about 1.4 million homes.
“We’ve made huge strides in recent years,” Utech said, noting that the industry had grown 20-fold between 2008 and 2014 . “It’s also creating jobs, good-paying American jobs.”
Obama has strategically visited red states in recent weeks to push proposals that he believes have bipartisan support. He stopped in Louisville on Thursday evening to tout investment in technology; last week, he visited Birmingham, Ala., to unveil new federal protections against predatory lenders.
Utah gave Obama’s 2012 challenger Mitt Romney his biggest victory in the election, 73 percent to 25 percent. Though Romney, who has retired to the Salt Lake suburbs, did not attend the event, Obama was greeted at the airport by Sens. Orrin G. Hatch and Mike Lee and Gov. Gary R. Herbert, all Republicans.
The president also met privately Thursday evening with leaders of the Mormon church to talk about issues including immigration reform.
The Energy Department will also join with the Pentagon to run the “Solar Ready Vets” program, which prepares veterans to work in the solar industry, at 10 military bases across the country. Those bases will include Hill Air Force Base, which has already installed solar panels on site, as well as California’s Camp Pendleton, Colorado’s Fort Carson and Naval Station Norfolk in Virginia.
Energy Deputy Secretary Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall said during the call with reporters that the pilot program on Camp Pendleton had already produced results: Of the 20 Marines who completed training on Feb. 13, every one received at least one job offer from the five major U.S. solar firms that are recruiting as part of the program.
The transition from active military duty to the private sector “is a vulnerable moment for many of our veterans, and, of course, we want to support them in whatever way possible,” Sherwood-Randall said.
She added that the training program — which is free for military personnel — is an intensive, four- to six-week session in which participants learn to install solar panels and electrical systems and interpret building codes and are trained to serve as sales representatives and solar system inspectors.
DOE has already spent $27 million on its nationwide solar instructor training network, Sherwood-Randall said, but she could not estimate the cost of expanding the program to several additional military bases.
As part of the new solar initiative, federal officials will also work to make G.I. Bill funding available to support solar workforce training for veterans, while also educating veterans on the job opportunities now available in the solar industry.
David Nakamura covers the White House. He has previously covered sports, education and city government and reported from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Japan.
Juliet Eilperin is The Washington Post's White House bureau chief, covering domestic and foreign policy as well as the culture of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. She is the author of two books—one on sharks, and another on Congress, not to be confused with each other—and has worked for the Post since 1998.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

