Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Alabama bill fails in attempt to ban teenagers riding in back of pickups
Truck.jpg
The ground and parts of the truck were charred from a fire that broke out after the truck crashed. (Paul Huggins/phuggins@al.com)
For the second straight year, the Alabama House of Representatives has shot down a bill that would forbid teenagers to ride in the bed of a pickup truck.
It might have had something to do with many of them riding in the back of pickups themselves.
Rep. Terri Collins, R-Decatur, asked for a show of hands if they've ridden in the back of a truck. Almost all House members, according to The Associated Press, raised their hands.
"I believe it is up to the parents to make that decision," she said, per per AL.com , if teenagers should ride in the back of trucks. "I believe that is my decision to make. Legislating that is not something I want to support."
The Alabama House of Representatives on Thursday refused to debate a bill that would prohibit kids under 19 from riding in the back of pickup trucks on a state or federal highway. Rep. Kerry Rich, R-Albertville, brought the bill following a fatal 2013 accident that killed four young people and injured five others when a pickup truck flipped in north Alabama.
The legislation would have only affected teenagers ages 16-18 because younger teens are already required to be restrained by a seat belt or child safety seat.  
In the first year of the bill only warnings would be issued. The next year a fine up to $50 could be issued.
Under current Alabama law, anyone riding in the front seats of a vehicle is required to wear a seat belt. 
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy
© 2015 Alabama Live LLC [al.com and gulflive.com]. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

