Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Congress struggles to find highway funding
Lawmakers from Congress members of both parties agree that the nation's crumbling highways and bridges urgently need fixing, The question is, how should it be paid for?
Post to Facebook
Congress struggles to find highway funding Lawmakers from Congress members of both parties agree that the nation's crumbling highways and bridges urgently need fixing, The question is, how should it be paid for? Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1FFglyr
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
2
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Congress struggles to find highway funding
Erin Kelly, USA TODAY 11:29 a.m. EDT April 9, 2015
Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx
(Photo: Cliff Owen, AP)
WASHINGTON — Lawmakers from both parties agree that the nation's crumbling highways and bridges urgently need fixing. The question is, how should it be paid for?
The government's ability to provide money to the states from the federal Highway Trust Fund will expire on May 31 unless Congress acts. The fund reimburses states for the cost of highway improvements and mass transit projects.
Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia, Mississippi, Tennessee and Wyoming have already delayed construction of transportation projects because of the uncertainty over federal funding, according to the U.S. Department of Transportation. Summer is typically the peak season for road construction.
Although raising the gas tax would be the simplest way to keep the trust fund going, many lawmakers — especially House Republicans — don't want to make voters angry by increasing the price that drivers have to pay at the pump.
House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, said early this year that funding highway improvements is a top priority for congressional leaders but that "it's doubtful the votes are here to raise the gas tax again."
The tax, which is 18.4 cents per gallon, was last raised in 1993. The highway fund is facing a shortfall of about $169 billion over the next 10 years, according to projections by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office.
"They (members of Congress) have kicked the can down the road for years and now we have a crisis," said Kathleen Bower, vice president of public affairs for AAA. "Most of them recognize in their heart of hearts that the way to fund this is through raising the gas tax. But it's politically untenable. No one is showing the political courage to do what is good for the nation."
About 65% of America's roads are in less than good condition, 25% of bridges need to be replaced, and public transit faces a repair backlog of about $86 billion, according to a February report by the Transportation Department.
AAA is advocating an increase in the federal gas tax of 12 to 15 cents per gallon, Bower said. She said clogged roads and potholes are costing Americans more than that — an average of $324 a year in wasted fuel and car repairs.
"We believe (a higher gas tax) is a very fair and efficient system," Bower said.
House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, has said that funding highway improvements is a top priority for congressional leaders.
 (Photo: Skip Peterson, AP)
But opponents of raising the gas tax say Congress should be able to find other ways to pay for transportation improvements.
"Congress shouldn't make families pay more at the pump because they can't set priorities and spend responsibly," said Andy Koenig, a senior policy advisor at Freedom Partners, a conservative group that advocates smaller government. "Congress doesn't need more money; they need to make smarter decisions."
Lawmakers and the Obama administration are scrambling to find other ways to fund transportation.
The administration has proposed a six-year bill worth $478 billion that would be paid for by a one-time repatriation of business taxes from overseas at a 14% rate. The bill would increase highway spending 29% to $317 billion over six years while also boosting funding for mass transit.
"Obviously this is an issue that Congress has to solve," Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx told reporters at a roundtable on April 2. "We have put our ideas on the table, and we continue to look forward to Congress putting their ideas on the table."
Congress has not reached consensus on any one plan. Sens. Rand Paul, R-Ky., and Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., are joining together on a repatriation tax bill. Oregon Sen. Ron Wyden, the senior Democrat on the Finance Committee, advocates selling bonds to private investors to help finance transportation projects. House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan, R-Wis., wants to come up with a highway funding plan as part of a more sweeping overhaul of the the U.S. tax system.
If Congress cannot agree on a plan by May 31, Foxx said he could support a short-term funding extension if it is tied to finding a long-term, reliable funding source for transportation projects. But he said 32 short-term extensions over the last six years have made it difficult for state and local officials to plan their transportation projects because they never know whether the federal government will come through with the money or how much money they will get.
"The problem that's hard to see out of Washington is that short-term extensions are toxic to the kind of large-scale investments we need to be making as a country," he said.
Contributing: Bart Jansen
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1FFglyr

