First Published May 25 2015 10:21AM    •    Last Updated May 25 2015 10:25 am
Cleveland Cavaliers center Tristan Thompson (13) celebrates with Cleveland Cavaliers guard Matthew Dellavedova (8) Thompson blocked a Atlanta Hawks ball during the second half in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals of the NBA basketball playoffs, Friday, May 22, 2015, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/David Goldman)
Cleveland Cavaliers center Tristan Thompson (13) celebrates with Cleveland Cavaliers guard Matthew Dellavedova (8) Thompson blocked a Atlanta Hawks ball during the second half in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals of the NBA basketball playoffs, Friday, May 22, 2015, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/David Goldman)
Share This Article
ARTICLE PHOTO GALLERY (4)
Matthew Dellavedova once broke BYU's hearts. In the NBA playoffs, he's tearing opponents apart, physically and emotionally.
The former Saint Mary's guard, now playing for the Cleveland Cavaliers, never will be forgotten in Provo. In a January 2013 game, Dellavedova responded to BYU guard Tyler Haws' go-ahead shot with 2.5 seconds remaining by quickly dribbling down the court and delivering a 40-footer that beat the buzzer and gave the Gaels a 70-69 victory.
His methods of devastation are more varied in the NBA playoffs these days. Although he's not shooting especially well, Dellavedova has filled in nicely for injured star Kyrie Irving in the Cavaliers' victories over Atlanta in Games 2 and 3 of the Eastern Conference semifinals. The Australian scored a total of 28 points in those two games, including 17 in Sunday's 114-111 overtime win.
TOP JOBS
VIDEOS
His biggest impact, though, has been in eliminating opponents. In pursuing a loose ball in Game 2, Dellavedova caused Atlanta guard Kyle Korver to severely injure his ankle, sidelining him for the rest of the playoffs.
In Game 3, Dellavedova became entangled with Atlanta's Al Horford, resulting in Horford's flagrant foul and ejection. A similar incident had occurred with Chicago's Taj Gibson in the East semifinals.
Cleveland teammate LeBron James said Sunday that Dellavedova is just being competitive and getting a "a bad rap" from those who believe he's a dirty player.
Whatever the case, he's making quite an impact. BYU's battles with West Coast Conference king Gonzaga largely have defined the Cougars' first four years of league membership, but competing with Dellavedova also has been a big element of the school's WCC era.
The Gaels swept BYU in his senior season, then the Cougars spoiled his No. 4 jersey retirement ceremony in 2014 with a victory at Saint Mary's. Dellavedova wears No. 8 in the NBA, and the Cougars undoubtedly are glad he's somebody else's problem now.
POPULAR SPORTS

