Radical Left Seeks To Rally Black Voters Against Mayor Rahm
9:52 AM  04/04/2015
The Chicago Teachers Union and other organizations are making a last-ditch effort this Passover Weekend to energize black voters to kick Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel out of office in favor of Jesús “Chuy” Garcia, a Mexican-born, impressively mustachioed Democrat far to Emanuel’s left.
Emanuel and Garcia are the last two mayoral candidates standing in a run-off election scheduled for Tuesday.
The aptly named “Rally to Elect Chuy Garcia” will occur on Saturday afternoon at Mt. Pilgrim MB Church — a large Baptist church on the Second City’s West Garfield Park neighborhood.
The residents of West Garfield Park are over 96 percent black.
The Saturday afternoon rally will feature several high-profile speakers.
Chicago Teachers Union president Karen Lewis will speak. The 61-year-old Dartmouth graduate who earns $235,953 and owns two vacation homes has suffered defeats in several political battles during Emanuel’s first term. She seriously mulled her own bid against the current mayor, using her union’s considerable local power to raise $2 million. She even headed to Mexico for weight reduction surgery. (RELATED: Fresh Off WEIGHT REDUCTION SURGERY IN MEXICO, Karen Lewis May Run Against Mayor Rahm)
Another speaker will be emeritus Princeton University professor Cornel West, who has suggested that the government of the United States could have been behind the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks. (RELATED: Cornel West Came Out As Supporting 9/11 Truthers At Million Muslim March)
A third speaker will be “special guest” Newark, N.J. mayor “Ras J. Baraka!” (exclamation point in two invitations sent by the Chicago Teachers Union). Baraka is the son of radical poet and political activist Amiri Baraka, who wrote a poem claiming that President George W. Bush and a bunch of Jewish people knew about the Sept. 11 attacks. Part of it goes:
Who knew the World Trade Center was gonna get bombed
Who told 4000 Israeli workers at the Twin Towers
To stay home that day
Still another speaker at the April 4 rally will be Che “Rhymefest” Smith, an obscure hip hop singer and failed politician whose parents named him after named after Che Guevara, the murderous Marxist revolutionary.
Also slated to speak at the rally are Jesse Jackson and Chicago Congressman Danny Davis.
Garcia himself will also make an appearance.
The rally will culminate in a “March to the Polls” at 4:15 p.m.
Recent polls show that Emanuel has managed to put some breathing room between himself and Garcia in his quest to win a second term.
Emanuel won 35 out of 50 city wards in the first round of the election, which featured five candidates. Garcia was able to keep pace largely by winning huge swathes of the vote in heavily Hispanic wards. (RELATED: Young Mayor Rahm Was A SHIRTLESS BADASS Who Took On The Nazis In The Summer Of ’78)

