Talking points
Nine things you may have missed Tuesday from the world of business
Amazon will hire 6,000 full-time workers
NEW YORK — Amazon is hiring 6,000 full-time workers to staff up at its 50-plus US distribution centers. The workers will pick, pack, and ship products. Currently, Amazon has about 50,000 full-time workers at the centers. It has been opening distribution centers across the country in order to speed up deliveries. Its $99 annual Prime membership service comes with free two-day delivery on many items. The company, with 154,100 full- and part-time workers at the end of 2014, has been expanding Prime, adding services such as grocery delivery, one-hour delivery in some cities, and beefed-up video streaming. Amazon will be hiring in 12 states, but in New England that includes only Windsor, Conn. — ASSOCIATED PRESS
Banking
Faulty reports to SEC cost Deutsche Bank $55 million
WASHINGTON — Deutsche Bank AG will pay $55 million to settle civil charges it filed incorrect reports during the financial crisis that downplayed the risks it was taking. The Securities and Exchange Commission said the German bank neither admitted to nor denied the allegations but agreed to refrain from future violations. In two quarterly reports in 2008 and 2009, the SEC said, the bank inflated the value of transactions designed to hedge against losses on securities in the credit markets, which were turbulent at the time. That created a ‘‘gap risk’’ worth billions of dollars that wasn’t properly accounted for. Deutsche Bank said it has not had any losses related to the ‘‘gap risk’’ because it never materialized. — ASSOCIATED PRESS
Food
Taco Bell, Pizza Hut to dump artificial flavors and colors
Automotive
Average Mass. gas prices rises 3 cents
The average price of a gallon of gasoline in Massachusetts rose 3 cents last week, hitting $2.66, according to AAA Northeast. Prices have steadily increased since bottoming out at $2.06 a gallon in early February, but they’re still nearly $1 lower than a year ago. Prices at stations surveyed by AAA ranged from $2.53 to $2.89, and the state average was 8 cents below the national average. Oil prices, the main component of gasoline costs, have risen since hitting a bottom in January, and refineries have switched over to produce a cleaner-burning but more expensive blend of gasoline for the summer months. The auto club survey measures prices of regular, unleaded, self-serve gasoline. — JACK NEWSHAM
Marketing
Liam Neeson scores big as a pitchman
NEW YORK — Ad executives looking for a celebrity to endorse a product can’t do much better than actor Liam Neeson. Or so says the Nielsen company, which looked at celebrities who make commercials and ranked them on likability, public awareness, influence, and other factors. Its first ‘‘N-Scores’’ were released Tuesday. Neeson (right) and Pierce Brosnan both scored 94, though Neeson was judged to have a greater influence in getting products sold. By looking at the effectiveness of celebrity pitchmen, the company best known for television ratings will now compete with Marketing Evaluations Inc.,which produces the better-known Q Score on public attitudes toward well-known figures. Nielsen also intends to offer marketers detailed information about the personalities and habits of people who respond well to each celebrity so they can better match pitchmen and products, said Chad Dreas, managing director of media analytics. ‘‘What do they buy? Where do they shop? What do they watch?’’ he said, describing the details Nielsen intends to sell. — ASSOCIATED PRESS
Technology
WASHINGTON —
Two months after Periscope debuted on the iPhone, Twitter is making the live-video app available to Android users, as well. They had to wait to get in on the fun, but they get something in return. For example, users who get interrupted mid-stream by a phone call can go back to watching right where they left off. Android users will also have more control over notifications from Periscope, such as being alerted when someone you follow on Twitter broadcasts for the first time. People who create new streams can also save replays without having to upload a video file. These features are not available for iPhone users. ‘‘This is just the beginning for Periscope on Android,’’ the firm wrote in a blog post. — WASHINGTON POST
Energy
nuclear plant is on line again after upgrades
PLYMOUTH — The only nuclear power plant in Massachusetts is back on line after a monthlong refueling and maintenance project that cost $70 million. Entergy, owner of Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station, said it returned to full service Tuesday morning. The plant’s 600 employees and more than 1,000 others brought in to work on the project spent 35 days upgrading and inspecting hundreds of pieces of equipment. They also replaced the fuel in the reactor. Entergy said the project made the plant safer. Pilgrim, in use since 1972, was relicensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 2012 for an additional 20 years. Citizens groups want the plant closed, saying it’s unsafe. — ASSOCIATED PRESS
Health
Planet Fitness plans to go public
NEW YORK — Planet Fitness, known for its low-cost purple-and-yellow gyms, plans to go public. It has filed a ‘‘draft registration statement’’ with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an initial public offering of stock. The filing is private; under the law, companies with revenue under $1 billion are able to submit confidential IPO drafts. Planet Fitness did not say how many shares it would offer, what the stock would be priced at, how much money it plans to raise, or when it expects the IPO to happen. According to its website, Planet Fitness Inc., headquartered in Newington, N.H., has more than 900 locations. — ASSOCIATED PRESS
Regulation
Galvin challenges US rule on small stock offerings
Secretary of State William F. Galvin has challenged a new federal rule that bars state regulators from reviewing securities offerings smaller than $50 million. In the Federal Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, he called the rule arbitrary and not in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933. It’s part of the 2012 JOBS Act (Jumpstart Our Business Startups) to help businesses get more access to financing. The law was welcomed by proponents of crowdfunding by startups to raise money online. The Securities and Exchange Commission said it adopted the rule to help smaller companies raise capital. Those that qualify would be able to raise up to $50 million without registering with the SEC, as larger companies must do when they offer stock to the public. Galvin said preventing state regulators from overseeing such offerings is risky for investors because there will be “no criteria for the investors who would be solicited. And states would have no ability to police those offerings at all. It’s not what Congress intended.” — BETH HEALY
Please enter a valid email address
Thank you for subscribing to Today's Headlines!
Enjoy your first free article
You can now read 5 free articles. Get unlimited access for just 99¢.
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Want each day's news headlines delivered fresh to your
inbox every morning? Just connect with us
in one of the following ways:
Facebook
Google
or
BostonGlobe.com will never post anything without asking.
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Read it all, now.
Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.
Get full access today for just 99¢
Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .
Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .
Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
High-quality journalism from the region’s largest newsroom
Convenient access across all of your devices
Today’s Headlines daily newsletter
Subscriber-only access to exclusive offers, events, contests, eBooks, and more
Less than 25¢ a week
GET FULL ACCESS NOW
GET FULL ACCESS NOW

