Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
N.J. court blocks Christie administration from seizing affordable housing trust funds
Governor Chris Christie holds his 132nd Town Hall Meeting In Whippany
Gov. Chris Christie speaks at a town hall meeting in Whippany last month. (Aristide Economopoulos | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)
TRENTON — In yet another rebuke of Gov. Chris Christie's handling of New Jersey's affordable housing system, a state appellate court panel Thursday blocked the governor from seizing affordable housing trust funds to help balance the state budget.
The three-judge panel ruled that the administration illegally tried in 2012 to seize more than $160 million from the funds -- which were raised from fees municipalities collected from developers. State law requires municipalities to use the money to subsidize construction of affordable housing.
Now, towns will go to court on a case-by-case basis to ask for the funds to be released and explain how they plan to use them.
Kevin Walsh, the executive director of the Fair Share Affordable Housing Center, the advocacy group that filed the lawsuit, said the decision will lead to thousands of affordable homes being built across the state -- which he said is especially crucial in areas that were slammed by Hurricane Sandy in the fall of 2012.
The nine counties hardest hit by the storm are holding 57 percent of the money.
"It will have an impact on getting homes built in some areas that are most-needed," Walsh said.
A spokesman for Christie's office did not immediately return a message seeking comment.
The decision is the latest twist in a decades-long saga over affordable housing in New Jersey -- and the second court ruling against the Christie administration's handling of the issue in a month.
The state Supreme Court ruled last month that the Council on Affordable Housing -- the state agency that oversees New Jersey's affordable housing system -- is no longer in charge of setting the number of homes each town must make available after missing two deadlines to write new quotas. Instead, the court ruled, it's now up to judges to determined the quotas on a town-by-town basis.
Towns are required to file in court by July 8 how they plan to meet their affordable housing obligations. Walsh said the trust funds will now be available to help towns build those homes.
The state Legislature passed a law in 2008 that said the towns must give the money to the state if they don't use it or come up with a plan to use it within four years.
Christie argued that towns waited too long to use it. He tried to grab the money in 2012 and 2013, but courts stopped him both times.
Affordable housing advocates have said Christie didn't give towns enough notice and that the state has not provided them with clear regulations on affordable housing, leaving them in the dark on how to use the money and how many homes to build. The last time COAH had written guidelines was 1998.
The appellate panel Thursday said the state failed to adopt standards outlining when it was okay to seize the funds, leading to uncertainty among the towns about when it was okay to use the money.
The panel now bans "the seizure of any trust funds by COAH or the executive branch" and rules that "the courts are the only available forum for addressing these matters."
"The issues raised in this appeal can no longer be left in COAH's moribund hands," the panel writes.
Christie tried to abolish COAH in 2010, saying the state should get "the hell out of the business of telling people how many units they're supposed to have."
Kevin Roberts, a spokesman for the governor, said last month that the state Supreme Court's decision to put judges in charge of the quotas "is a call to action to finally finish the job of reforming our affordable housing system so that it is no longer a costly burden to the people of New Jersey and actually encourages sound development."
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for your subscription!
To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Political Viewpoints
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

