Former Gabrielle Giffords Aide Will not Run for Congress in 2016
Barber was Gifford's district director on Jan. 8, 2011, when a gunman opened fire at a grocery shop meet-and-greet with constituents. Six persons died in the shooting, including a federal judge and a 9-year-old girl.&quotOur grandchildren are increasing...
Barber was Gifford's district director on Jan. 8, 2011, when a gunman opened fire at a grocery shop meet-and-greet with constituents. Six persons died in the shooting, including a federal judge and a 9-year-old girl.
&quotOur grandchildren are increasing up, and for Nancy and me, these years are valuable," Barber said in an emailed statement. &quotWe'll remain in Tucson exactly where I can ... still function on the difficulties that are crucial to Southern Arizona, like protecting Social Security and fixing our broken immigration system."
He was not available for comment Sunday afternoon.
Giffords was shot by way of the head and has given that founded the non-profit Americans for Accountable Solutions to seek approaches to reduce gun violence. Barber, 69, was shot in the face and leg.
Jared Loughner, a former community college student who was then 23, was sentenced to life in prison after the shooting.
Barber has faced 3 elections since 2012 to represent the sprawling, largely rural swath of borderlands stretching southwest to New Mexico. Initial he won a major and a general election to replace Giffords in District 8, then just a couple of months later faced one more key and general election to represent the newly redrawn District 2.
Republican Martha McSally, one particular of the nation's very first female combat pilots, won a narrow victory in November, sparking a lengthy recount that resulted in a lawsuit to halt the count. A judge ruled the count could continue, and McSally won by 167 votes out of roughly 220,000.
District 2 incorporates about half of Tucson, like Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, and about 80 miles of Mexican border.
© 2015 Thomson/Reuters.  All rights reserved.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
13 April 2015 Monday 02:08

