Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Michigan gov says he would veto 'religious freedom' bill
LANSING, Mich. — If a religious freedom bill now going through Michigan's legislature makes it to the governor's desk, Gov. Rick Snyder said he will veto it. Snyder never has signaled his intent to veto a bill
Post to Facebook
Michigan gov says he would veto 'religious freedom' bill LANSING, Mich. — If a religious freedom bill now going through Michigan's legislature makes it to the governor's desk, Gov. Rick Snyder said he will veto it. Snyder never has signaled his intent to veto a bill Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1Fqrin9
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Michigan gov says he would veto 'religious freedom' bill
Kathleen Gray, Detroit Free Press 1:52 p.m. EDT April 3, 2015
Gov. Snyder says he'd veto RFRA bill
Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder said April 2, 2015, that he would veto religious freedom legislation without expansion of the state's civil-rights law to include the LGBT community.
(Photo: Carlos Osorio, AP)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
LANSING, Mich. — If a religious freedom bill now going through Michigan's legislature makes it to the governor's desk, Gov. Rick Snyder said he will veto it.
Snyder never has signaled his intent to veto a bill before it even has a hearing but said he wanted to make his position clear because of the national furor this past week surrounding Religious Freedom Restoration Acts in Indiana and Arkansas.
"I would veto RFRA legislation in Michigan if it is a standalone piece of legislation," he said Thursday. "We're working hard to see if there is a better way to address religious freedom and equality."
The governor is trying to walk a fine line between business interests and social conservatives, said Tom Shields, a political consultant with the Marketing Resource Group here.
"He's never had a social-issue focus during his administration," Shields said. "It's a preventive move to stop putting Michigan in the cross hairs."
Sandy Baruah, chief executive of the Detroit Regional Chamber, likened the vow to being a driver witnessing an accident about to happen on the roadway but being able to swerve to avoid it.
"I think that's what the governor is trying to do because it would send a negative message when we're trying to attract talent to Michigan," Baruah said.
If legislators also expand Michigan's Elliott Larsen Civil Rights Act, which prohibits discrimination in housing and hiring, to the LGBT community, Snyder said he would consider signing a religious freedom bill.
"That's the governor's perogative, but I intend to give him that chance," to veto the bill, said GOP state Sen. Mike Shirkey of Clarklake, Mich. "I'm not surprised, but I'm not deterred."
It's unlikely that the state Legislature will take up an expansion of the civil-rights act. A similar measure couldn't get enough support in committee last year and the House speaker has said he's not interested in taking it up this year.
But it is in his plans to pass a religious freedom bill.
Michigan has three religious freedom bills in the hopper:
• One would give businesses a religious objection defense if the state or an agency of the state came after them for asserting that religious belief.
• A second would allow faith-based adoption agencies from coordinating adoptions for people, such as same sex or unmarried couples, whose lifestyles violate their religious beliefs.
• A third would allow medical personnel and hospitals to withhold services that violate their religious beliefs.
"I believe in religious freedom," Snyder said. "But I strongly oppose discrimination of any kind."
USA NOW
See sailor missing for 66 days rescued by Coast Guard
Apr 03, 2015

