DESTIN, Fla. --  The Southeastern Conference wants a level playing field by potentially tweaking rules regarding satellite camps and graduate transfers.
Mark J. Rebilas/USA TODAY Sports
Oregon Ducks has added Notre Dame Fighting Irish graduate transfer Matt Hegarty to its 2015 roster.
Lon Horwedel/Icon Sportswire
Former Michigan cornerback Blake Countess announced via social media Tuesday that he will transfer to Auburn.
G Fiume/Maryland Terrapins/Getty Images
6hBrian Bennett
Illinois is taking steps to increase support for what it terms "the health and well-being" of its athletes following abuse allegations in both the football and women's basketball programs.
Andrew Weber/USA TODAY Sports
2d
Indiana wide receiver Isaac Griffith is out of jail after being arrested for driving while intoxicated.
Play3:04
4dC.L. Brown
North Carolina announced Friday it has received a notice of allegations from the NCAA regarding the re-opening of its academic fraud investigation.
Jackson Laizure/Getty Images
5d
Running back Keith Ford, who decided to transfer from Oklahoma after being suspended in March, has chosen to enroll at Texas A&M, he told 247Sports.
Harry How/Getty Images
Conner Sullivan, an amateur videographer, has put together some pretty cool footage inside Trojans football.
Earnest Graham/Facebook
8hJoe DeMartino
We're not sure how he managed to break free at the 11-second mark.
Scott Cunningham/Getty Images
6hDavid Purdum
Two economists have shown that the point spread plays a significant role in viewing interest, at times producing 30 percent spikes in TV ratings on noncompetitive games.
AP Photo/Brynn Anderson
8hAdam Rittenberg
A rapper has has produced a Heisman anthem for Ohio State running back Ezekiel Elliott.
AP Photo, Getty Images, Getty Images
6hESPN Stats & Information
Counting down 100 days to the start of the college football season, one fact at a time
8hGreg Ostendorf
Alabama sophomore receiver Robert Foster could be in line for a breakout season in 2015.
Jim Owens/Icon Sportswire
12hJared Shanker and Andrea Adelson
Louisville, North Carolina will both have an opportunity to help get the conference off to a good start next season.
v
Among the topics to be discussed at retiring commissioner Mike Slive's last set of SEC spring meetings: Satellite camps, graduate transfers and cost-of-attendance.
1 Related
The Big Ten West appears to be a three-team race between Wisconsin, Nebraska and Minnesota.
AP Photo/Sue Ogrocki
11hJake Trotter
A look at the strongest and weakest position groups for the Oklahoma State Cowboys coming out of spring ball.
Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images
13hAlex Scarborough
Other Alabama Crimson Tide coaches have used football coach Nick Saban as a recruiting resource, and he has more than helped.
Kevin Gemmell/ESPN.com
1dKevin Gemmell
At 100 years old, Arizona State's oldest living alumnus shares some stories from a very different era in Sun Devils football.
Courtesy of Michael Goldman
To celebrate The Rolling Stones' summer tour, we're taking a look back at and highlighting photos from a few concerts that have been held inside college football stadiums.
Courtesy W. Blaine Pennington
The 1974 Rompin' Stompin' Barn Dance and Bar B.Q. became an infamous footnote in the history of Darrell K Royal-Texas Memorial Stadium.
George Frey/Getty Images
4dChantel Jennings
The Utah Utes' Devontae Booker led the Pac-12 with 815 rushing yards after contact.
Mark Alberti/Icon Sportswire
4dBrian Bennett
His signature long hair is no more -- Beathard donated his hair to a charity for children with cancer.
Brett Deering/Getty Images
4dBrandon Chatmon
Oklahoma has a strong group of running backs, but needs help in the defensive secondary.
SEC wants 'level playing field' regarding camps, transfers
DESTIN, Fla. -- The Southeastern Conference wants a level playing field.
Yep, the league that boasts seven consecutive football national championships, resides in some of the country's most fertile recruiting grounds and has loads of history and fan support is complaining about being at a competitive disadvantage.
SEC coaches and administrators gathered in a lush, beachside resort hotel for their annual spring meetings and the agenda included discussion about evening things out by potentially tweaking rules regarding satellite camps and graduate transfers.
Editor's Picks
Despite the SEC's recent stranglehold on the college football world it can't seem to wrap its head around satellite camps.
"If we're going to compete for the championship, and everybody's going to play in the playoff system and everybody's going to compete for that, then we need to get our rules in alignment so we're all on a level playing field," Alabama coach Nick Saban said.
The league acted quickly on it, too.
The SEC announced Tuesday that it will propose national legislation that would limit "institutional staff members to participating in camps and clinics on their own campus."
The SEC also passed regulation to monitor the safety of its student-athletes even more on the football field.
The regulation requires an independent medical observer to be on hand for all SEC and nonconference games, outgoing commissioner Mike Slive said. The "trained medical person," who Slive said will be stationed in the replay booth, will be selected by the conference, not the individual institutions.
The satellite-camps proposal comes a year after Penn State coach James Franklin and his staff appeared at a Georgia State football camp in Atlanta.
SEC coaches bristled then because league rules prohibit them from doing the same. And those camps are becoming more widespread.
Michigan's Jim Harbaugh is going on a nine-day, nine-city tour starting June 4 in Indianapolis and ending June 12 in Detroit. The one-day camps across the country include stops in Florida, Texas, California and Alabama.
And Ohio State's Urban Meyer will attend a camp in Boca Raton on June 17.
Incoming SEC commissioner Greg Sankey said he thought the proposal had "a fair chance of passing."
"We want it to be done nationally, but there was a lot of conversation among our football coaches that we don't want to be on the sidelines any longer if there's not going to be a change more rapidly," Sankey said. "If that's going to be the competitive landscape, they want to be fully engaged if the rule doesn't change nationally."
NCAA rules allow football programs to hold camps on their campus, inside their state or within a 50-mile radius of campus, but coaches can guest coach at another school's camp -- whether it's another Football Bowl Subdivision school, a Division III school or even a high school.
The SEC and Atlantic Coast Conference have league-wide rules against guest coaching, in part because they don't want their coaches treading on each other's turf.
For programs such as Penn State and Michigan, satellite camps are a way to expand their reach into the fertile recruiting territory of the southeast.
"All of us are against it obviously, but there comes a point where we need to start doing it to keep up with Ohio State, Michigan, Penn State -- the northern schools that are coming into the south," South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier said. "Whether or not we need to allow some of our schools to do it will be discussed later."
It seems naive or maybe even arrogant that the SEC would be publicly campaigning for anything to level the playing field.
After all, most of the league has built-in recruiting advantages with weather, facilities and rabid fan bases.
"Selfishly, I'd like to keep (camps) out of the state of Florida," new Florida coach Jim McElwain said. "But at the same time, right now, that's what we're dealing with as a conference. Where others are taking advantage of us is one of those camp issues."
It's not just camps, either.
Coaches also complained about the league's graduate transfer rule. The SEC rule requires transfers to have two years of eligibility remaining in order to enroll. If not, those players must get a waiver. The league also requires a waiver for any player trying to transfer who was disciplined at his previous school.
Saban called for a standard set of rules for the Power 5 conferences.
"It's a disadvantage not to be able to do something in one league and be able to do it in another," Saban said. "It's a disadvantage to be able to recruit a player in one league and not be able to do it in another. And it's also a disadvantage if you start bringing up things like if a player gets suspended or whatever from one school, he can't transfer to another. Well, these things need to be global. Otherwise, we're going to become a farm system for all the other leagues.
"And then the first question we're going to get asked is we won seven national championships in a row, win a national championship for seven years or whatever, and the first question I get asked is 'What's the state of the SEC, you haven't been in the championship game the last two years?' "
Information from The Associated Press and ESPN.com's Edward Aschoff was used in this report.
0 Shares


1mEdward Aschoff
Despite the SEC's recent stranglehold on the college football world it can't seem to wrap its head around satellite camps.
AP Photo, Getty Images, Getty Images
6hESPN Stats & Information
Counting down 100 days to the start of the college football season, one fact at a time
Andrew Weber/USA TODAY Sports
10hJared Shanker
The start of the 2015 college football season is only 100 days away, so here are 10 games involving ACC teams we're counting down to as well.
Ric Tapia/Icon Sportswire
12hDavid Lombardi
Here are the 10 Pac-12 games we're most looking forward to seeing come fall.
Justin K. Aller/Getty Images
12hBrandon Chatmon
The Big 12 Conference has plenty of games to look forward to this fall, with rivalries, rematches and scores to settle across the conference.
Rob Foldy/Getty Images
11hAlex Scarborough
There are the usual suspects, for sure, but the early season has some very intriguing nonconference matchups.
Rick Osentoski/USA TODAY Sports
12hBrian Bennett
Jim Harbaugh will add intrigue to the Big Ten, and he gets his first cracks against rivals Michigan State and Ohio State in the Big House.
4hESPN.com staff
With only 100 days until college football starts, here are 100 things -- from Jim Harbaugh to Baylor's 400-pound TE -- we're looking forward to.
Joshua S. Kelly/USA TODAY Sports
12hTravis Haney
Here are players whose Heisman Trophy odds will shrink and balloon between now and December.
13hAlex Scarborough
Other Alabama Crimson Tide coaches have used football coach Nick Saban as a recruiting resource, and he has more than helped.
AP Photo/Mark Humphrey
13hEdward Aschoff
A number of issues figure to draw a lot of discussion at this week's SEC spring meetings, including satellite football camps.
Kevin Gemmell/ESPN.com
1dKevin Gemmell
At 100 years old, Arizona State's oldest living alumnus shares some stories from a very different era in Sun Devils football.
George Frey/Getty Images
4dChantel Jennings
The Utah Utes' Devontae Booker led the Pac-12 with 815 rushing yards after contact.
4dAndrea Adelson
North Carolina announced Friday it has received its notice of allegations from the NCAA regarding a years-long academic fraud investigation.
4dAlex Scarborough
Most programs would kill for one national title a decade, much less three. But when you’re the Crimson Tide and coached by the venerable Nick Saban, going two seasons without one must feel like an eternity.
The SEC should stop its fight with satellite camps
2m
Saban: We need a global approach
Paul Finebaum and Alabama head coach Nick Saban discuss the football issues in the SEC meetings.
Edward Aschoff, ESPN Staff Writer
DESTIN, Fla. -- Despite the SEC's recent stranglehold on the college football world, the conference -- dubbed by many to be the best in the sport for the better part of the last decade -- can't seem to wrap its head around satellite camps.
Infamous in the Deep South and extremely resourceful (and legal) to just about everyone else in the country, satellite camps have become enemy No. 1 to the big, bad SEC. For the second straight year, SEC coaches and administrators are sick and tired of watching other competing coaches slide into their fertile recruiting grounds and spend precious time with prospective recruits by playing "guest coach" at smaller institutions.
NCAA rules allow football programs to hold camps on campus, inside their state or within a 50-mile radius of their school, but there's a nifty little loophole that allows coaches to "guest-coach" at another school's camp anywhere in the country.
Penn State coach James Franklin upset the SEC by doing it last year, while Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh is hitting nine cities in nine days that will include trips to Alabama, Florida and Texas. Ohio State's Urban Meyer is heading to Boca Raton, Florida, in June.
The SEC, which along with the ACC doesn't allow its coaches to participate in these camps, is now proposing legislation to have satellite camps outlawed nationally, and many coaches believe that these camps present an unfair competitive advantage that the league can't combat.
The SEC's groaning on the subject has fallen on deaf ears, but that didn't stop the league from griping about it again on Tuesday.
"We have a lot of crazy rules," Alabama coach Nick Saban said. "A head coach is not allowed to go out during an evaluation period in the spring, but he can go have a satellite camp anywhere in the country to bring your staff in and bring players to it? Does that make any sense to anybody? I think we should have recruiting periods and evaluation periods, and the only time you should be able to have a camp is on your campus. And if a player is interested enough to come to your camp on your campus, then that should be the way it is."
New Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh will be holding nine satellite camps in nine days, a trip that will include stops in Alabama, Florida and Texas. 
Rick Osentoski/USA TODAY Sports
What the SEC has to realize is that it just doesn't have enough votes to destroy this practice. Greg Sankey, who will replace Mike Slive as SEC commissioner in July, said he thinks the SEC's proposal has a "fair chance of passing."
That might be wishful thinking. So the SEC needs a Plan B, and that plan should be to conform and let the issue die. The SEC is talking about a competitive disadvantage, more time on the road and a longer recruiting season, but if you can't beat them, you might as well join them.
We all know what these camps are. They aren't development opportunities, they are recruiting ventures. They are loopholes when the official recruiting calendar shuts down. If it bothers the SEC and their proposal is shot down, join the club.
Ole Miss coach Hugh Freeze isn't a fan of satellite camps, but even he said he would reevaluate his stance on them if SEC coaches were allowed to participate.
"I guess it's a selfish position somewhat, and I kinda like it the way it is for us. But I totally understand if I were sitting somewhere and in my recruiting circle there are camps going on from outside schools, in the Power 5 in particular, I would want the freedom to do the same," Freeze said.
South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier also understands that evolution is inevitable.
"All of us are against it, obviously, but there comes a point where we all need to start doing it to keep up with Ohio State, Michigan, Penn State -- the Northern schools that come into the South," he said.
I completely understand the SEC's stance. Coaches and administrators don't want outsiders stepping into their footprints, and they don't want to watch conference mates hanging out in their backyards any more than they already do.
Florida probably doesn't want Alabama in Jacksonville. Texas A&M probably doesn't want Georgia in Dallas. None of them want Ohio State or Michigan anywhere close to them. But the time is coming when the SEC, which showed a total competitive disadvantage with its seven straight national championships, to back off and either join the fun or leave the fight.
I'm sure Florida would like to hit Miami and Atlanta. Saban probably wouldn't mind a day in Dallas, either.
Georgia coach Mark Richt seemed a little apathetic about satellite camps and probably understood better than everyone that sometimes you have to embrace change.
"I'm not too worried about it," he said.
"If we're allowed to, I'm sure we will."
And they should. Give prospects the opportunity to see you when they might not be able to afford the chance later. The rest of the sport is slowly catching up to the SEC, and the league, which has been revolutionary at times, can't get caught with its head in the sand.
Cost-of-attendance still a discussion
The SEC was -- and is -- in favor of cost-of-attendance for its student-athletes, but as estimated numbers began trickling out for universities, coaches started to get a little skittish of some sort of competitive advantage some schools could get with higher projections.
 
AP Photo/Brynn Anderson
Remember, these costs will be for costs outside of tuition, room and board, books and fees. Each university's financial aid office will calculate the costs and report them to the federal government, so the numbers will be different across the board.
Coaches like Saban and Richt want more transparency (something Slive and Sankey both want) and equality with the numbers.
"I'm all for the players getting more -- I always have been, I've always promoted it -- I've always been for it," Saban said. "I still think that's important that we improve the quality of life, I just think there's some unforeseen consequences of this that may affect the competitive balance that we've always worked very hard to try to keep, relative to college."
Saban proposed something similar to a salary cap that's used in most professional sports.
Spurrier changed his tune with cost-of-attendance, saying that equality doesn't happen in many aspects of recruiting, and it probably shouldn't with finances.
"If one school can give $5,000 a year and another $4,000, hell, that's just the way it is," Spurrier said. "… Who knows the reason a young man picks a school, but we would hope four or five hundred dollars wouldn't be a reason a kid picks a school."
Saban and Richt were asked about the schools possibly paying for real costs as opposed to the ambiguous costs projected by each school. Both seemed into it, but transparency of how the estimated numbers are created is what they were really concerned with.
"If everybody would disclose how they go about their business, I think it might be helpful to get things on a more equal playing field," Richt said.
"There's a lot of numbers out there that no one knows how they got to those numbers. It'd be nice to know how everybody gets to that number. If everybody's using the same grid, then maybe it'd be a little bit closer."
0 Shares

