Recent
Recent
RECENT
Recent
Recent
MORE
MORE
RECENT
Saved
Related Links
Amid the 82 regular-season games and the six playoff games the Blues played in the 2014-15 season, there’s one that stands out to general manager Doug Armstrong as an example of how well the team can play and proof that the current personnel can do it.
On Feb. 12, the Blues traveled to Florida and beat Tampa Bay 6-3. It was the team’s ninth game in 15 days and came on the road against one of the top teams in the East, but the Blues controlled the game from the start, playing with energy and vigor and even a bit of daring and then held off a comeback by the Lightning in the third period. (The Post-Dispatch described it the next day as “one of the best games of the season for the Blues.”) That’s the way the Blues want to play.
After almost a month spent looking backward at what happened at the end of the season, the Blues started looking forward Tuesday. The club announced that Ken Hitchcock would return as coach for another season and Hitchcock and Armstrong said the team would look to add speed to its lineup, or get the current players to play faster. There will be new players and a new game plan.
“We are going to have a different look,” Armstrong said. “We’re going to explore improving our team to levels we probably haven’t explored in the past. But it has to make sense.”
The word Hitchcock kept coming back to describe it Tuesday was “reckless,” and he must have believed it because he used it five times in the span of 85 words at one point. Recklessness, he admitted, has the potential to be a lot of fun and can also give a coach more gray hairs, which brought a smirk to the face of Armstrong, sitting next to Hitchcock, as he no doubt was trying to figure if Hitchcock had any hair that hadn’t already turned gray.
“We’ve got to go back to reckless,” Hitchcock said. “(Our style is) too conservative, it’s too careful, it’s too much skill ahead of work. We’ve got to get back to reckless. We’ve got more skill than we’ve ever had since I’ve been here. But skilled, careful hockey doesn’t win. You’ve got to play reckless. We need to get back to the reckless play we had before. That’s what Doug and I talked about. You can do it and still be responsible. But we’ve got to get back to reckless play. We’ve got to ask more people to be involved offensively and defensively.”
Armstrong pointed to two defensemen on the roster who didn’t see action in the playoffs as examples of what the team is looking for: Robert Bortuzzo and Petteri Lindbohm. He mentioned the names of forwards Ty Rattie and Robby Fabbri as youngsters who will get long looks early in the season.
Part of playing reckless is playing fast and fast, Hitchcock and Armstrong say, is where it’s at in the NHL. So the Blues next season will have to be faster.
“The four fastest teams in the league are playing right now,” Hitchcock said. “They’re the four fastest in October and November and they’re still playing. We’ve got to get that pace, and we can do that.”
And Hitchcock thinks, and the Tampa Bay game provides some proof, that the players currently on the team can play that way. “If Doug doesn’t change anybody,” Hitchcock said, “we can do that, because we can change the way we play. We can also change the positioning of the personnel to make us more reckless, much quicker and play with a much higher pace.
“Our job is to get the most out of every player. I think internally without changing a bunch of players we can really quicken our team and make our pace a lot higher, and we’re going to have to to keep up with where the league’s at now.”
But, Armstrong said, changes in personnel are inevitable, though he would rather make no trade than make a bad trade. By standing pat with their coach, the options left for the Blues to change in an effort to break their first-round playoff funk is either the personnel or the style.
“It can’t be the same core doing the same stuff and expecting a different result,” Hitchcock said. “That’s not going to happen. It’s not going to make us better.”
Tom Timmermann • 314-340-8190
@tomtimm on Twitter
 
Copyright 2015 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with www.stltoday.com account:
Username & Password Required!

