Baton Rouge
Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Bobby Jindal talks Louisiana's religious freedom bill, New Orleans LGBT protections on 'Meet the Press'
Bobby Jindal
Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal talked about a religious freedom bill coming to Louisiana and New Orleans LGBT protections on "Meet the Press" April 5.   (AP Photo/Joe Skipper)
Gov.  Bobby Jindal  was asked about a religious freedom bill coming to Louisiana as well as the New Orleans ordinance barring discrimination against the LGBT community on " Meet the Press " Sunday morning (April 5). 
The following is an excerpt of Jindal's interview with the show's host, Chuck Todd, on these topics: 
TODD: State Rep. Mike Johnson has filed a bill to allow private businesses to refuse to recognize same-sex marriage, according to The Times-Picayune, should it become legal in Louisiana. And of course, we may find that out in June in the Supreme Court. The legislation would allow a private company to not offer the same benefits legally recognized same-sex married couples as other married couples. 
So this is beyond just denying services as a business. This would also be denying benefits to an employee who happens to be in a same-sex marriage. Are you going to be able to support a bill that does that? 
JINDAL: Chuck, well let me see the bill. Actually, our session starts in a couple of weeks. I'll look at the bill . I am always in favor of defending religious liberties. Look, you are now raising issues regarding federal employment laws and benefit laws. Let me look at the details of the bill. I am, in general though, very supportive of defending religious liberty, and I think we can do that without condoning discrimination.
I don't think those two values are mutually exclusive, and I think that's what this debate is really about. I think we can have religious liberty without having discrimination. I think it is possible to have them both, and it's desirable to have them both in our society. We need to remember -- this is a not a new debate. The founding fathers recognized the importance of religious liberty. They put it in the First Amendment in the Constitution. They anticipated some of these conflicts. They came down on the side of religious liberty. Indeed, religious liberty is why we have the United States. We, as a country, didn't create religious liberty. Religious liberty created our country. 
TODD: Are you against the local ordinance in New Orleans that has a protection for LGBT citizens from discrimination from housing and employment? 
JINDAL: Yeah, a couple of things, Chuck. I don't think, certainly, that there should be discrimination against anybody in housing and employment. That's not what my faith teaches me. I don't think that's appropriate, and I think the good news is that our society is moving in a direction of more tolerance. 
My concern about creating special legal protections is that historically, our country, we've only done that in extraordinary circumstances, and it's not evident to me -- it doesn't appear to be one of those moments today. 
*******
. . . . . .
Julia O'Donoghue  is a state politics reporter based in  Baton Rouge . She can be reached at jodonoghue@nola.com or on Twitter at  @jsodonoghue . Please consider following us on Facebook at  NOLA.com  and  NOLA.com-Baton Rouge.
Breaking News/Live events
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for signing up!
Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you dont' see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Video          of the Day
© 2015 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

