Top News
Top News
Top News
Cuba sees 36 percent increase in visits by Americans since thaw
Associated Press
I'm already following articles tagged
HAVANA
7 Months Ago
The thaw in relations between the United States and Cuba has led to a stunning 36 percent increase in visits by Americans to the island, including thousands who are flying into Cuba from third countries like Mexico to sidestep U.S. restrictions on tourism.
The dramatic rise was seen in the number of Americans with no family ties to Cuba who visited between Jan. 1 and May 9 compared to the same period in 2014, according to statistics provided to the Associated Press by a University of Havana professor.
In addition to the boom in American visitors, Cuba saw a 14 percent jump in arrivals from around the world between January and early May compared to the same period last year.
From Jan. 1 to May 9, 51,458 Americans visited Cuba, compared with 37,459 over that period last year, according to Jose Luis Perello Cabrera, an economist in the University of Havana's tourism studies department with access to official figures. The figures also include revealing details on the thousands of Americans who are entering Cuba through third countries, many to sidestep U.S. restrictions on tourism.
There were 38,476 visitors who flew directly from the United States to Cuba, compared with 29,213 in the same period last year.
An additional 12,982 Americans came in via third countries, a whopping 57 percent increase from the 8,246 Americans who flew to Cuba via a third country in the same period last year.
Mexico, the Bahamas, Jamaica and the Cayman Islands are the top choices for Americans entering Cuba from non-U.S. points, Perello said.
David Perez, a New Yorker who works in public relations, traveled to Cuba in May through Cancun, Mexico. "I had just always wanted to go to Cuba, and I decided now was the time," he said.
Cuba also has seen a 14 percent rise in overall tourism. Arrivals from 206 countries from Jan. 1 to May 9 rose from 1,349,903 last year to 1,547,104 this year. Visitors from Germany were up 22 percent; France, 25 percent; the United Kingdom, 26 percent; and Spain, 16 percent.
Travel to Cuba "for tourist activities continues to be prohibited," said Hagar Chemali, a spokesperson for the U.S. Treasury Department, which publishes the rules on Cuba travel. But in January, after President Barack Obama announced detente with Cuba's communist government, "we eased the travel regulations," Chemali said.
The new rules make it easier to get the necessary paperwork, and that has led some Americans to flout the restrictions. While many Americans still travel with expensive, organized "people to people" tours that are approved by the U.S. government, it's not uncommon to encounter Americans who have traveled to Cuba independently.
Charter companies flying from the United States to Cuba say travelers now need only "self-certify" that their trip falls under a permitted category.
Bob Guild of charter company Marazul Tours worries that some travelers may be viewing the process of planning a trip to Cuba too casually by claiming they're going for a sanctioned purpose when in fact they are going on vacation.
But Guild acknowledges that "there's a disconnect" between what's on paper and what's happening. "It's a foggy land right now," he said.
Lawyer Robert Muse, an expert on the legal aspects of Cuba travel, says "there's been almost no active enforcement" of the tourism ban under the Obama administration. He added that the increase in U.S. visitors to Cuba is "what the Obama administration wants. … They favor engagement. That's why they take this liberalized approach to travel."

