Johnny Depp
Jason Kempin / Getty Images
Johnny Depp could face a hefty prison sentence in Australian dog-smuggling case.
Johnny Depp could face a hefty prison sentence in Australian dog-smuggling case.
(Jason Kempin / Getty Images)
Johnny Depp's #WarOnTerrier continues, actor could face jail time and triple-digit fine Down Under
Johnny Depp still seems to be dogged by his "very serious" quarantine case in Australia despite sending his pups back to the U.S. after a customs flap this month.
Nearly two weeks ago, Australia's Minister of Agriculture Barnaby Joyce  publicly lambasted Depp  and accused him of flying the toy dogs into Queensland on his private jet in April — that's when the film star returned to the country after having surgery on his hand.
"If we start letting movie stars, even if they've been 'Sexiest Man Alive' twice, to come into our nation then why don't we just break the laws for everybody," Joyce said at the time. "It's time that Pistol and Boo buggered off back to the United States. After that I don't expect to be invited to the opening of 'Pirates of the Caribbean.'"
Depp, 52, and his wife, Amber Heard, were accused of smuggling the dogs when they didn't declare them on their customs forms or provide proper documentation for the pets. Joyce threatened to euthanize the terriers if Depp didn't send them back to the U.S.  within 72 hours, which Depp ultimately did with a bit of time to spare.
The country has the laws in place to prevent the spread of disease, and pets usually face 10 days in quarantine when they first arrive.
The "Mortdecai" star could face 10 years in prison and a maximum fine of $263,296 ($340,000 Australian dollars) if the case goes to court, according to a Senate committee hearing in Canberra on Tuesday.
The investigation found that Depp, the flight crew and the private plane's passengers didn't declare the presence of the dogs and customs officers didn't find the terriers when they boarded the plane before the passengers got off, the newspaper said.
The dogs were discovered only after the newlyweds took them to a local groomer and the establishment posted about their patronage on Facebook.
Comments


Johnny Depp
 AP Images
The actor could serve up to 10 years in prison or pay a maximum fine of $340,000, according to the Sydney Morning Herald.
by THR Staff
5/26/2015 5:08pm PDT
Johnny Depp could face up to 10 years in an Australian prison after allegedly bringing his two dogs, Pistol and Boo, into the country without the proper clearance, according to the Sydney Morning Herald .
According to the report, the case was discussed at a recent Senate committee hearing, during which it was clarified that the actor could face prison time or a maximum $340,000 fine for smuggling his canine companions on his private jet and not putting them in quarantine for 10 days upon arrival, as required by Australian law. His pilot could likewise face two years in prison for failing to acknowledge the presence of the two dogs aboard the aircraft.
The Sydney Morning Herald reports that Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce threatened to put down Depp's Yorkshire terriers upon discovering they were illegally brought into the country on April 21, when the actor returned to Australia to continue filming the latest installment of the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, Dead Men Tell No Tales. 
The two dogs were first discovered by authorities when photos of them at a grooming salon began circulating on social media, and they have since been safely evacuated to the U.S.
The Agriculture Department is currently still investigating and no charges have been filed.
Must Reads

