Johnny Depp
Jason Kempin / Getty Images
Johnny Depp could face a hefty prison sentence in Australian dog-smuggling case.
Johnny Depp could face a hefty prison sentence in Australian dog-smuggling case.
(Jason Kempin / Getty Images)
Johnny Depp's #WarOnTerrier continues, actor could face jail time and triple-digit fine Down Under
Johnny Depp still seems to be dogged by his "very serious" quarantine case in Australia despite sending his pups back to the U.S. after a customs flap this month.
Nearly two weeks ago, Australia's Minister of Agriculture Barnaby Joyce  publicly lambasted Depp  and accused him of flying the toy dogs into Queensland on his private jet in April — that's when the film star returned to the country after having surgery on his hand.
"If we start letting movie stars, even if they've been 'Sexiest Man Alive' twice, to come into our nation then why don't we just break the laws for everybody," Joyce said at the time. "It's time that Pistol and Boo buggered off back to the United States. After that I don't expect to be invited to the opening of 'Pirates of the Caribbean.'"
Depp, 52, and his wife, Amber Heard, were accused of smuggling the dogs when they didn't declare them on their customs forms or provide proper documentation for the pets. Joyce threatened to euthanize the terriers if Depp didn't send them back to the U.S.  within 72 hours, which Depp ultimately did with a bit of time to spare.
The country has the laws in place to prevent the spread of disease, and pets usually face 10 days in quarantine when they first arrive.
The "Mortdecai" star could face 10 years in prison and a maximum fine of $263,296 ($340,000 Australian dollars) if the case goes to court, according to a Senate committee hearing in Canberra on Tuesday.
The investigation found that Depp, the flight crew and the private plane's passengers didn't declare the presence of the dogs and customs officers didn't find the terriers when they boarded the plane before the passengers got off, the newspaper said.
The dogs were discovered only after the newlyweds took them to a local groomer and the establishment posted about their patronage on Facebook.
Comments


Customize Your Weather
Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
PAGE NOT FOUND
The page you've requested does not exist. Search NJ.com or scan the site index below.
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

