Corey Crawford
Rob Gauthier / Los Angels Times
Blackhawks goalie Corey Crawford makes a save on a shot by Ducks forward Jiri Sekac during the first period of Game 5 of the Western Conference finals.
Blackhawks goalie Corey Crawford makes a save on a shot by Ducks forward Jiri Sekac during the first period of Game 5 of the Western Conference finals.
(Rob Gauthier / Los Angels Times)
Ducks have a lot to be confident about heading into Wednesday's Game 6 in Chicago
Ducks' Cam Fowler says Chicago's speed, long passing has made it difficult to defend the "spread offense"
Original Mighty Duck coach, Emilio Estevez, has been spreading kudos for the Ducks
Before the Ducks returned to Chicago for what could be their Western Conference finals clinching victory, they could find confidence in multiple areas.
By beating the Chicago Blackhawks, 5-4, on Matt Beleskey's goal 45 seconds into overtime Monday at Honda Center, the Ducks joined the 1979 New York Rangers as the only teams in NHL history to play their first 14 playoff games without a regulation loss.
Now leading the series three games to two, Anaheim can hold that record alone with a victory in Wednesday's 5 p.m. game at United Center.
Ducks Coach Bruce Boudreau said Tuesday, "We haven't mentioned one word about" the streak, but said he takes pride in his team's attention to each game.
"It says the consistency of coming to play every night is really good," Boudreau said.
Win and in
Boudreau, a hockey lifer who has played and coached in all sorts of towns, said he has thought about holding a Stanley Cup "every day" since childhood.
So what's it like at 60 to finally be close to playing for the sport's Holy Grail?
"I give my head a shake sometimes. It is close," Boudreau said. "You say you're one game away to playing for the Stanley Cup. I try not to think about that. It's difficult, but you've got to stay in the moment. … We'll either have to worry about the seventh game or we'll be elated."
Work to do
Like the Ducks, the Blackhawks have scored nine goals in the last two games.
"They definitely put a lot of pressure on us because they have a lot of speed and they like to stretch you out, use those long passes to their advantage, which kind of takes away our gaps, allows them to get their speed," Ducks defenseman Cam Fowler said.
"Some breakdowns here and there that we've had — a couple shifts in a row — when they seem to be coming at us, we can't seem to get the changes we need, get people off the ice who are tired. There's things we can obviously clean up."
Mighty (Duck) pleased
Actor Emilio Estevez, who played Coach Gordon Bombay in "The Mighty Ducks" films, was invested in Game 5 and showed support on Twitter.
Under the handle @EMILIOTHEWAY, Estevez's account tweeted, "GO GET 'EM TONIGHT DUCKS!!!@AnaheimDucks#GordonBombay," and posted his film line, "Ducks Fly Together!!!"
Then, Estevez tweeted, "End of 1st period: DUCKS: 3 HAWKS: ZIPPITY-DO-DAH...Well played, gents!"
In overtime, Estevez tweeted it was "cray cray" inside Honda Center, switched back into character by urging that it was "time for the Flying V," and then after Beleskey's goal, he dismissed Chicagoans as "Windy City Windbags."
Follow Lance Pugmire on Twitter  @latimespugmire
Comments

