Opinion
 Attendees line-up to meet musician Ted Nugent (not pictured) at a book signing event during the National Rifle Association's annual meeting in Houston, Texas on May 5, 2013. (REUTERS/Adrees Latif)   
The 144th NRA Freedom Party Erupts In Nashville This Weekend
2:56 PM  04/08/2015
Ted Nugent
To millions of music lovers, Ted Nugent has carved a permanent place in rock & roll history as the guitar-shredding showman, selling more than 40 million albums, performing more than 6,500 high-octane concerts, and continuing to set attendance records at venues around the globe.
To further millions, Nugent is the nation’s most outspoken proponent of our 1st and 2nd Amendment rights, conducting thousands of pro-gun, pro-freedom, pro-America interviews in major media worldwide.  He has served continuously on the Board of Directors of the NRA since his initial election in 1995, where he consistently ranks among the highest number of votes received by an individual board member.
Nugent is widely acknowledged for his skills as an outdoorsman, and for his tireless promotion of bowhunting and conservation via his writings for numerous publications and websites, his New York Times best-sellers Ted, White & Blue:  The Nugent Manifesto and God, Guns and Rock ‘n’ Roll, and his award-winning Ted Nugent Spirit of the Wild television show—seen exclusively on Outdoor Channel--where he proudly serves as Ambassador for the network.
We are all born at Point A and will be gone from this good earth at Point B. It is intelligent priorities and choices that determine quality of life, and like everyone we know, the Nugent Family figured this out long ago and maximizes such intelligent choices daily.
Family birthdays and anniversaries. Independence Day. Veteran’s Day. Opening day of deerseason. Memorial Day. December 7th. D-Day. And right up there with all these grand celebratory occasions is the greatest family freedom party every year when the National Rifle Association gathers for our annual member’s meetings.
The NRA will descend upon Nashville, Tennessee this weekend where 60 to 70 thousand freedom junkies will celebrate the Second Amendment, fondle untold tonnage of glorious firepower and sporting goods, and promote the ultimate good while condemning the bad and shining a blazing light of truth upon the ugly.
The NRA convention, which is arguably America’s most peaceful annual family gathering, will occur in Nashville on April 10-12. The NRA convention will be as peaceful as the newborn floor at your local hospital.
With the presence of tens of thousands of guns and tens of thousands of gun owners, there will be no so-called gun-violence at the convention. There never is.
Everybody knows more guns equals less crime.
What will be flooding the convention will be a sea of smiling, happy families, unlimited goodwill, runaway decency and genuine “we the people” concern and action.
NRA members are genuinely concerned about our country and our freedom because the vacuous, intellectually challenged creeps on the left are always looking to strip Americans of our Second Amendment rights. Like our forefather Minutemen who were ready at a moment’s notice to shoot the king’s redcoat stormtroopers, the NRA stands guard to protect our Second Amendment freedoms from anti-common sense and anti-gun goons such as former Big Apple Mayor Mikey Bloomberg, our gunrunning Attorney General Eric Holder and their hygiene challenged jester Michael Moore.
The bullet proof truth is that if they could get away with it, the anti-freedom leftist hit squads would relegate the Second Amendment to the history books and confiscate our guns in a heartbeat. Various lying leftists, scamming socialists, hate filled commies and soulless Marxists hate the Second Amendment, hate guns, hate the NRA, hate freedom and hate me.
I couldn’t be more proud.
The NRA stands proudly, resolutely and boldly in the path of the freedom haters that feebly scramble to crush individual freedom and liberty.
As a proud Texan refusing to back down, I remember the Alamo, and believe that Davy Crockett spiritually willed his beloved musket Old Betsey to me, so I swing her proudly every day in the media and everywhere I go to illuminate the left’s anti-gun propaganda and America destroying agenda.
If the facts were the only variable in this culture war street brawl, the brawl would have been over decades ago with the pro-gun team thrashing and smashing the left’s hollow and shrill diatribes and nonsensical hyperbole.
But the culture brawl is, unfortunately, not about facts, logic or truth. Sadly, to the left, it’s about swaying public opinion through crafty and slick messaging and out and out lies. The anti-gun propaganda hit squads have recognized this for years. In fact, our Fast and Furious gun-running Attorney General, Eric Holder, essentially said this a few years ago when he talked about the importance of literally “brainwashing” the American public against guns.
Our public indoctrination schools, lapdog media, politically correct government goons, some deskjockey cops and other useful pawns have willingly drank the anti-gun propaganda cool-aid. They artfully blame so-called gun-violence on supposed lax gun laws, the NRA, the so-called gun show loophole and other such proven nonsense. Too many intellectually shallow and easily manipulated Americans have fallen for their anti-freedom trickery.
The reality is that the five million NRA members and the roughly ten million Americans with conceal carry permits don’t commit gun crimes. We are peaceful, law-abiding good guys who according to leftist, Che Guevara-worshipping stooges, are at fault for young black guys killing other young black guys in St Louis, Detroit, Baltimore, New Orleans and Chicago on a daily basis.
America doesn’t have a gun-violence problem. What America has is a paroled thug problem.
America doesn’t have too few gun laws. We have too many gun laws.

