Top Stories in US & World
Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
This week in 1991 Houston was visited by Queen Elizabeth II
Top Stories in Lifestyle
Top Stories in Jobs
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
By Mary Giliberti  and Susan Pamerleau | May 26, 2015
Page 1 of 1
There is growing consensus among conservatives and liberals alike that too many people are incarcerated and we spend too much money keeping them in jails and prisons with poor long-term outcomes. This is particularly true for inmates with mental illnesses.
The figures are staggering. At least 2 million people with mental illness are booked into local jails across the country every year, equal to the total population of Houston. Most of these people have not committed serious crimes, but are in jail because of untreated mental illness. Nearly 15 percent of men and 30 percent of women booked into jails have a serious mental illness. And at least 83 percent of these individuals did not have access to needed mental health treatment prior to their incarceration. Behind these numbers are distraught mothers, fathers, siblings and individuals with mental illnesses. At the National Alliance on Mental Illness , calls about the incarceration of someone with a mental illness outnumber all other calls.
In addition to the human costs, the fiscal costs of incarcerating people with serious mental illness are exorbitant. The conditions of these individuals generally worsen during incarceration, decreasing the prospects for successful transition back into the community. This can lead to jail becoming a "revolving door," releasing people into homelessness or emergency services.
We can do better. In some communities, we are already doing better.
A number of years ago, Bexar County, San Antonio and surrounding communities realized that inordinate amounts of money were being wasted by jailing people experiencing serious mental health crises. There was little coordination among agencies responsible for providing aid to people with serious mental illness and substance use disorders. Law enforcement officers were not trained on how to de-escalate crises. Jail was frequently the default option for people with serious mental illness in crisis. Not surprisingly, Bexar County's jail was overcrowded beyond capacity.
In 2003, the county established a program to link people with needed mental health and substance abuse services instead of arrests and jail. More than 2,600 law enforcement officers and other first responders were trained in how to recognize and de-escalate psychiatric crises. Additionally, a 24-hour, seven-day-a-week crisis center was established to receive people in need of immediate assistance.
Since this program began, more than 20,000 people with serious mental illness have been identified and diverted from jail into treatment. In the past five years, the program has saved Bexar County more than $50 million. This has been accomplished through wise investments in community mental health services and hiring more professionals to provide mental health and substance abuse treatment.
The city of Houston and Harris County have also taken positive steps to reduce unnecessary incarceration of people with mental illness. Houston police, the Harris County Sheriff's Department and the Harris County Mental Health Mental Retardation Authority have collaborated to develop more than 10 crisis intervention response teams. These teams respond to the most difficult crisis situations involving people with mental illness. Additionally, Adrian Garcia , who until recently was Harris County sheriff, regularly spoke out and elevated awareness about the need for mental health services as an alternative to incarceration. He also supported legislation to provide treatment of individuals with mental illness who are transitioning back into communities.
Now, we have an unprecedented opportunity to create programs like these in many more communities. NAMI, the Council of State Governments Justice Center , National Association of Counties , American Psychiatric Foundation , Major County Sheriffs Association and other law enforcement and mental health organizations are launching an effort to reduce the unnecessary incarceration of people with mental illness. The "Stepping Up" campaign will provide technical assistance and other resources to counties to foster the kind of collaborative efforts that have already led to such positive results in Harris County and elsewhere.
For the first time in 30 years, reducing incarceration is at the forefront of national attention. These objectives cannot be accomplished without addressing the over-representation of people with serious mental illness in local jails.
We will never have a better chance to end the cruel and unnecessary criminalization of mental illness in America. As representatives of those most affected by this national tragedy, we call on communities to "Step Up" and do the right thing.
Giliberti is executive director of the National Alliance on Mental Illness. Pamerleau is sheriff of Bexar County.
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

