By Tasneem Akolawala on May 27, 2015 at 12:35 PM
Apple’s next-generation operating systems, for both mobile devices and PCs, is reportedly going to have a strong focus on zapping bugs and improving stability. It will improve iOS stability  for older iPads and iPhones , and will also bring a new font UI across systems. Now, 9to5Mac  is reporting that iOS 9 is not just bringing Force Touch technology to the iPhone 6s, but also a much-needed new keyboard and some enhancements to iMessage.
Citing multiple sources, iOS 9 is going to be Force Touch-ready, and the company is currently working on the feature so that developers can use it to integrate into their apps. Force Touch input on forthcoming iPhones will only detect how much of the user’s finger is in contact with the screen. This will help it distinguish if it is a long press or just a light tap. While current iPhones have some awareness of this tap radius, the new technology will be able to accurately determine the contact area. The report also says that Force Touch could also be seen on the next-generation iPads .
With iOS 9, Apple is also likely to overhaul the keyboard, addressing some of the pet peeves users have had since the first-gen iPhone in 2007. For instance, Apple would finally fix the Shift key, so users will know whether the caps lock is on or not. At the moment, all alphabets are depicted in uppercase on the keypad at all times. The new keyboard could be slightly longer than the current one, with more control options while in portrait mode.
Apple is also set to introduce Apple Pay in Canada. The technology is being embedded into iOS 9, but the company still needs to finalize talks with Canadian banks. Lastly, some iMessage enhancements are also on the cards. It will bring support for more control on read receipts for individual contacts as well as group chats.
Apart from these, the company is also reportedly building a Home app for controlling all HomeKit devices. iOS 9 is also speculated to bring split-screen support for its larger iPad Pro tablet .
Tags:
Trending
×

