‘Pray for Marriage’ ERLC urges for Supreme Court
April 9 2015 by  Tom Strode, Baptist Press
 
 
 
 
The ERLC and its president, Russell Moore, have signed on to friend-of-the-court briefs urging the justices to uphold the authority of states to limit marriage to a man and a woman. In its invitation to pray, the ERLC provided a sample prayer guide based on various biblical passages. In it, the entity asked Christians to:
“Pray that all people, including governing authorities, would honor the institution of marriage.
“Pray for the Supreme Court justices, that they would be receptive to the arguments being made passionately before them.
“Pray for lead attorneys who will be arguing on behalf of the states seeking to uphold marriage. Ask God to give them clarity and wisdom, for their arguments to be persuasive, and for God to give them favor before the justices.
“Pray for those who disagree with us, that God would help them understand and respect the opinions of those whose definition of marriage is grounded in the biblical witness.
“[P]ray and hope for the best but plan for [an adverse ruling]. Even in the event of a bad decision, marriage will always be what marriage truly is.”
At its website, the ERLC urged prayer by churches and organizations specifically on April 28 at 10 a.m. EDT, when the oral arguments begin. The entity also encouraged the use of a new avatar provided on its website for social media accounts and the inclusion of the hashtag #PrayForMarriage with posts. (The ERLC post and avatar are available at Pray for Marriage .)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(EDITOR’S NOTE – Tom Strode is the Washington bureau chief for Baptist Press, news service of the Southern Baptist Convention.)
4/9/2015 10:19:55 AM by Tom Strode, Baptist Press | with 0 comments
Leave comment
E-mail:
Please enter an e-mail address. Please enter e-mail address in correct format.
Your URL:
Enter security code:
 
P 919.847.2127
F 919-467-6180
E editor@brnow.org
ABOUT THE BIBLICAL RECORDER
Since 1833 the Biblical Recorder has served North Carolina Baptists as the Baptist State Convention's official news journal - with the emphasis on news. The paper was founded by Thomas Meredith, an early pastor, writer and denominational statesman in North Carolina.

