Baltimore Orioles to play in Cuba amid US thaw | Bangkok Post: news
- +
HAVANA - The Baltimore Orioles will become the first US big league team to play in baseball-crazed Cuba since a diplomatic thaw, playing Havana's national team, a Cuban official said.
Starting pitcher Wei-Yin Chen of the Baltimore Orioles throws to a Houston Astros batter in the first inning, at Oriole Park at Camden Yards, in Baltimore, Maryland, on May 25, 2015
In December, US President Barack Obama and Cuba's Raul Castro announced a historic change of course after more than five decades of Cold War bad blood.
"A clash with the Orioles is planned," the director of Cuba's National Institute of Sport, Antonio Becali said on Tuesday, quoted by Radio Habana Cuba.
The Orioles will play "this year against our national team but the date has not been set yet," he said.
The Orioles first string is not expected since they will be busy with their regular season, Becali said.
But he added that Cuba's national team was still looking forward to the clash.
"Cuba is open to these kinds of (exhibition) games with big US league teams," he said.
The teams played each other once before in 1999, first in Havana where the Orioles won 3-2.
The Cubans turned it around and won on the road in a 12-6 romp in Baltimore's Camden Yards.
Cuba's revolutionary icon Fidel Castro outlawed pro sports in 1961.
But his brother Raul made it legal again after he came to power in 2006.
The only Communist government in the Americas allows Cubans to sign with overseas teams, but US teams remain excluded due to Washington's economic embargo on Cuba.
That has led many Cuban stars to defect to the United States.
Cuba's national baseball commissioner, Heriberto Suarez, said this month that the game is being "lacerated" on the island by defections -- about 60 last season.
About a dozen baseball players have signed with teams in Mexico, Japan and Canada.
Tell us what you think about this article
Like dislike 0 people liked / 2 people disliked it
Share this article
0 people commented about the above
Readers are urged not to submit comments that may cause legal dispute including slanderous, vulgar or violent language, incorrectly spelt names, discuss moderation action, quotes with no source or anything deemed critical of the monarchy. More information in our terms of use .
Please use our forum for more candid, lengthy, conversational and open discussion between one another.
Latest
Oldest
Please be aware that all comments will be looked at by the web moderating team and we reserve the right to approve or reject comments at our discretion.
What's your comment?
Tick here to also post this comment on your facebook wall
Please log in or sign up for an account to share your valuable thoughts to the world.
© 1996 - 2015 The Post Publishing PLC

