Recent
Recent
Saved
× Close Ad
2015-05-26T17:59:00Z Sandoval signs more bills into law Elko Daily Free Press
1 hour ago
CARSON CITY – Gov. Brian Sandoval announced Tuesday he has signed 189 individual pieces of legislation into law this session.
“It was an honor to join so many members of the Nevada legislature today in support of good, meaningful, public policy. I am proud of members of the legislature and hundreds of community leaders and stakeholders who worked tirelessly to see these bills through to final passage,” said Sandoval. “We have a lot of work to do in the final days ahead, but I remain confident that we will pass a budget that invests in our students and prepares our state to meet the challenges and opportunities brought forth by the New Nevada economy.”
Among the bills signed this week include:
Assembly Bill 4: This measure removes geographic restrictions on winemaking in Nevada and allows counties with populations greater than 100,000 to make commercial wine. This bill also requires that at least 25% of the wine be produced, blended, or aged using fruit grown in Nevada or be subject to limits on distribution.
Assembly Bill 54: This legislation revises the procedures and regulations governing a local municipality that is experiencing a “Severe Financial Emergency,” and expands the services the Nevada Department of Taxation can offer to struggling local governments. AB 54 will add new requirements for the Department which will include negotiating and approving government employment contracts; opening, negotiating, and renegotiating collective bargaining agreements; and meeting and negotiating in good faith with creditors.
Assembly Bill 62: Assembly Bill 62 was originally sponsored by the Office of the Governor. Among other issues related to Nevada Veterans, this bill establishes “Veterans Day at the Legislature” as a day of observance and allows the Governor to name state buildings, parks, highways, or other property after fallen Nevada service members.
Assembly Bill 108: Unanimously approved in the Senate and Assembly, this measure amends current human trafficking laws in Nevada and allows a district court to grant a motion to vacate a judgment of conviction for the crimes of trespassing, loitering, solicitation, and prostitution, when the defendant was also the victim of the crime of human trafficking or involuntary servitude.
Assembly Bill 193: Presented by Clark County District Attorney Steve Wolfson and Douglas District Attorney Mark Jackson, this legislation is a victim’s rights measure. This bill prevents vulnerable witnesses such as sexually traumatized children and victims of domestic violence from being subjected to repeated court appearance by allowing law enforcement to speak for the witnesses in preliminary legal proceedings.
Assembly Bill 292: This bill allows licensed health care workers to provide services via telehealth to patients in Nevada through the use of technology. It requires insurance policies to cover services provided via teleheath to the same extent and in the same amount as services provided in person.
Assembly Bill 212: This measure amends the statute of limitations for the filing of a criminal charge for sexual assault from 4 years to 20 years after the commission of the offense.
The governor also signed another 47 bills into law on Monday.
Copyright 2015 Elko Daily Free Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Most Popular
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Services
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with elkodaily.com account:
Username & Password Required!

