Indiana faces restoring image just after religious law
(SF Gate) Indiana tourism agencies are rolling out campaigns emphasizing that everybody is welcome, but it could not be adequate to immediately restore the state&#8217s battered image immediately after a backlash more than its religious objections law. An...
(SF Gate) Indiana tourism agencies are rolling out campaigns emphasizing that everybody is welcome, but it could not be adequate to immediately restore the state&#8217s battered image immediately after a backlash more than its religious objections law.
An uproar sparked by fears that the law would let discrimination against gays and lesbians led a handful of convention organizers and performers to cancel events and some state and neighborhood governments to ban travel to the state final week. Revisions to the law&#8217s language have eased some of the criticism, but experts say the state could be dealing with a damaged reputation for years to come.
In a sign that Indiana is still below close scrutiny, hundreds of gay rights supporters marched to the internet site of the NCAA Final Four in Indianapolis on Saturday as college basketball fans have been arriving for the games. The marches known as for the state to go additional and enshrine in its civil rights law protection for gays and lesbians.
Chris Gahl, vice president of Go to Indy, the lead promoter for Indianapolis, said he has been in &#8220full crisis mode” due to the fact the furor erupted right after Gov. Mike Pence signed the law late last month.
Gahl stated Take a look at Indy received a lot more than 800 emails from people saying they had been canceling trips for events such as the Indianapolis 500 or choosing a different getaway location. The agency has been scrambling to protect against groups and businesses from either pulling out of negotiations for future conventions or canceling upcoming events altogether.
Study the complete story ›
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

