Oops! Man wears polo shirt to Obama meeting
An employee of a solar company in Utah attended an impromptu meeting with president Obama, wearing a polo shirt and feeling extremely underdressed.
Carolyn Kaster | APPresident Barack Obama participates in a roundtable about thoroughly clean electrical power, Friday, April 3, 2015, at Hill Air Force Base, Utah. Seated with the president starting off with the president and going clockwise are: Obama, Judy Fisher, Marvin Lance Futch, Rep. Rob Bishop, R-Utah, Harry &quotBuddy" Briesmaster III, Thaniel Bishop, Salt Lake City Mayor Ralph Becker, Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and Michelle Fisher.
An worker of a photo voltaic corporation around Salt Lake Town, Utah, thought he was attending a conference for which a polo shirt with his firm emblem would be suited. The meeting turned out to be a roundtable with President Barack Obama  very last Friday, the New York Put up studies.
"Well, if I would have known this, I would have worn my navy blues or at minimum a fit and tie," Vivint Solar personnel Lance Futch advised The Submit. Futch is also member of the Air Countrywide Guard, in accordance to the report.
Futch was advised that the assembly only essential the presence of a firm representative in the audience.
"Turns out they wanted a representative for a distinctive roundtable with the president, said a enterprise representative in a Reddit article. "Thanks to this blend-up we sent my close friend...in its place of the CEO."
Futch was capable to make the best of the embarrassing predicament and talk about Vivint Solar's part in the solar market with the president. Due to the fact the incident, Futch attained awareness and has been interviewed by various media outlets.
Click on here to read through the entire story from the New York Publish.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers
Ad Soyad:
 
UYARI: Küfür, hakaret, rencide edici cümleler veya imalar, inançlara saldırı içeren, imla kuralları ile yazılmamış, Türkçe karakter kullanılmayan ve tamamı büyük harflerle yazılmış yorumlar onaylanmamaktadır. Ayrıca suç teşkil edecek hakaret içerikli yorumlar hakkında muhatapları tarafından dava açılabilmektedir.
Breaking News Headlines
Related Breaking News

