Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
The Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Subcommittee will hold the hearing in Washington next Tuesday.
Post to Facebook
Panel to hold hearing on deadly Takata air bag ruptures The Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Subcommittee will hold the hearing in Washington next Tuesday. Check out this story on Freep.com: http://on.freep.com/1HJGhwG
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Panel to hold hearing on deadly Takata air bag ruptures
By Todd Spangler, Detroit Free Press 9:35 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
This photo provided by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety shows a crash test of a 2002 Honda CR-V, one of the models subject to a recall to repair faulty air bags made by Takata Corp.
(Photo: Insurance Institute for Highway Safety via Associated Press)
WASHINGTON — A week after federal regulators and air bag maker Takata announced the largest safety recall in U.S. history, a congressional subcommittee said today it would hold a hearing next week to get an update on the widening campaign to address potentially deadly air bag inflators.
The Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Subcommittee — part of the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee — will hold the hearing in Washington next Tuesday as congressional investigators try to get to the bottom of what the full committee chairman, U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, called "a year of Takata ruptures and recalls."
A witness list wasn't immediately released but it is expected that federal transportation officials, including regulators with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, would be on hand to discuss last week's announcement that Takata, for the first time, officially acknowledged the defect and was expanding what had been a regional recall nationwide.
The recall now covers an estimated 34 million vehicles, making it the largest safety recall in the nation's history. At least six people have died and more than 100 have been injured when air bag inflators have ruptured, ejecting shards of metal into drivers and passengers.
The subcommittee last held a hearing on the status of the recall in December and Upton said it's past time for "Takata, NHTSA, and the manufacturers to explain to drivers what went wrong and how and when they can fix it." In last week's announcement, federal regulators acknowledged that the root cause of the defect is still not known and that it could take years to complete the recall.
The hearing is set for 2 p.m. next Tuesday.
Contact Todd Spangler at 703-854-8947 or at tspangler@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter at @tsspangler.
TOP VIDEOS
More Stories

