Comment
Updated at 9:21 PM
Updated at 9:21 PM
»  Social News
FOXBORO – Where the linebacker position is concerned, it looks like the Patriots are putting the old band back together.
After a one-year stint with Tampa Bay, Dane Fletcher has returned whence he came.
Fletcher, who developed into a solid special teams player and dependable backup linebacker during his first stint with the Patriots, appeared in all 16 of the Buccaneers’ games last year, starting four, compiling a career-high 39 tackles on defense.
Now, one week after Brandon Spikes came back from Buffalo, Fletcher has returned to his NFL roots, too.
The Patriots announced the signings of Fletcher and wide receiver Zach D’Orazio, a rookie free agent out of Akron, on Tuesday.
Six-foot-two and 245 pounds, Fletcher broke into the league with New England in 2010 as a rookie free agent out of Montana State, where he earned the Big Sky Conference’s defensive MVP honors while lining up at end in 2009.
In three seasons with the Patriots – he missed all of 2012 after tearing his anterior cruciate ligament – Fletcher appeared in 38 games, starting six, registering 81 tackles and four sacks, recovering three fumbles and breaking up two passes on defense.
Over that same time he totaled 31 tackles on special teams, leading the Patriots with 15 tackles in that department in 2013, one more than perennial Pro Bowler and special teams captain Matthew Slater.
In addition to his 39 tackles at linebacker last season, Fletcher broke up a pass and was credited with a half-sack with the Buccaneers, who signed him to a one-year contract worth $1.2 million as an unrestricted free agent in March 2014.
Like Fletcher, Spikes also broke into the league with the Patriots in 2010. A second-round draft pick out of Florida that year, Spikes also left the team as an unrestricted free agent in mid-March of 2014, signing a one-year deal with the Bills.
With Jerod Mayo (torn patellar tendon) and Dont’a Hightower (torn labrum) both rehabbing from surgical procedures, the Patriots have made a concerted effort to fortify themselves at linebacker with veterans who are familiar with their system.
McGinest elected: Linebacker Willie McGinest has been elected by fans as the 24th person to enter the Patriots Hall of Fame.
McGinest and the late Houston Antwine, who was selected by the hall’s senior selection committee in April, will be inducted into the hall in a ceremony outside Gillette Stadium this summer.
“I knew I was one of a couple of really talented players who were also deserving and just paying my respect to all the players who put on Patriots uniforms who also deserve the honor,” said McGinest, who earned more votes from fans than two other finalists, cornerback Raymond Clayborn and offensive tackle Leon Gray. “I’m just happy and … blessed to be in this position and humbled by being inducted.”
Updated at 9:21 PM
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.

