Credit WBEZ / WTTW
Emanuel took to T.V. cameras to emphasize something he’s pushed since his very early days in office. He says he’s brought corporate headquarters and new jobs to the city.
“Now we don’t have natural gas,” Emanuel said. “We don’t have oil. We don’t have Silicon Valley. So how did Chicago lead?”
Emanuel says he led with strong economic and transportation plans. But while Emanuel continues to make that pitch, Garcia is pitching education as his strong suit.
Garcia made his case outside a Chicago Public School on the city’s northwest side.
“Fifty-five percent of voters in the first round voted for change, and that’s why 90 percent of those who voted for it, voted for an elected school board in Chicago.”
Friday was the last day to early vote. Nearly twice as many voters have already done that compared to February’s election.
Emanuel focused his attacks on Garcia’s financial plan, or at least a lack of detail in how he’d handle the city’s financial problems. Garcia has spent two days now hitting back at Emanuel for not being more transparent about the city’s finances.
“We’re gonna let citizens and taxpayers know exactly what the situation is and then put before them a variety of difficult medicines as to how we move forward,” Garcia said.
Emanuel calls that a “secret budget.” At his own press event, Emanuel insinuated he has the leadership chops to bring new jobs to Chicago.
“And if you don’t have good leadership, we have seen that movie and it’s a horror flick,” Emanuel said. “Jobs, businesses and families leave.”
Emanuel denied he was talking directly about Garcia in that statement.
The U.S. attorney's office in Chicago says it'll monitor tomorrow's local mayoral election and field any complaints alleging voting fraud. Prosecutors say the FBI's Chicago office and the U.S. Marshals Service would help look into any credible complaints about election fraud if necessary.
Tomorrow's contest will also feature runoffs for aldermanic contests.
WBEZ's Tony Arnold contributed to this report.
Tags: 

