Recent
Recent
RECENT
Recent
Recent
MORE
MORE
RECENT
Saved
«
»
Kimber Edwards was sentenced to death for the 2000 murder of Kimberly Cantrell. The Missouri Supreme Court has set a May execution date.
Two black men face executions this spring after being sentenced to death by all white juries. Read more
The Missouri Supreme Court late Wednesday night vacated its execution order for a St. Louis County man who had a hit man kill his ex-wife in 2000.
Kimber Edwards, 51, was scheduled to die by injection on May 12.
The state Supreme Court, however, announced late Wednesday that the execution warrant has been withdrawn and a stay granted. The court did not explain why it made that move.
Edwards' execution was mentioned in a letter sent this month to Gov. Jay Nixon and signed by dozens of elected officials, clerk members and opponents of the death penalty. They asked that the pending executions of Edwards and another man be halted while an investigation is done to examine the exclusion of blacks from juries in St. Louis County death-penalty cases.
According to the letter, the St. Louis County prosecutor in Edwards' case removed all three African-American panelists who remained on the jury pool. One was removed for fear he would be anti-law enforcement because the police had treated his niece unfairly, the letter said. "Yet, the prosecution did not strike a white juror whose nephew was in prison for a burglary and who complained about the harshness of the criminal justice system," the letter said. Another black person who was a postal worker was excluded from the jury pool because the prosecution said it strikes all postal workers from juries.
"A Board of Inquiry should investigate whether the St. Louis County Prosecutor’s Office has intentionally and systematically excluded African Americans from jury service in capital cases," the letter tells Nixon.
Edwards was convicted in April 2002 of first-degree murder in the slaying of his ex-wife, Kimberly Cantrell. Cantrell, 35, was shot twice in the head while she was in her apartment in the 1100 block of Midland Avenue in University City.
Prosecutors said Edwards contracted Cantrell’s murder to prevent her testimony in a child-support hearing that could have led to criminal charges against Edwards due to a year’s backlog of payments.
What jurors at Edwards’ trial did not hear was testimony from Orthell Wilson, 40, of St. Louis, who pleaded guilty to killing Cantrell three weeks before Edwards’ trial began.
In exchange for the plea, prosecutors declined to seek the death penalty against Wilson, who was sentenced to life in prison without parole. Wilson told police that Edwards gave him a key to Cantrell’s apartment, a gun and $500 of a promised $3,500 for the killing, but he was not called as a witness at Edwards’ trial.
The defense argued that Edwards, a corrections officer at the St. Louis City Workhouse, was framed by both former jail inmates and by disgruntled renters that Edwards had evicted from properties he owned.
The last execution in Missouri was that of Cecil Clayton, 74, on March 17. Clayton killed a sheriff’s deputy in rural southwestern Missouri’s Barry County in 1996.
Clayton was executed despite claims by his attorneys that he had a diminished mental capacity because of a sawmill accident decades ago. Gov. Jay Nixon denied a clemency request and the nation’s high court turned aside appeals claiming Clayton was mentally incompetent.
Copyright 2015 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with www.stltoday.com account:
Username & Password Required!

