 
By Vicki Needham - 04/03/15 04:35 PM EDT
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said Friday that a massive Asia-Pacific trade deal must get done before the 2016 presidential campaign season kicks into high gear.
Vilsack said that time is running short to move trade promotion authority (TPA) legislation through Congress and smooth passage of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) before year’s end.
“The window of opportunity for completing trade agreements is tied to this calendar year,” he said during a call with reporters and agriculture business owners.
“I think the goal is to get this done in time to allow us to conclude the TPP negotiations and get that trade agreement approved some time before the end of the calendar year.”
Without TPA, also known as fast-track authority, the United States faces a difficult time concluding TPP negotiations because “our trading partners can’t be assured that the deal won’t be subject to modification or amendment.”
The 11 other countries involved in the negotiations aren’t expected to put their best deals on the table until Congress can pass fast-track and guarantee that an inked trade deal won’t be changed.
“It’s important for Congress now to provide this president with the same authority in terms of trade promotion that every president’s had since Franklin Delano Roosevelt,” Vilsack said.
Facing a barrage of vocal Democratic opposition, Vilsack enlisted smaller agriculture firms  to convince congressional lawmakers that they need to back the White House’s trade agenda.
He suggested that business owners show up at town-hall meetings and lobby lawmakers in Washington with personal visits, emails and phone calls explaining how expanding U.S. export markets will allow them to hire and grow.
“We need a correspondingly well-organized and powerful counter-message and that can come from small business,” he said.
Farmers have set export records in four of the past six years, supporting 1.1 million jobs, Vilsack said.
He said TPP is an opportunity to reach 525 million middle-class customers in Asia, a number that is projected to reach 3.2 billion over next 15 years.
He said 70 agricultural organizations are urging Congress to pass TPA and get the TPP completed and submitted to Congress for approval.
Democrats remain strongly divided on trade, arguing that past agreements caused jobs losses and economic slowdowns.
So, the focus turns to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and ranking member Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), who have spent the first months of the year grappling with legislation that would fast-track trade deals through Congress.
A bill could emerge after Congress's current two-week spring recess.
Vilsack argued that failure to complete the TPP would give China an opening to write the trade rules in the Asia-Pacific, sapping U.S leverage in the region across economic and strategic lines.
“I think there’s no question that we would prefer having the United States lead the discussion and conversation about higher labor standards or environmental standards, intellectual property protections or enforcement than the Chinese,” he said.
“That’s certainly what is confronting us.”
1 day
Menendez charges put Iran... The Foreign Relations Committee is set to vote April 14 on a bill he co-...
Indiana pizzeria closes after... Memories Pizza had said it would not cater gay weddings, provoking a fury. 
Bachmann compares Obama to... The former rep called the president "a deranged pilot flying his entire...
Revealing Israel's nuclear secrets The declassification of a Pentagon document will prove exceedingly awkward...
Court skeptical of seizing Clinton... Larry Klayman is seeking to have Hillary Clinton's email server "taken...
Obama hails 'historic' Iran deal "It is a good deal, a deal that meets our core objectives," Obama said.
Miley Cyrus goes after Republican... The pop star hit Sen. Tom Cotton for his remarks about Indiana's religious...
Supporters raise over $200K for... The pizzeria said it would not cater gay weddings, triggering a firestorm.
IRS chief to GOP: You can't... GOP could call agency "something other than the IRS if that made you feel...
Tech firm Salesforce helping... CEO Marc Benioff is allowing employees upset by the religious freedom law...
Top Senate Republican pressures... Cornyn wants watchdog to ensure the email issue is scrutinized.
Gruber: ObamaCare quote in court... Jonathan Gruber said there's an "enormous lack of understanding" about the...
Email Alerts *

