Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
U.S. geologist accused of espionage released from Chinese prison
According to the human rights group, Xue Feng has been reunited with his family, who live in Houston.
Post to Facebook
U.S. geologist accused of espionage released from Chinese prison According to the human rights group, Xue Feng has been reunited with his family, who live in Houston. Check out this story on KHOU.com: http://on.khou.com/1D5SZ5c
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
U.S. geologist accused of espionage released from Chinese prison
An American geologist Xue Feng, who was sentenced in China for procuring state secrets, has been released from a Beijing prison, human rights group Dui Hua said. KHOU
Jessica Estepa, USA TODAY 10:49 p.m. CDT April 4, 2015
An American geologist who was sentenced in China for procuring state secrets has been released from a Beijing prison, human rights group Dui Hua said.
According to San Francisco-based Dui Hua, Xue Feng was working in China when he helped his employer, energy consulting firm IHS, purchase an oil industry database. But that data was classified, and Xue — a naturalized American citizen born in China — was detained in the country in late 2007.
That led to Chinese officials formally detaining him in 2008. In 2009, Xue was tried for illegally gathering information on the country's oil industry.
He was sentenced to eight years in prison in 2010, and his case was upheld in 2011. Xue received a 10-month reduction to his sentence in 2012 for good behavior.
Xue's case has drawn attention from the White House, Congress and the U.S. embassy in Beijing. He received regular visits from U.S. ambassadors Jon Huntsman, Gary Locke and Max Baucus, as well as their staff.
The embassy did not immediately return a request for comment.
According to the human rights group, Xue has been reunited with his family, who live in Houston.
Read or Share this story: http://on.khou.com/1D5SZ5c
More Stories

