Records on ex-chairman Samson, United Airlines sought in probe of Port Authority
April 8, 2015, 6:47 PM    Last updated: Wednesday, April 8, 2015, 7:00 PM
By SHAWN BOBURG
Former Port Authority Chairman David Samson
The Port Authority on Wednesday provided its most detailed accounting yet of what federal investigators are focused on in the 15-month probe that grew out of the George Washington Bridge lane closure scanda l.
The disclosure, in a notice to potential buyers of Port Authority bonds, indicates that federal prosecutors have issued grand jury subpoenas demanding a wide range of documents related to a flight route United Airlines created between Newark and Columbia, South Carolina — close to a weekend home of Port Authority Chairman David Samson . The route, which Samson referred to as the “chairman’s flight,” according to one source, was cancelled three days after Samson resigned last year.
The Record reported in February that federal authorities had asked the Port Authority for Samson’s personal travel records and communications with United and its lobbyist. But the disclosure says authorities also asked for records of any travel by Samson’s family members or guests.
An in-depth look at the scandal over the lane closures at the George Washington Bridge and related aftershocks. Click here to launch .
The subpoenas also demand information about several matters that were the subject of negotiations between the Port Authority and United while Samson was chairman, including United’s construction of a wide-body aircraft maintenance hangar and the airline’s lease of land to build the hangar.
The Port Authority also received a letter from federal authorities in New Jersey requesting that the agency preserve all records concerning the redevelopment of two terminals at the airport, Terminal A and Terminal C, as well as United’s lease of Terminal C. United operates most of its flights out of Terminal C.
Authorities also want the Port Authority to save documents related to the extension of the PATH train line to Newark Airport — a project that United had pushed for in recent years — and United’s flights out of Atlantic City. The airline’s service in Atlantic City was hailed by Governor Christie as part of the city’s rebirth, but it lasted less than a year.
The disclosure also lists subpoenas issued by other agencies investigating the Port Authority and its former officials. The Manhattan District Attorney’s Office, it states, has asked for records related to the observation deck at One World Trade Center.
The contract to manage the operation deck was won by Legends, a company partly owned by Dallas Cowboys Jerry Jones, who Christie has said was a friend. That relationship stirred controversy late last year when Jones flew Christie to a playoff football game and hosted him in the owner’s suite, raising questions about whether the personal relationship influenced the awarding of the observation deck contract. Christie has denied any connection.
Email: boburg@northjersey.com
Tags:

