1:28 | 04/06/15
Coming up next:
Enhanced full screen
Explore related content
Related Extras
Related Videos
Video Transcript
Transcript for 9-Year-Old Sophia's Bright Idea Gets Her an Invite to the White House Easter Egg Hunt
Finally tonight here, America strong. A 9-year-old girl that had an idea and she just had to write the president about it. It got her an invite to the white house, with some unexpected guests, too. The president was Reading "Where the wild things are." They were screaming about something else. Oh, no, it's a bee. Reporter: Oh, it's a bee, the president said. He kept going. Even looking to his team. But somewhere in that crowd was someone else. Brave enough to do something else. The reason she was at the white house was this letter. 9-year-old Sophia, from Massachusetts. Dear Mr. President. I'm writing to know why there aren't many women on the dollars coins for the United States. If there were no women, there wouldn't be men. Ch she goes on to say, Sophia. She provided a list, among the names, Rosa parks, Eleanor Roosevelt, Michelle Obama. She heard back. Dear Sophia. The women you listed and drew make up an impressive group. And inmust say, you're pretty impressive, too. Since sincerely, Barack Obama. What did she get? An invitation to the Easter egg roll. Hi, David. I'm Sophia. This is my brother, Cole. I'm so proud of my sister. Reporter: So fee Ya, still waiting. I really hope we can get a woman on the $20 bill. Hoping to get a woman on the $20 bill. So fee Ya with a bright idea for our $20 bills. In the meantime, I'm David Muir. Thanks for watching here on a Monday night. And I hope to see you right back here tomorrow.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: That Adorable Moment When President Obama Got Interrupted by Bees
Now Playing: Vacation Turned Nightmare: Family Poisoned at Caribbean Resort
Now Playing: Road Rage Arrest in Houston
Now Playing: 9-Year-Old Sophia's Bright Idea Gets Her an Invite to the White House Easter Egg Hunt
Now Playing: Index: Starbucks to Offer Free College Tuition to Employees
Now Playing: March Madness Showdown Between Duke and Wisconsin
Now Playing: Cleveland Police Officer Michael Brelo Charged With Manslaughter
Now Playing: Heavy Rains and Snow Headed to California in Drought Emergency
Now Playing: NYC Terror Suspect Appears Mild-Mannered in Video
Now Playing: Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Claims Lives of Family of 8 in Maryland
Now Playing: PHI KAPPA PSI Fires Back Over UVA Story in Rolling Stone Alleging Gang Rape
Now Playing: The Fate of Alleged Boston Bomber in the Hands of the Jury
Now Playing: American Bravery on Full Display for Hero Firefighter
Now Playing: Index: Contestant on 'Price Is Right' Wins a Car Because of a Mistake
Now Playing: Nightmare Customer Service Calls
Now Playing: Mother of Three May Become the First Female Referee in the NFL
Now Playing: Man Survived 66 Days at Sea
Now Playing: Death Row Release After 30 Years
Now Playing: Woman Arrested in Philadelphia for Allegedly Trying to Join ISIS
Now Playing: More Chilling Details Revealed About the Last 10 Minutes of the Tragic French Alps Plane Crash
Now Playing: {{itm.title}}
{"id":30129160,"title":"9-Year-Old Sophia's Bright Idea Gets Her an Invite to the White House Easter Egg Hunt","duration":"1:28","description":"Find out what Sophia wrote in a letter to President Obama, and how the president responded.","url":"/WNT/video/year-sophias-bright-idea-invite-white-house-easter-30129160","section":"WNT","mediaType":"Default"}

