An off-duty member of the Secret Service’s uniformed division was arrested Friday morning and charged with trying to kick in the front door of his ex-girlfriend’s apartment.
Arthur E. Baldwin, 29, was charged with first-degree burglary and destruction of property. According to D.C. Superior Court charging documents, police arrived at the apartment in the 3200 block of D Street SE and noticed dents, broken hinges and a boot print on the front door. Also, two apartment windows were shattered.
When police arrived at the apartment, the woman, who, according to the report, was crying, shaking and “appeared to be in fear of her life” told officers that her ex-boyfriend wouldn’t “leave me alone.”
Baldwin, according to the report, left the scene before officers arrived. The woman told the responding officer that her ex-boyfriend was a police officer, and she did not want him to lose his job.
Minutes later, according to the charging documents, Baldwin returned to the apartment. The responding officer asked Baldwin for his service weapon. Baldwin told the officer the pistol was in his vehicle in a book bag. The officer recovered a Sig Saur, 229 with one magazine loaded with live cartridges of ammunition.
Baldwin told the officer he kicked in the door, but denied breaking the windows, according to the documents. Police said in the documents that Baldwin had not gotten close enough to notice the windows had been broken.
Baldwin was assigned to the Foreign Missions Branch, Brian Leary, a spokesman for the Secret Service said in a statement. As a result of the arrest, Baldwin has been placed on administrative leave and has had his security clearance suspended. The Secret Service is also investigating the incident, Leary said.
At Baldwin’s initial hearing, a judge ordered Baldwin released from custody and said he must stay away from the woman. His next hearing is scheduled for April 23. Calls to Baldwin’s public defender were not returned.
The Baldwin arrest is the third incident that has prompted an investigation of Secret Service agents recently. Earlier this week , The Washington Post reported a senior Secret Service manager, Xavier Morales, 48, was put on leave and had his security clearance suspended after a female agent accused him of assaulting her following a March 31 party. D.C. police’s sex crime unit and a government inspector general were investigating the allegation.
Also, the Obama administration is looking into a March 4 incident in which two senior agents, returning from a retirement party at a downtown bar, drove an agency car into an active White House bomb threat investigation.
Keith Alexander covers crime, specifically D.C. Superior Court cases for The Washington Post. He has covered dozens of crime stories from Banita Jacks, the Washington woman charged with killing her four daughters, to the murder trial of slain federal intern Chandra Levy.
Carol Leonnig covers federal agencies with a focus on government accountability.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

