Sign up and we notify you about new features and Add-Ons
Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s top automaker, said Wednesday it will release the world’s first car that links to U.S. Google Inc.’s Android Auto app, adding the service will officially kick off in the United States later this month.
The platform will be first applied to the 2015 Sonata sedan and will later be expanded to other models, Hyundai Motor said.
The Android Auto is an app that allows users to access the main features of Android smartphones while driving by looking at digital displays in their cars. The integration will reduce distractions to drivers, Hyundai said.
To ensure safety, smartphones’ screens will be locked when linked to an automobile so that users cannot use other features of their devices.
The service has not yet kicked off in South Korea, as Google Maps, one of the key features of the app, has a limited presence here.
Users will be required to have a smartphone that runs on the Android 5.0 Lollipop operating system.
Related
Yonhap News
Yonhap News is South Korea's largest news agency based in Seoul.
Want to Stay Anonymous?
If you need to file a consumer complaint anonymously on fears of South Korea's infamous defamation law, you may log in with the username "consumer" and the password "consumer."
News Alert Service
Enter your email address to receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
 
One killed in predawn fire at warehouse in Gimpo; Firefighters put out a fire at an apparel warehouse in Gimpo, west of Seoul, on May 25, 2015, in this photo provided by the Kiho Ilbo newspaper. The blaze, which occurred around 2:16 that day, left a worker dead and hundreds of tons of apparel destroyed.
Buddhists celebrate Buddha’s birthday in S. Korea; Buddhists pour water over a statue of Buddha during a ceremony at Jogye Temple in Seoul on May 25, 2015 to celebrate the birth of the faith’s founder.
Body cam deployed for S. Korean police for 1st time;  This photo, taken on May 25, 2015, shows a body camera mounted on a police officer from a police station in the southwestern city of Gunsan. Body cameras are those mounted on the front of a uniform and set to record an officer’s law enforcement of crime scenes. The Gunsan police have deployed four body cameras for the first time in South Korea, as part of its efforts to apprehend criminals interfering with their execution of duties and procurement of assault and robbery evidence.
Pandas in Seoul A group of Panda figurines are displayed in central Seoul on May 23, 2015, to boost public awareness about environmental preservation.
Kim Jong-un inspects military unit This is a screenshot of footage broadcast on Korean Central TV on May 24, 2015 showing North Korean leader Kim Jong-un carrying out a field inspection of a military unit in North Hamkyong Province. It did not specify the date or time of his visit. Kim is accompanied by Hwang Byong-so, vice marshal of the Korean People’s Army, and Jang Chang-hwa, a major general, but not Hyon Yong-chol, the North’s defense chief who South Korea believes was executed last month. (KCTV-Yonhap) (END)
U.S. envoy at S. Korean forum U.S. Ambassador to South Korea Mark Lippert points to his healing wound during a forum on inter-Korean unification in the city of Jeju on South Korea’s largest island of Jeju on May 22, 2015, praising South Korean medical technology.
Gangneung Dano Festival starts with libation making People brew “sinju,” or sacred wine, that will be used for a traditional rite of Gangneung Dano Festival, while covering their mouths so as not to ruin their luck, in the city of Gangneung on South Korea’s east coast on May 22, 2015. The production of “sinju” marks the start of the festival beginning from April 5 on the lunar calendar that fell on the same date on the solar calendar. Designated by the U.N. Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization as one of the world’s new intangible cultural assets, the festival is celebrated to pray for favorable weather for farming and fishing and a good harvest. (Yonhap) (END)
Activists protest DMZ crossing Anti-North Korea activists shout slogans protesting the Women Cross DMZ Peace Walk on May 24, 2015, in which about 30 female activists are expected to cross the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), or the heavily-fortified inter-Korean border, as a symbol of peace. (Yonhap) (END)
Japan turns to WTO over S. Korea’s import ban A merchant takes care of her products at a fishery market in Seoul on May 22, 2015, one day after Japan notified South Korea that it wants to start a consultation under the World Trade Organization over Seoul’s ban of Japanese fishery products due to fears of radiation contamination following the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster. (Yonhap) (END)
Cuban jazz trumpeter in Seoul; Cuban jazz trumpeter and pianist Arturo Sandoval performs during a jazz festival in Seoul on May 25, 2015.
Seaside bathing to beat heat wave;  People visit a bathing place at Haeundae Beach in the port city of Busan on May 25, 2015, as a heat wave grips South Korea, with the mercury rising above 30 C in most cities.
Japanese historians issue statement against distorting history; Toru Kubo (R), head of the Japanese Society of History Studies, speaks during a press conference in Tokyo on May 25, 2015, to announce a joint statement, issued by 16 organizations related to history and historical education, which criticizes Japan for distorting the history of its wartime sexual slavery.
Dance genius recreates legendary dancer’s works; South Korea’s new dance star Seok Ye-bin performs during a rehearsal at a university in Seoul on May 25, 2015, to recreate the works of legendary dancer Choi Seung-hee (1911-1967), who blazed the trail for Korea’s modern dance during Japan’s colonial rule of the Korean Peninsula. Billed as “the second Choi Seung-hee,” the 19-year-old Seok is aiming to continue Choi’s dancing style and legacies.
Dance genius recreates legendary dancer’s works; South Korea’s new dance star Seok Ye-bin performs during a rehearsal at a university in Seoul on May 25, 2015, to recreate the works of legendary dancer Choi Seung-hee (1911-1967), who blazed the trail for Korea’s modern dance during Japan’s colonial rule of the Korean Peninsula. Billed as “the second Choi Seung-hee,” the 19-year-old Seok is aiming to continue Choi’s dancing style and legacies.
Korea Observer Videos
Facebook
Twitter

