A
A
A
Share this URL
Andrew Burton/Getty Images
Hillary Clinton has previously drawn fire for the foundation’s acceptance of foreign donations from governments and individuals with business before the U.S. government.
The Clinton Foundation is taking a big check from a Moroccan government-owned company, potentially creating headaches for Hillary as she moves towards a presidential run.
The Foundation has been planning a major conference in Marrakech for months, and according to a report in Politico it’s being funded largely by a donation of at least $1 million from OPC, a company owned by the Moroccan government.
Clinton has previously drawn fire for the foundation’s acceptance of foreign donations from governments and individuals with business before the U.S. government, with Republicans questioning what they might be trying to buy - Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul has blasted them as “thinly veiled bribes.”
While the Foundation has promised to return to self-imposed rules against accepting donations from foreign governments when she makes her campaign official, though it’s unclear what that means for this donation, as this event is likely to occur after Clinton announces her campaign.
JOEL PAGE/REUTERS
Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul has blasted the donations as “thinly veiled bribes.”
Clinton isn’t expected to attend the event, and a foundation spokesman points out that the company is publicly listed as a donor on the event’s website.
“The Clinton Foundation has a record of transparency that goes above what is required of U.S. charities. This includes the voluntary disclosure of contributions on the Foundation's website,” Clinton Foundation spokesman Craig Minassian tells the Daily News. “Should Secretary Clinton declare for office, we will continue to ensure the Foundation's policies and practices regarding support from international partners are appropriate, just as we did when she served as Secretary of State."
Related Stories
Editors' Picks
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

