Recent
Recent
2015-04-03T04:45:00Z Letter: Nevada should take control of public lands Elko Daily Free Press
4 hours ago
Editor:
On March 31st I went to Carson City to attend the reading and public comments for AB408. This bill is in response to the BLM's actions at the Bundy Ranch last year and other actions by federal agencies throughout the Western states. It tells the federal government that Nevada land belongs to Nevadans and not the Feds.
In listening to the comments for and against the bill it was easy to come to some conclusions. The people for the bill claim the Federal Constitution limits the amount of land the Feds are allowed to control and 85 percent of Nevada is not included. Also, court cases as far back as the early 1800s say that additional States are to be given the same rights as the original States.
Once you get past the hostility and name calling, those opposed to the bill complained that it would be too expensive for the State to maintain the "Public" lands, that people would no longer have access to those lands, and that Nevadans are just too dumb to be able to manage those lands.
Personally, I support the bill.
As for the cost, I don't think the Feds manage money very well. They're even worse at it than I am. As for access, when a rancher fences in some public land the signs on that land say "Please close the gate." When the BLM makes hundreds of thousands of acres off limits you can be fined, jailed, or even shot for crossing into "their" land. I also believe we have some pretty smart people in Nevada who can do a better job than the Feds do.
When our nation was designed and built it was to provide the States with maximum freedoms and to limit federal influence. For more than a hundred years the Federal Government has been ignoring its mandated limitations and imposing it's will on "We The People."
Two-thousand miles from here 500 men and women declare their ability to control every aspect of the lives of more than 300 million Americans. I disagree! We are not serfs who are subject to the whim of whichever political ideology happens to be in power at the time.
It's time for the American people and the States to take their rights back from the Federal Government.
Scott Allen
Spring Creek
Copyright 2015 Elko Daily Free Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Most Popular
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Services
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with elkodaily.com account:
Username & Password Required!

