Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
Day in the life: Working in a NICU requires dedicated nurses
Top Stories in Jobs
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
Mormon leaders outline support for marriage for man-woman
By BRADY McCOMBS, Associated Press | April 4, 2015 | Updated: April 4, 2015 5:38pm
Page 1 of 1
Photo By Rick Bowmer/AP 
People attend the opening session of the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file in and out of the church's conference center over five sessions Saturday and Sunday.
Photo By Rick Bowmer/AP 
President Thomas S. Monson of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, right, shakes hands with Boyd K. Packer, president of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, during the opening session of the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file in and out of the church's conference center over five sessions Saturday and Sunday.
Photo By Rick Bowmer/AP 
President Thomas S. Monson of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, center, is flanked by President Henry B. Eyring, First Counselor in the First Presidency, left, and Dieter F. Uchtdorf, Second Counselor in the First Presidency during opening session of the two-day Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 Mormons descended on Salt Lake City for the faith’s biannual conference to listen to spiritual guidance from leaders and to learn about church news.
Photo By Rick Bowmer/AP 
People walk past the Salt Lake Temple on the way to the opening session of the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file in and out of the church's conference center over five sessions Saturday and Sunday.
Photo By Rick Bowmer/AP 
President Thomas S. Monson, of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, waves to the audience during the opening session of the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file in and out of the church's conference center over five sessions Saturday and Sunday.
Photo By Rick Bowmer/AP 
People walk past the Salt Lake Temple on the way to the opening session of the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file in and out of the church's conference center over five sessions Saturday and Sunday.
Photo By Rick Bowmer/AP 
 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) — Mormon leaders vowed to be a leading advocate for the belief that marriage is an institution exclusive to a man and a woman during the religion's biannual conference Saturday that also included two rare events.
The first came when the conference kicked off without the usual welcoming address from church President Thomas S. Monson , 87, who days earlier also missed a meeting with President Barack Obama while he was in Utah.
Monson, who was still present at conference and walked in on his own, skipped the speech as part of a decision to reduce the number of speeches he's giving this weekend, church officials said. He was scheduled to speak later this weekend.
The second unusual event occurred when five people stood up and yelled, "Opposed," during a part of the conference when attendees usually raise their hands in unison in a vote of support for church leadership, drawing some gasps by surprised attendees who hadn't seen this kind of act for decades. They represented only a handful of the 20,000 in attendance.
Highlights from the conference in Salt Lake City:
___
SUPPORT FOR MARRIAGE BETWEEN A MAN-WOMAN
L. Tom Perry , a member of the faith's Quorum of the Twelve, cautioned Mormons not to be swayed by a world filled with media and entertainment that presents the minority masquerading as the majority and tries to make mainstream values seem obsolete.
Perry said strong, traditional families are the basic units of a stable society, a stable economy and a stable culture of values. He noted that Mormons investment in the topic is even deeper than other religions because they believe marriages and family are for eternity.
"We want our voice to be heard against all of the counterfeit and alternative lifestyles that try to replace the family organization that God Himself established," said Perry.
D. Todd Christofferson , another member of the quorum, added more on the topic, saying, "A family built on the marriage of a man and woman supplies the best setting for God's plan to thrive — the setting for the birth of children who come in purity and innocence from God."
Christofferson said the focus on marriage isn't meant to disparage those who don't marry, be it because they can't find a suitable partner, have physical or mental impairments or experience same-sex attraction.
"No one is predestined to receive less than all that the Father has for His children," Christofferson said.
The quorum is a governing body of the church that is modeled after Jesus Christ 's apostles and serves under the church president and his two counselors.
As acceptance for gay marriage has swelled in recent years and same-sex unions have become legal in dozens of states including Utah, the church's stance on homosexuality has softened.
Church leaders helped push through a Utah law this year that bars housing and employment discrimination against gay and transgender individuals while also expanding protections for the rights of religious groups and individuals. LGBT activists have spent years pushing for a statewide non-discrimination law, but couldn't get traction until LDS leaders made a nationwide call for this type of legislation that combined protections for religious liberties.
___
PRESIDENT SKIPS CUSTOMARY OPENING
A few eyebrows were raised when president Monson didn't come out for his customary welcome address, given instead by the faith's third-highest ranking leader, Dieter F. Uchtdorf .
Monson walked in and out of the two sessions on his own, though he had a little stumble as he was reaching his seat at the beginning of the afternoon session that led to gasps in the crowd. He recovered and sat through the session.
When he missed the meeting with Obama, church officials said that decision was to preserve his strength for the conference.
Monson has missed only one other welcoming speech at a conference since he was named president in February 2008. That was at the fall conference in October 2011.
In the Mormon faith, which counts 15 million members worldwide, church presidents are considered living prophets. Monson, the 16th president of a faith founded in 1830, has kept a relatively low profile during his tenure.
___
SUPPORT FOR LEADERS NOT TOTALLY UNANIMOUS
The five people who caused a bit of a stir when they opposed the vote supporting Mormon leaders said in a statement they did it to express their displeasure with how few opportunities they have to express concerns to church leaders.
___
COOKIES AND KISSES
As part of the day's focus on marriage and family, Boyd Packer , president of the quorum, spoke about the joy of romance and love and the importance of a man and woman, and their children being sealed in a Mormon temple for eternity. Packer, who has been married nearly 70 years, acknowledged marriage is challenged and offered the key ingredients to successful marriages: "a cookie and a kiss."
Featured Galleries
Top Stories and In-Depth Investigative Journalism
exclusively on
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

