9 minutes ago
Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe gives his annual State of the Commonwealth address before a joint session of the Virginia House of Delegates and Virginia Senate at the Capitol in Richmond, Va., Wednesday, Jan. 14, 2015. (AP Photo/Steve Helber) | ASSOCIATED PRESS
Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) signed an executive order Friday banning the state from asking about prospective employees' criminal histories at the initial application stage in an effort to boost employment opportunities for individuals with criminal records.
The "ban the box" order removes questions about criminal histories from applications for most state jobs, except for "sensitive" positions or roles where the individual's history pertains directly to the job. The order requires that criminal background checks are only conducted after an applicant has been determined to be otherwise qualified for a specific position and has signed a waiver allowing the release of his or her criminal history.
“In a new Virginia economy, people who make mistakes and pay the price should be welcomed back into society and given the opportunity to succeed," McAuliffe said in a statement. "This Executive Order will remove unnecessary obstacles to economic success for Virginians who deserve a second chance."
The Virginia state Senate passed a "ban the box" bill in February, but the measure died in the state's House of Delegates. McAuliffe later decided to tackle the issue as an executive order. The measure comes one year after the governor expanded voting rights for convicted felons in his state.
The order goes into effect immediately, making Virginia the 15th state to "ban the box" in hopes of easing barriers to employment for the approximately 70 million adults with arrest or conviction records in the United States. Dozens of municipalities have enacted similar policies. As the Washington Post notes, 14 cities in Virginia had already adopted the policy.
Also on HuffPost:
 Share
 Tweet
More:
Conversations
Options
Politics
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Politics
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Politics
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

