56  shares
SHARE
TWEET
SMS
SEND
EMAIL
Rep. Lois Capps, D-Calif., said she’ll retire at the end of this term. (J. Scott Applewhite, AP)
Democratic Rep. Lois Capps said Wednesday that she’ll retire at the end of this term, opening up a California district coveted by both political parties.
In a video announcing her decision, Capps praised her constituents and staff and said it’s time for her to go home to her beloved family and community in the Santa Barbara area.
“It’s been a hard decision to make for I have loved this job,” said Capps, who was a nurse and public health advocate before turning to politics. “Life moves on.”
Capps was first elected in 1998 to a Santa Barbara-based district to succeed her husband, Walter, who died of a heart attack just nine months into his term. She has been targeted for defeat in recent elections and defeated actor Chris Mitchum by about 4 percentage points last year.
Her daughter, Laura Capps, has long been mentioned as a possible successor and recently moved back home to California. Laura Capps is a former speechwriter for Bill Clinton and also worked as communications director for Sen. Edward Kennedy and John Kerry’s presidential campaign.
The race in California’s 24th district would likely be a competitive one and could also attract Santa Barbara Mayor Helene Schneider in the Democratic primary along with Mitchum and state Assemblyman Katcho Achadjian among GOP candidates.
Zach Hunter, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee, said the seat “instantly becomes a more likely pick-up opportunity” for the GOP in 2016 with the congresswoman’s retirement.
The non-partisan Cook Political Report says a Democrat will be “heavily favored” to hold onto the seat in a presidential election year and rates the race as “likely Democratic.”
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi hailed Capps as a champion of protecting public lands, affordable education and health. “Her kindness and courage, leadership and wisdom have been tremendous assets to our caucus and the Congress,” Pelosi said.
Cruz sets high bar for social media activity around presidential announcement.
Stephanie Hannon will help Clinton develop websites, apps and other tools to engage voters in presidential campaign.
2hr
South Carolina’s senators say graphic video showing shooting death of Walter Scott is “deeply troubling.”
Two Massachusetts Democrats say it’s time for new party leadership.
“You take their heads off with a four ten shotgun or a hoe before they bite you,” former Arkansas governor says.
Top 10 OnPolitics
Join 206 other followers
Post to

