Possibly one of the best Deals with Gold week yet.
27th, May. 2015 | Posted In News | By Pramath | Follow This Author @Pramath1605
Microsoft has really stepped its game up regarding digital sales; this week’s smattering of offerings goes to show us just how far we have come, as some of the best games on Xbox are being offered for cheap prices. This week’s Deals with Gold offerings include Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, Alien Isolation, Screamride, and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare.
The discounts are hefty too- we are talking about Advanced Warfare being 33% off for the Xbox One version, Alien: Isolation being 60% off for the Xbox One version, and Modern Warfare available for half off. The full list of games available for cheap this week is:
Xbox One
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare Gold*: 17%
Scream Ride: 33%
Alien Isolation: 60%
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare: 33%
Alien Isolation: 60%
You can pick these games up until June 1, which is plenty of time. If you have an Xbox One, especially, don’t miss this chance to get some of the best games in its library for cheap.
?>
Our Latest Reviews
Our Latest Previews
 


CoD: Advanced Warfare's Supremacy DLC trailer
Wednesday 27 May 2015 4:46 p.m.
Activision and Sledgehammer Games have released details on the next lot of Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare DLC, which will debut on June 2 for the Xbox One and Xbox 360.
Supremacy's four new multiplayer maps will include a revised version of the fan-favourite Highrise from Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2.
Descriptions of the new maps are as follows:
Parliament
Docked on the River Thames, this military cargo ship has a view of the London cityscape. Mixed sight-lines provide opportunities for all styles of play on the medium-sized map and there's a map-based scorestreak that unleashes a barrage of missiles.
Kremlin
Set outside Russia's presidential palace, this medium-sized, three-lane map forces players to navigate the worn-torn buildings of Red Square. Secure elevated positions can give a strategic advantage and there is a minefield that activates mid-match.
Compound
An Atlas training facility hidden away in the Colorado wilderness, this is a small, symmetrical map which funnels high-speed combat through tight corners to the main tower structures.
Skyrise
An Atlas Skyscraper overlooking the Acropolis in Athens, Greece, based on Highrise of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2. Gamers must dominate the power positions in the center of this small-to-medium sized map to control the key navigation points.
Supremacy also includes a new Exo Zombies episode, 'Carrier', in which the four heroes are trapped on an Atlas aircraft carrier. It features advanced new weaponry, enemy Atlas Strike teams, Sentinel support squads and a host of new zombie enemies.
Following the Xbox launch next week, Supremacy will release for PlayStation and PC players at a later date.
Watch the Supremacy trailer.
>
;

