Possibly one of the best Deals with Gold week yet.
27th, May. 2015 | Posted In News | By Pramath | Follow This Author @Pramath1605
Microsoft has really stepped its game up regarding digital sales; this week’s smattering of offerings goes to show us just how far we have come, as some of the best games on Xbox are being offered for cheap prices. This week’s Deals with Gold offerings include Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, Alien Isolation, Screamride, and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare.
The discounts are hefty too- we are talking about Advanced Warfare being 33% off for the Xbox One version, Alien: Isolation being 60% off for the Xbox One version, and Modern Warfare available for half off. The full list of games available for cheap this week is:
Xbox One
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare Gold*: 17%
Scream Ride: 33%
Alien Isolation: 60%
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare: 33%
Alien Isolation: 60%
You can pick these games up until June 1, which is plenty of time. If you have an Xbox One, especially, don’t miss this chance to get some of the best games in its library for cheap.
?>
Our Latest Reviews
Our Latest Previews
 


Which March game are you looking forward to the most?
Bloodborne
Battlefield Hardline
May 26, 2015
News: Activision has released details on the next piece of Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare DLC which will be available on June 2 on Xbox One and Xbox 360.
Call of Duty Advanced Warfare has some new DLC coming and Activision has begun releasing some of the details.  On June 2, the third DLC pack for Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare from Activision and Sledgehammer Games, will be available first on Xbox One and Xbox 360, with other platforms to follow.
From the famed steps of Parliament in London, to the snowy confines of the Kremlin in Moscow, players will experience a diverse landscape of multiplayer mayhem, including the return of one of the most iconic multiplayer maps in Call of Duty history, "Highrise," which first debuted in 2009's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, now transported to the year 2054.
"Set against iconic landmarks, Supremacy takes players across the world in some of our most exciting maps to date. New and exciting vertical routes give players unique ways to dominate the battle through both the exo movement set and the new Exo Grapple ability.  We are also thrilled to reimagine one of the most popular Call of Duty maps ever, Modern Warfare 2's Highrise, with exo and grapple gameplay for fans to enjoy," said Michael Condrey, Co-Founder and Studio Head, Sledgehammer Games.
"This is not only the four new multiplayer maps, but the continuation of the popular Exo Zombies saga. We're huge fans of Bruce Campbell, and to be able to add him to the already great roster of performers in Exo Zombies takes this to a new level," said Glen Schofield, Co-Founder and Studio head, Sledgehammer Games.
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare Supremacy includes four new, action-packed multiplayer maps, all featuring the new Exo Grapple mechanic, which adds a layer of fun and strategy to the experience.
Parliament - Docked on the River Thames, this military cargo ship delivers a view of the London cityscape along with a fast-paced combat experience. Mixed site-lines provide opportunities for all styles of play to dominate this medium-sized map. Players can take control of the map-based scorestreak to unleash a barrage of missiles that annihilate enemies.
Kremlin - Gamers must prepare for intense combat outside Russia's presidential palace in the new map Kremlin, as they navigate the worn-torn buildings of Red Square in this medium-sized, three-lane map. Secure elevated positions to give the team a strategic advantage, or use exoskeleton capabilities to avoid being caught in the minefield that activates mid-match.
Compound - Players take combat preparation to the limit in an Atlas training facility hidden away in the Colorado wilderness, as they'll have to be quick on the trigger in this small, symmetrical map, which funnels high-speed combat through tight corners to the main tower structures.
Skyrise - Players deploy to an Atlas Skyscraper overlooking the Acropolis in Athens, Greece. Based on the fan-favorite, Highrise, from Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 by Infinity Ward, this map brings new exoskeleton mechanics to the classic multiplayer layout. Gamers must dominate the power positions in the center of this small-to-medium sized map to control the key navigation points.
The Exo Zombies saga also continues in the all-new episode, Carrier.  Following the end of the last episode, Infected, Bruce Campbell (Army of Darkness, Burn Notice) steps in and joins the battle-hardened cast of John Malkovich (In the Line of Fire, RED, Burn After Reading), Bill Paxton (Aliens, Titanic, Edge of Tomorrow), Rose McGowan (Planet Terror, Scream), and Jon Bernthal (Fury, The Wolf of Wall Street). In Carrier, the four are trapped on an Atlas aircraft carrier. Carrier features advanced new weaponry, enemy Atlas Strike teams, Sentinel support squads, and a host of new zombie enemies.
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare will be available for $14.99 or you can get it as part of the Call of Duty Advanced Warfare season pass for $50, a savings of $10 over the normal price.  Take a look at the trailer below and tell us what you think.  Will you be purchasing this new Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare DLC?
User Comments

