HISTORICALLY SPEAKING: 150 years after his death, Lincoln remains country's most revered president
Comment
The Bulletin
Posted Apr. 11, 2015 at 1:15 PM
Updated at 7:20 PM
Posted Apr. 11, 2015 at 1:15 PM
Updated at 7:20 PM
There was an auction in Dallas, Texas, on Jan. 24. This wasn’t your typical auction.
The artifacts offered  were items that once belonged to a man named Donald P. Dow, who had a fascination with presidential assassinations. The auction involved the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.
Dow’s son, Greg, owned most of the collection, which he received when his father died five years ago.
To better understand the items and the featured personalities mentioned in today’s column, a cast of names with some information about each one would be meaningful and helpful to readers.
Tad Lincoln: He was Lincoln’s youngest son. His real name was Thomas. Lincoln gave him the nickname because of his “wriggling as a tadpole” when he was an infant. Tad died at 18.
Robert E. Lee: Lee was the commander of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia in the American Civil War from 1862 to 1865.
Dr. Samuel A. Mudd: He was an American physician who was imprisoned for conspiring with John Wilkes Booth in Lincoln’s assassination. He was later pardoned by President Andrew Johnson. The expression, “Your name is Mud,” was associated with the doctor for many decades and has now been discounted because the expression was first recorded in the year 1823, 10 years before the doctor was born.
Clara Harris: She was an American socialite. She and her then-fiance, Maj. Henry Rathbone, were guests of the president and Mrs. Lincoln in the box at Ford’s Theater the night Lincoln was assassinated.
Mary Todd Lincoln: The wife of the 16th president.
John Wilkes Booth: He was the assassin who shot Lincoln on April 14, 1865. General Joseph K. Barnes: Dr. Barnes attended Lincoln’s death bed and oversaw the autopsy on Lincoln’s body.
Boston Corbett: He was the soldier who shot and killed Booth against orders.
Now for the items sold at the auction: A Lincoln letter authorizing a prisoner of war swap involving General Lee’s son from a Union POW camp; a clipping of bed linen from Lincoln’s death bed sold for $6,000; an unpublished photo of Dr. Mudd as well as one of his home; A signed letter by Clara Harris; A struck medal from the lead in the lining of Lincoln’s coffin; An 1861 letter written by Booth to a friend regarding his value as an actor, brought $30,000; Booth’s military arrest warrant was sold for $21,250; a White House Funeral Admittance Card; a letter signed by Mary Lincoln on her personal “mourning stationery;” the lock of hair taken by Surgeon General Joseph K. Barnes shortly after Lincoln was shot by John Wilkes Booth, sold for $25,000; and photos of Lincoln, Booth, and Boston Corbett.
Page 2 of 2 - Other sold items included a pair of opera glasses held by Lincoln on “that night” and written eye witness accounts of the assassination. Prior to the auction, the Dow Collection was considered the nation’s largest private Lincoln collection and it brought bids totaling $803,889, more than twice what had been anticipated.
The variety of artifacts and some of the prices they brought verify the intense interest and attraction the 16th president continues to generate. All national polls regarding Lincoln’s popularity still show him as America’s most revered president.
 
The Bulletin
Posted Apr. 11, 2015 at 1:15 PM
Updated at 7:20 PM
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
The Bulletin | 10 Railroad Place, Norwich, CT 06360

