A
A
A
TAMPA — The Rangers never say die, and now they’re heading home for what they hope will be more seventh heaven.
Once again with their backs against the wall, the Rangers were led by a tremendous group effort from the top line and 36 saves by Henrik Lundqvist to win Game 6 of the Eastern Conference finals Tuesday over the Lightning, 7-3, leveling the series 3-3. They scored an incredible five goals in the third period to break open a 2-1 game and earn another Game 7, Friday at Madison Square Garden, where they are 7-0 all-time in Game 7s.
The Rangers gather around Derick Brassard (second from l.) to celebrate his hat trick as the Blueshirts stay alive and force a deciding Game 7 with the Lightning Friday night at the Garden.
“We know we didn’t have any pressure coming into this game,” said Derick Brassard, who in his 536th career game notched his first hat trick and had two assists. “Every time we’re in that position, this team, we come out and play really well. That’s the way we’ve been playing. Since I’ve been here with the Rangers, every time we’re in an elimination game, that’s the way we played. I don’t know if that’s a good thing or a bad thing, but we’re just gonna go out there at home and try to play our best game.”
Brassard’s five points were one short of the Rangers record for most points in a playoff game set by Mikko Leinonen (six assists) on April 8, 1982 against Philadelphia in Game 2 of the division semifinals.
Previous Next
He recorded the Rangers’ first playoff hat trick since Michael Nylander’s in Game 3 of the first round against Atlanta in 2007, and the first hat trick in an elimination game since Mark Messier did it in Game 6 of the conference finals against the Devils in 1994.
Rick Nash had a power-play goal and three assists, and J.T. Miller, who was moved to the top line in the third period of Game 3, scored his first goal of the playoffs and had three assists. Three Rangers recorded four or more points in a playoff game for the first time in franchise history. Deadline acquisitions Keith Yandle and James Sheppard scored the other Ranger goals.
Tampa Bay finished off the Canadiens at home in six games last round, avoiding a trip back to Montreal. But this time it couldn’t finish the job and now the Lightining heads to New York where the Rangers won a Game 7 just last round against Washington in overtime. The Rangers have won 10 straight elimination games at MSG. The Rangers are now 15-3 in elimination games since the start of the 2012 playoffs, including 4-0 this season. The 15 wins are the most when facing elimination over a four-year period in NHL history.
Brassard said that coach Alain Vigneault met with him and fellow center Derek Stepan Tuesday morning and challenged them to step up with their season once again on the line. “We had a little meeting and he just challenged us to be a little better,” Brassard said. “Since I’ve been playing hockey in junior, every time I get challenged like that I always try to answer, and I was already hard on myself, and that kind of got me more mad this morning.”
J.T. Miller (10), starts the very high-scoring 3rd period - there were seven third-period scores - with a goal.
Marc Staal said “there’s obviously pressure” in an elimination game but tried to explain what Brassard meant by saying the Rangers weren’t feeling pressure.
“When you play a game where you’re gonna lose and go home, there’s no reason to be nervous or tentative because if you don’t play well you’re going home,” Staal said. “You take that mentality of putting your best game out and trying to win one game. I think you can play a little bit more loose that way, when your back’s against the wall, I feel like.”
Now both teams face a win-or-go-home game on Friday, which will be the Rangers’ seventh Game 7 since the start of the 2012 playoffs. Miller, 22, played in his first Game 7 last round but he said he tried to “drink in the experience” from the veterans.
“They’re so calm and there’s not much panic,” he said.
There’s no reason to expect any different Friday, when the Rangers will attempt to make consecutive Stanley Cup Final appearances for the first a since 1932-33. “We wanted a chance,” Vigneault said, “and we got a chance.” 
Comments
RANGERS Video
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

