Comment
By Rick Holmes
Canandaigua, N.Y.
There are two kinds of laws: Those enacted to solve a problem and those enacted to strike a pose.
The “religious liberty” laws in Indiana, Arkansas and other states fall into the second category. But while Republican governors and legislators were posing as defenders of the old-time religion for one audience, another audience was watching from different angle — and they didn’t like what they saw.
The Republicans who pushed the religious liberty bills wanted to frame them as solving a problem. Their social conservative constituents are aggrieved over their apparent inability to stop gay marriage. But other people’s marriages are their own business, the courts and most Americans have concluded, so what’s the problem?
Enter the religiously conflicted wedding cake baker. What happens if a baker who opposes gay marriage is asked to put two grooms on the cake?
There probably aren’t that many business owners who demand the right to refuse service to people whose marriage decisions they disapprove. And one would think that such issues could be resolved quietly — just find a more open-minded caterer. But conservative clergy and their politician allies needed a cause on which to hang their opposition, so they rushed to defend the mostly-hypothetical bakers.
Indiana Gov. Mike Pence seemed caught by surprise when word spread that Indiana had given individuals and businesses permission to discriminate against gay people. It wasn’t just the usual gay rights crowd that was upset: Complaints were coming from corporate bigwigs, including local firms like Eli Lilly and high-tech giants Pence would like to recruit to his state. Even the NCAA, headquartered in Indianapolis, raised objections.
In an embarrassing TV interview, Pence told ABC’s George Stephanopoulos the law was misunderstood but couldn’t identify the problem it was intended to fix. Then he threw the religiously-conflicted baker under the bus, declaring that the law didn’t permit discrimination against gay couples.
What Pence didn’t say was that discriminating against gay people was already legal in Indiana. Sexual orientation isn’t a protected class in the Hoosier State; you can be fired, evicted or refused service for being gay. All the religious liberty law did was offer extra legal protection to those who wanted to discriminate on grounds of religion instead of simple bigotry. There’s some irony here: After years of accusing equal marriage advocates of demanding “special rights,” the Republicans were creating a special right to discriminate, reserved for the sufficiently religious.
As the uproar spread, conservatives protested that the law was innocuous. It wouldn’t hurt anyone. Pence even agreed to amend it so it couldn’t be used to defend discrimination, making it even more meaningless.
Page 2 of 2 - But if the law is a solution in search of a problem, why bother in the first place? The answer is that its backers wanted to strike a pose. They wanted to advertise their opposition to gay rights and the aspirations of gay couples.
Pence, touted as a possible presidential candidate just weeks ago, learned that there’s now a price to be paid for pandering to bigots. In Arkansas, where a similar bill even sparked opposition from mighty Walmart, politicians paid the price as well.
In Indiana, the pushback ended up pushing the state in the opposite direction. The amendments to the bill, signed quietly into law by Pence, for the first time prohibit discrimination against LGBT people in public accommodations.
The controversy exposed a deep split between the GOP’s social conservatives and its corporate backers, who have evolved on gay rights much more quickly than the rural church-goers of Indiana and Arkansas. The boomerang also hit several Republican presidential hopefuls, including Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio, who had been quick to endorse the original bill.
One angle on this that has largely escaped debate is the rationale that converted the act of frosting a wedding cake into a form of religious expression deserving legal protection.
The people who have objected so loudly to “redefining marriage” have done a lot of redefining themselves in recent years. In Citizens United, the Supreme Court redefined writing a check to a political campaign. Now it’s political speech. In the Hobby Lobby case, the court redefined the act of denying employee health insurance coverage for birth control. Now it’s an act of corporate religious expression. In these “religious liberty” laws, states have redefined the act of selling cakes and floral arrangements. Now it’s a religious practice.
I know a lot of people worship money, but I sure wish these conservatives would stop confusing commerce with religion.
Rick Holmes writes for GateHouse Media and the MetroWest Daily News, can be reached at rholmes@wickedlocal.com.
By Rick Holmes
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
Irondequoit Post | Irondequoit, NY 14621

