The Salt Lake Tribune
First Published 1 hour ago    •    Updated 58 minutes ago
(Al Hartmann  |  Tribune file photo)   Judge David Nuffer on Friday rejected the Utah Republican Party's bid to block SB54 from taking effect. The election law will allow candidates to get on a primary ballot without going through a party's caucus-convention system. Party attorneys argued the law violates the party's constitutional rights, but Nuffer said the GOP had failed to make the case for a preliminary injunction.
(Al Hartmann  |  Tribune file photo)   Judge David Nuffer on Friday rejected the Utah Republican Party's bid to block SB54 from taking effect. The election law will allow candidates to get on a primary ballot without going through a party's caucus-convention system. Party attorneys argued the law violates the party's constitutional rights, but Nuffer said the GOP had failed to make the case for a preliminary injunction.
Share This Article
ARTICLE PHOTO GALLERY (8)
A federal judge on Friday refused to block a new Utah law that will change the way candidates are nominated in next year's election.
U.S. District Judge David Nuffer ruled from the bench at the conclusion of a more than five-hour hearing on the Utah Republican Party's quest for a preliminary injunction against SB54.
Nuffer said the GOP had failed to show that the law placed unconstitutional burdens on the party.
SB54 was passed last year by the Republican-controlled Legislature and signed by Republican Gov. Gary Herbert. It will allow candidates to win a party nomination by going through the current caucus-convention system or opt to circumvent that process by collecting voter signatures to go straight on the primary ballot.
TOP JOBS
VIDEOS
The Utah Republican Party argues the law ­— a compromise between the Legislature and a ballot-initiative group called Count My Vote ­— would unfairly and unconstitutionally strip the party of its right to pick nominees how it chooses.
Supporters of the law, including the governor, say it could help involve more Utah voters in the nominating process and, perhaps, result in candidates that are more in line with mainstream politics.
 
 
 
POPULAR NEWS

