Email
Print
Callaspo's RBI single 0:41
5/20/15: Alberto Callaspo lines a single to center field, driving in Andrelton Simmons to tie the game at one in the bottom of the 3rd
By Mark Bowman / MLB.com | @mlbbowman |
+
0 COMMENTS
LOS ANGELES -- Once Alberto Callaspo reversed his decision by agreeing to be traded to the Dodgers, the Braves took advantage of an opportunity to acquire a high-upside reliever in exchange for four players who did not fit into their current or future plans.
If Major League Baseball provides approval after reviewing the trade on Wednesday morning, the Braves will receive right-handed reliever Chris Withrow and veteran third baseman Juan Uribe in exchange for Callaspo, Eric Stults , Ian Thomas and Juan Jaime.
The Braves and Dodgers have not commented on this trade. But a Major League source confirmed the proposed components.
Callaspo initially exercised his right to veto this trade that was agreed upon on Monday. But after a having a change of heart, he provided his approval and was removed from Atlanta's lineup shortly before the start of Tuesday's game, which the Dodgers won 8-0 .
Withrow has been likened to former Braves reliever Jordan Walden and described as a power arm who could be an integral part of Atlanta's bullpen next year. The 26-year-old underwent Tommy John surgery last summer and had a herniated disc in his back repaired last winter. There is a chance he could begin pitching for Triple-A Gwinnett near the latter part of this season.
The Braves have coveted power pitchers like Withrow, who posted a 2.73 ERA and totaled 71 strikeouts over the 56 innings he completed for Los Angeles during the 2013 and '14 seasons. The right-hander was selected in the first round of the 2007 First-Year Player Draft. He transitioned to a reliever in 2012.
Along with Withrow, the Braves would receive Uribe, who became expendable because the Dodgers did not want to continue paying his $6.5 million salary to serve as a backup. The 36-year-old veteran will likely share now the third-base position with Chris Johnson , who is expected to return from the disabled list this week.
Uribe has batted .247 with a .596 OPS through his first 29 games this season for the Dodgers. But the skilled defender batted .311 with nine homers and a .777 OPS in 103 games last year. Many Braves fans recognize him as the man who hit the decisive home run off former Atlanta reliever David Carpenter in the 2013 National League Division Series.
Callaspo was viewed as a potentially valuable utility man when he signed a one-year, $3 million deal with the Braves in December. But he has fallen out of favor as he has recorded just seven hits in his past 53 at-bats and has seen his batting average dip to .203. If they had not found a potential suitor, the Braves were likely going to designate him for assignment in the near future.
While Stults was recently removed from Atlanta's rotation, he could provide the Dodgers some assistance as they attempt to mend their injury-depleted rotation. The 35-year-old southpaw began his career in the Dodgers organization and had some occasional success while pitching in the NL West for the Padres the past three seasons.
Thomas was likely going to be the odd man out when the Braves needed to create a roster spot for Johnson later this week. The left-handed reliever, who was signed out of an independent league in 2012, has produced a 3.94 ERA in 21 Major League appearances.
Jaime has proven to be a power reliever who has struggled with his control throughout his professional career. He began this season in Atlanta's bullpen, but was recently demoted to Double-A Mississippi.
Mark Bowman is a reporter for MLB.com. This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

