Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
The measure faces a fight in the state House.
Post to Facebook
Death penalty repeal OK'd in Delaware Senate The measure faces a fight in the state House. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1aoYC3P
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Death penalty repeal OK'd in Delaware Senate
Jon Offredo, The (Wilmington, Del.) News Journal 9:49 p.m. EDT April 2, 2015
The Vaughn Correctional Center near Smyrna, where the state’s death row is housed, is shown in 2010. The state Senate on Thursday voted to end the death penalty. Under the legislation, those currently on death row would still face execution by lethal injection.
(Photo: FRED COMEGYS/THE NEWS JOURNAL)
The Senate voted 11-9 on Thursday in favor of repeal.
The legislation, sponsored by Democratic Sen. Karen Peterson, includes an exemption for the 15 inmates currently sitting on Delaware's death row, who would still face execution by lethal injection.
The measure has support from clergy and a finely tuned political effort partly organized by Erik Raser Schramm, a Democratic operative and former top aide to Delaware House Democrats. A coalition supporting Peterson's bill includes the American Civil Liberties Union of Delaware, the Delaware Center for Justice, the NAACP and the League of Women Voters.
Gov. Jack Markell has yet to weigh in. A spokeswoman for Markell said in an email Thursday that the governor is following the debate, but would not take a position.
Thursday afternoon, Peterson said she wished Markell would take a stand on the matter like former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley did when that state repealed its death penalty.
"We tried to encourage our governor to do the same ... but he's not comfortable with that for some apparent reason," Peterson said.
The measure mirrors legislation that passed the Senate 11-10 in March 2013 but failed to gain enough support in the Democratic-controlled House Judiciary Committee, which blocked its progress. The bill will head back to that committee this year.
Delaware last executed an inmate in April 2012, when 28-year-old Shannon Johnson was put to death by lethal injection.
Sen. Karen Peterson, a Stanton Democrat, is sponsoring this year’s death penalty repeal legislation. The Senate approved the plan Thursday.
 (Photo: KYLE GRANTHAM/THE NEWS JOURNAL)
Police groups strongly oppose repeal and will likely step up opposition in the House, where they have an ally in powerful Speaker Pete Schwartzkopf, a Rehoboth Democrat and retired state trooper. Schwartzkopf has said he will not vote for repeal without amendments allowing the execution of those who kill police  or corrections officers.
On Thursday, Peterson's legislation survived attempts on the Senate floor to undo the bill and add more crimes that would be eligible for the death penalty.
Republican Sen. David Lawson, a retired  state trooper, said Delaware needs to keep its death penalty, which he said acts as a crime deterrent.
"We have vicious, vicious people out there," he said. "I've seen the worst at their worst."
Republican Sen. Colin Bonini introduced an amendment that would have added murder by terrorism to the list of crimes eligible for the death penalty. He said that he is as pro-life as one can be, but there are exceptional situations where the death penalty is needed. Terrorism is one of them, he said.
"We should execute them," Bonini said. "And I don't say that lightly."
Delaware is one of 32 states that employs capital punishment. Advocates for the death penalty have long argued that it is a fair penalty for the most heinous of prisoners and deters crime, but opponents say execution violates human rights, is expensive, encourages a cycle of violence and is used disproportionately against minorities and the poor.
Peterson said during Senate testimony that she understands the visceral and primal reaction to enact revenge on people who have committed heinous crimes. But an eye-for-an-eye approach is not what the state should be involved in.
"That makes us no better than the gun-toting thugs in Wilmington," she said.
USA NOW
Apr 02, 2015

