Mobile broadband is growing rapidly‚ reaching nearly half of the global market this year‚ a twelve-fold increase in just eight years.
By working on a proposal to CITES to legalise trade in rhino horn, South Africa could actually be fuelling rhino poaching.
UNCHANGED0.00%
All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by  Profile Data
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.
Wed May 27 07:00:06 SAST 2015
©The Daily Telegraph | 2015-05-27 00:20:08.0
$40m PINS: Taylor Swift is the 64th most powerful woman in the world, says Forbes
Image by: GETTY IMAGES
Singer and songwriter Taylor Swift, 25, has been named one of the most powerful women in the world with her debut inclusion in Forbes magazine's Power Women List this year.
Save & Share
The Shake It Off singer is the youngest person on the list.
Swift has cemented herself as one of the world's bestselling and most popular stars since her album, 1989, came out in October.
Forbes estimates her earnings last year to be in the region of $64-million. There were rumours this year that her legs were insured for $40-million.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel topped the power list for the fifth time in a row.
SHARE YOUR OPINION
If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article,                 please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.
© 2015 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel. AP FILE PHOTO
For the fifth consecutive year, German Chancellor Angela Merkel has been named as the world’s most powerful woman by Forbes magazine as revealed by its annual list of World’s 100 Most Powerful Women which was released Tuesday.
This also marked the 10th time that Merkel, who became the first female German chancellor in 2005, made it to the the magazine’s ranking.
Clinton, who has appeared in Forbes’ annual list since 2004, jumped four spots from her 2014 ranking.
American businesswoman Melinda Gates, wife of Bill Gates and co-founder of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, remained the world’s third most powerful woman.
American economist Janet Yellen clinched the fourth spot, two notches down from her debut ranking last year. Yellen was the first female chair of the Federal Reserve System’s board of governors.
Other personalities in the top 10 are General Motors CEO Mary Barra, International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki, and US First Lady Michelle Obama.
“This year’s Power Women control nearly $1 trillion in annual revenues. There are 15 billionaires with a total net worth in excess of $73.3 billion,” said Forbes in a statement.
Nineteen personalities made their debut on the list of powerful women this year, including American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift.
Media magnate Oprah Winfrey emerged as the world’s most powerful billionaire at no. 12, four spots up from her ranking in 2014, while American superstar Beyonce Knowles secured the 21st spot.
This year’s ranking represents women from eight categories, namely politics, technology, business, finance, media, entertainment, philanthropy, and billionaires—all of which were ranked by Forbes based on money, media presence, impact, and spheres of influence. IDL
Get Inquirer updates while on the go, add us on these apps:
Tags:
Bangladesh ferry owner faces charges in sinking
Bangladesh ferry owner faces charges in sinking
Bangladesh ferry owner faces charges in sinking
Bangladesh ferry owner faces charges in sinking
Bangladesh ferry owner faces charges in sinking
Bangladesh ferry owner faces charges in sinking
Bangladesh ferry owner faces charges in sinking
Complete stories on our Digital Edition newsstand for tablets, netbooks and mobile phones; 14-issue free trial. About to step out? Get breaking alerts on your mobile.phone. Text ON INQ BREAKING to 4467, for Globe, Smart and Sun subscribers in the Philippines.
Disclaimer: The comments uploaded on this site do not necessarily represent or reflect the views of management and owner of INQUIRER.net. We reserve the right to exclude comments that we deem to be inconsistent with our editorial standards.
To subscribe to the Philippine Daily Inquirer newspaper in the Philippines, call +63 2 896-6000 for Metro Manila and Metro Cebu or email your subscription request here.
Factual errors? Contact the Philippine Daily Inquirer's day desk. Believe this article violates journalistic ethics? Contact the Inquirer's Reader's Advocate. Or write The Readers' Advocate:
c/o Philippine Daily Inquirer Chino Roces Avenue corner Yague and Mascardo Streets, Makati City,Metro Manila, Philippines Or fax nos. +63 2 8974793 to 94
advertisement
latest videos

