Mobile broadband is growing rapidly‚ reaching nearly half of the global market this year‚ a twelve-fold increase in just eight years.
By working on a proposal to CITES to legalise trade in rhino horn, South Africa could actually be fuelling rhino poaching.
UNCHANGED0.00%
All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by  Profile Data
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.
Wed May 27 07:00:06 SAST 2015
©The Daily Telegraph | 2015-05-27 00:20:08.0
$40m PINS: Taylor Swift is the 64th most powerful woman in the world, says Forbes
Image by: GETTY IMAGES
Singer and songwriter Taylor Swift, 25, has been named one of the most powerful women in the world with her debut inclusion in Forbes magazine's Power Women List this year.
Save & Share
The Shake It Off singer is the youngest person on the list.
Swift has cemented herself as one of the world's bestselling and most popular stars since her album, 1989, came out in October.
Forbes estimates her earnings last year to be in the region of $64-million. There were rumours this year that her legs were insured for $40-million.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel topped the power list for the fifth time in a row.
SHARE YOUR OPINION
If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article,                 please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.
© 2015 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.


Taylor Swift Lands on Forbes’s ‘Most Powerful Women’ List!
Contributed by admin on May 26, 2015 at 8:04 pm
Well, it seems like ever since Tay Tay has ditched her fairytale stories and became more “herself” she’s boomed like no other.
The top spot was given to German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
At number two, Hillary Clinton is closing in on Angela Merkel. In addition to her cable network, OWN, she holds a stake in successful syndicated programs including “Dr. Phil, ” and through her Harpo Films helped produce the critically acclaimed “Selma”.
The 19 newcomers also include Bank of England deputy governor Nemat Shafik (66) and the new Guardian editor-in-chief Katharine Viner (80).
Forbes cites the success of Swift’s first venture into pop, 1989, as one of the reasons for her rise to the list. “In 2015 Clinton is No. 2, just a breath and a ballot away from the Most Powerful Woman crown”.
Number Eight… Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg. She is also, for the fourth year running, the highest placed woman in technology.
In total, seven Silicon Valley executives made it into the top 25.
Vogue’s Anna Wintour, 65, came in at number 28, followed by comedian and TV host Ellen DeGeneres, 57, at number 50 and actress Angelina Jolie, 39, at number 54. Women currently hold 23 (4.6 per cent) of CEO positions at S&P 500 companies, Forbes added. The only African-American woman on the Forbes “400 Richest Americans” list, she has donated hundreds of millions of dollars throughout the years to education.
Other female heads of state on the list included Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff (7), South Korean President Park Geun-hye (11, ) Argentinian President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner (16) and Polish Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, making her debut in the 40th spot.
Winfrey is one of 15 billionaires on the list this year, with a cumulative net worth of nearly $75 million. The power women control $1 trillion in annual revenues.
Hillary Clinton, former secretary of state and United States presidential candidate.
Oprah Winfrey, Beyonce And Angelina Jolie Among Forbes’ World’s
Recent Posts
Berdych rolls in French opener May 26, 2015
Copyright © 2015 Rapid News Network. All Rights Reserved.

