Mobile broadband is growing rapidly‚ reaching nearly half of the global market this year‚ a twelve-fold increase in just eight years.
By working on a proposal to CITES to legalise trade in rhino horn, South Africa could actually be fuelling rhino poaching.
UNCHANGED0.00%
All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by  Profile Data
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.
Wed May 27 07:00:06 SAST 2015
©The Daily Telegraph | 2015-05-27 00:20:08.0
$40m PINS: Taylor Swift is the 64th most powerful woman in the world, says Forbes
Image by: GETTY IMAGES
Singer and songwriter Taylor Swift, 25, has been named one of the most powerful women in the world with her debut inclusion in Forbes magazine's Power Women List this year.
Save & Share
The Shake It Off singer is the youngest person on the list.
Swift has cemented herself as one of the world's bestselling and most popular stars since her album, 1989, came out in October.
Forbes estimates her earnings last year to be in the region of $64-million. There were rumours this year that her legs were insured for $40-million.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel topped the power list for the fifth time in a row.
SHARE YOUR OPINION
If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article,                 please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.
© 2015 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.


Beyonce, Taylor and more named 2015's Most Powerful Women
Former Prime Minister Helen Clark (pictured here with Hillary Clinton) has been ranked as the 23rd most powerful woman in the world according to Forbes' annual list. She is currently working with the United Nations as the Administrator for their Development Programme.
AEST 01:10, WED MAY 27 2015
New Zealand's own former Prime Minister, Helen Clark, has been named in Forbes' 100 Most Powerful Women list for 2015.
The annual list includes several other celebrities, entrepreneurs, CEOs and politicians including Michelle Obama, Beyonce, Oprah Winfrey and Facebook's Sheryl Sandberg. This year, Forbes chose Angela Merkel (the Chancellor of Germany) as the number one most powerful woman in the world, closely followed by US Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. 
Ms Clark was ranked in the top 25, putting her ahead of influential celebrities such as Ellen DeGeneres and Angelina Jolie.
A newcomer on the list this year was pop powerhouse Taylor Swift, who at 25 years old is the youngest person to ever be included! She came in at number 64.
Click through to see the other notable names and stars on this year's list of 100 Most Powerful Women.

