Mobile broadband is growing rapidly‚ reaching nearly half of the global market this year‚ a twelve-fold increase in just eight years.
By working on a proposal to CITES to legalise trade in rhino horn, South Africa could actually be fuelling rhino poaching.
UNCHANGED0.00%
All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by  Profile Data
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.
Wed May 27 07:00:06 SAST 2015
©The Daily Telegraph | 2015-05-27 00:20:08.0
$40m PINS: Taylor Swift is the 64th most powerful woman in the world, says Forbes
Image by: GETTY IMAGES
Singer and songwriter Taylor Swift, 25, has been named one of the most powerful women in the world with her debut inclusion in Forbes magazine's Power Women List this year.
Save & Share
The Shake It Off singer is the youngest person on the list.
Swift has cemented herself as one of the world's bestselling and most popular stars since her album, 1989, came out in October.
Forbes estimates her earnings last year to be in the region of $64-million. There were rumours this year that her legs were insured for $40-million.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel topped the power list for the fifth time in a row.
SHARE YOUR OPINION
If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article,                 please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.
© 2015 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.


Wednesday 27 May 2015
She's the youngest person to ever be named in Forbes “Powerful Women” list.
Another day, another record set by Taylor Swift.
The 25-year-old singer has become the youngest woman to be included on the Forbes list of The World's 100 Most Powerful Women.
And it’s not just her ability to rope in 18 A-listers into her “Bad Blood” music video for which she’s receiving accolades for.
Estimating her earnings to be somewhere around the $81 million mark, the yearly roundup has her at number 64 because: "The bona fide, cross-genre global megastar has not only broken record sales and captivated the world with her fantastically honest music, but she has proven herself as an impressive businesswoman."
And she’s in incredible company.
The list released on Tuesday gave German Chancellor Angela Merkel number one spot, followed by Hilary Clinton. Michelle Obama rounded out the 10th spot.
As for Taylor’s fellow peers in the entertainment biz, these included Oprah Winfrey at 12, Beyonce at 21 and Angelina Jolie at number 54.
RELATED
Get The Latest News
See our most talked-about features and catch up on the week's biggest stories, delivered straight to your inbox.
Your Name
Your Email
Yes, I'd like to receive the Beauty Generation newsletter
SIGN UP

