Google's annual developer conference I/O kicks off on Thursday, just week's ahead of Apple's WWDC, and the firm is expected to have plenty of announcements up its sleeve.
Last year's Google I/O saw the firm unveil Android L (now known Android 5.0 Lollipop), as well as spill details about Google Auto, Android TV and its Android Wear platform.
We've rounded up the five things you can likely expect from Google's 2015 I/O keynote. 
Android M
Google typically unmasks the next-gen version of Android at its yearly I/O conference, and this year is expected to mark the arrival of Android M.
Tipped to arrive as Android 5.2, and no doubt named after some kind of food-stuff beginning with M, and likely will bring plenty of new features with it. Few details have leaked ahead of the launch, but a Buzzfeed report claims that Android M will arrive with native fingerprint authentication built-in.
Other speculation hints at improved battery management tools, reworked notifications and an updated Smart Lock feature.
Google Glass 2.0
Google hasn't covered up the the fact that it's working on a second version of its Google Glass wearable, which last year was discontinued.
Google Glass 2.0 is rumoured to make its debut at this year's I/O, and is set to bring with it a new design.  Speculation also suggests that Glass 2.0 will use Intel chips  in place of the ARM-based Omap processors used in the previous Glass wearable.
Brillo
No, Google isn't going to take the wraps off a new cleaning product, but it is expected to announce new software designed for the Internet of Things, codenamed Brillo.  
The software will reportedly will be on Android, and will have its sights set on low-powered devices with as little as 32MB or 64MB RAM, such as lightbulbs, thermostats and smart locks. 
Project Tango
With Google I/O focusing on developers, the firm likely will have something to say about Project Tango at this year's conference.
We could hear a firm release date for the device, that boasts multiple cameras and motion sensors for 3D mapping the world around it, after Google earlier announced that its Project Tango tablet would become available in 2015.
Self-driving cars
Google's self-driving cars could make an appearance at I/O this year, after the firm announced 'road ready' driverless vehicles back in December.
Get the latest news direct to your inbox with V3 newsletters.
Register for free to enjoy V3 in full
Quick registration grants you unlimited access to our full site and premium subscriber content including:
Expert technology news and reviews
Exclusive interviews and in-depth analysis
Full access to every issue of the V3 Tablet App (RRP £18.99)
Fully searchable archive back to 1996
Search
Friend's email address
To send to more than one email address, simply separate each address with a comma.
Your email address

