Republicans give Robert Menendez a pass
Embattled New Jersey Democrat seems like a tempting target, but Republicans are holding their fire.
Faced with a sprawling criminal indictment for corruption, and fighting for his political life, Sen. Robert Menendez should be a tempting target for Republicans. But rather than demanding Menendez resign, the GOP has stayed eerily quiet.
Republicans like Gov. Chris Christie say Menendez deserves his day in court. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has been mum. And the Republican National Committee is focused on other targets — namely Hillary Clinton.
Story Continued Below
The hands-off approach — while not a defense of the New Jersey senator — underscores a private GOP calculation: If Menendez lingers in office with the indictment hanging over his head, the worse it looks for Democrats.
“From our perspective, the longer he stays in the seat, the better off we’ll be,” said one top Republican who asked not to be named to discuss the political calculation candidly.
Several senior Republican officials are hoping that the embattled senior senator holds on and tarnishes the Democratic party in the process. Moreover, a lengthy court battle could drag into election season and produce embarrassing revelations about Senate Democrats’ big-spending super PAC, the Obama administration and Democratic leaders.
Staying quiet, however, also has its costs for Republicans. If Menendez is pressured to resign and ultimately steps aside, Christie would be able to name an interim replacement, which could improve Republican chances of picking up the seat in an eventual special election. But without pressure from the GOP, Democrats are less likely to push their colleague to quit.
That gives Menendez some political cover to continue battling the Justice Department and stay in office through his term, which expires in January 2019.
Asked why the party has been quiet on Menendez, RNC spokesman Sean Spicer said: “We have been really focused on the Hillary rollout.”
McConnell believes the Senate Democratic Caucus should decide Menendez’s fate, according to his spokesman.
An official with the National Republican Senatorial Committee added: “Menendez is not our problem. That’s up to the Democrat leadership and caucus to decide what to do about him.”
In the aftermath of last week’s indictment, Menendez has staunchly proclaimed his innocence, saying he would be vindicated in court and vowing to stay in his seat. He did agree, however, to step down as ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee as the court proceedings play out.
“This is not how my career is going to end,” he said at a Newark news conference last week.
And he was bolstered by a new Rutgers-Eagleton poll Tuesday that said 58 percent of New Jersey residents believe Menendez should stay in office unless he is convicted, compared to just 34 percent who say he should resign immediately. The New Jersey senator’s approval rating stands at a meager 34 percent.
Federal prosecutors also allege that the senator sought to play matchmaker between Melgen and other Democratic senators.
Moreover, as part of the alleged bribery, the indictment points to $700,000 in donations Melgen made to Senate Majority PAC, a super PAC run by Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid’s top political advisers. The donations were earmarked to help Menendez’s 2012 reelection campaign.
The FBI and Justice Department also interviewed Reid as part of their investigation, given the Democratic leader’s role in facilitating a 2012 meeting between then-Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and Menendez over a Medicare dispute Melgen was closely monitoring. Reid, for his part, has not been accused of any wrongdoing in the Menendez indictment.
The trial is tentatively scheduled to begin July 13, but it could easily be delayed. And if Menendez is still a senator when court proceedings get underway, that will bring far more media attention. That’s not the kind of spotlight Democrats want.
Assuming Menendez doesn’t cut a deal with Justice and the case goes to trial, more damaging evidence could come to light, Republicans privately hope.
After last week’s indictment, the NRSC demanded that Democrats return donations Menendez’s political action committee has made to them over the years, and two Democratic senators — Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Michael Bennet of Colorado — gave back the money. Other Democrats, like former Rep. Joe Sestak, who is running for Senate in Pennsylvania, have not. Washington Sen. Patty Murray, a member of Democratic leadership who is running for reelection next year, has not said whether she’s returned Menendez’s PAC contributions.
But GOP calls for Menendez to resign have been few and far between.
“Everybody deserves the presumption of innocence, and there’s no reason for me or anybody else to get out ahead of themselves,” Christie said last week.
The governor’s office declined to comment further Tuesday. The New Jersey Republican Party said Menendez should resign if the allegations are “proven true.”
“These reports of wrongdoing are deeply troubling and, if proven true by federal investigators and prosecutors, Sen. Menendez will have lost the confidence and faith of the hardworking people he serves and should resign,” Nicole Sizemore, a spokeswoman for the state party, wrote in an email.
If Menendez were to resign, Christie would have a real opportunity to help Republicans add another seat to their 54-46 Senate majority. Christie would be responsible for naming an interim replacement, but the timing would be important. A resignation 30 days before the state’s June 2 primary date would mean a special election could be held this year, but any resignation after that date means the special election could slip to next year. Ultimately, the decision would lie with Christie, who has discretion over scheduling a special election due to conflicting statutes in New Jersey law, according to the Congressional Research Service.
The timing of Menendez’s reelection also underscores how different circumstances were the last time a sitting senator was indicted on corruption charges. The late Ted Stevens, an Alaska Republican, was indicted in 2008 and later convicted in the heat of the election season, eventually losing his seat to Democrat Mark Begich.
After the indictment, several top Republicans — including McConnell and the GOP’s presidential candidate, John McCain — called on Stevens to resign. Democrats, believing they could beat a battered Stevens in that fall’s elections, largely avoided calling on Stevens to step aside, but they urged vulnerable GOP senators to return donations from Stevens. (The Stevens conviction was later dismissed after the Justice Department acknowledged prosecutorial misconduct in the case.)
Outside the party establishment, the conservative group American Commitment has called for Menendez’s resignation and launched a website last week called ByeBob.com that has 3,350 signatories asking him to step down. But no major party groups have joined in, a fact that American Commitment President Phil Kerpen attributes to the timing of a nuclear deal with Iran of which Menendez has been a sharp critic of the White House along with many Republicans.
Some Republicans also sympathize with Menendez, arguing he’s been the victim of a political vendetta from the administration.
It wasn’t lost on Kerpen that his group is more aligned with liberal editorial pages than with top officials of the Republican Party on this issue. “You have The New York Times calling for him to step down, and no significant Republicans are doing that,” he said.
Authors:

