27 May 2015
Police reportedly shot out street lights to cover their movements
Four gunmen have been killed after trying to storm a guesthouse in a diplomatic area of the Afghan capital, Kabul, police say.
The attack resulted in a gun battle lasting several hours in the Wazir Akbar Khan district, home to several embassies and official buildings.
The Taliban said it had carried out the attack.
The assailants were armed with a rocket propelled grenade launcher and other weapons, the interior ministry said.
No civilian or military casualties were reported.
"Four attackers who had one RPG launcher, three AK-47s and one grenade launcher were killed in Wazir Akbar Khan," deputy interior minister Mohammad Ayoub Salangi said on Twitter.
As the battle progressed, police said they had surrounded the attackers
Afghanistan's interior ministry told the BBC that the target was the former Heetal guesthouse, that was attacked by the Taliban in December 2009 and is now officially known as the Rabbani Guesthouse.
It is popular with foreigners and is owned by the Rabbani family, including Afghanistan's current Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani, and its former president, Burhanuddin Rabbani.
Earlier, Kabul police spokesman Ebadullah Karimi said the attackers had taken position among the trees behind the guesthouse.
The hotel manager told AFP news agency that all guests were in safe rooms and no-one was hurt.
"Heetal is very well fortified. After one or two initial explosions, our guards started firing on attackers who were unable to get inside," he said.
The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder, in Kabul, said he had heard " sustained explosions, small arms fire and also the sound of grenades ".
The attack began shortly before 23:00 (18:30 GMT). Police were later seen smashing street lights to cover their movements in the dark, the Associated Press reported.
Police were said to have smashed street lights to cover their movements
Reports by witnesses on social media said that the fighting was close to the Tajik embassy and Street 15 in the Wazir Akbar Khan district.
While the area is popular with foreign workers and also houses government employees, it has been subject to several high-profile attacks in recent years, most notably in the Taverna du Liban restaurant last year .
In recent weeks, a new wave of attacks by the Taliban has targeted foreigners in Kabul.
Two weeks ago, 14 people were killed as they waited to attend a concert in a guesthouse in Kabul.
With the Taliban's traditional summer offensive under way, the UN says the number of civilians killed and injured across Afghanistan stands at nearly 3,000 over the first four months of the year, up 16% on the same period last year.
Are you in Kabul? Have you been affected by recent events? You can email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk .
If you would be happy to speak further to a BBC journalist, please include a contact telephone number when emailing us your details.
Or comment here:
Town & Country
Comments (Required field)
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.


UPDATE 4-Afghan insurgents launch late-night attack on Kabul guesthouse
(Updates with fresh detail)
By Mirwais Harooni and Jessica Donati
KABUL May 26 (Reuters) - Heavily armed insurgents stormed a guesthouse in the diplomatic quarter of Kabul late on Tuesday night and were still resisting Afghan security forces more than five hours after the assault began.
The attack targeted a guesthouse owned by a prominent Afghan political family, Kabul's police chief said, declining to provide details on the occupants.
"There hasn't been a face-to-face confrontation yet," Abdul Rahman Rahimi said. "We have cleared several areas and only a check post at the front of the compound is left."
There was no immediate word on casualties, but explosions and gunfire continued to be heard after 4 a.m. (2330 GMT), more than five hours after the attack started.
Afghan and Western security sources said the compound was known to be used by foreigners, but it was unclear if any were in the guesthouse at the time.
It was unclear who was responsible for the attack. Representatives of the Taliban, which has been waging an Islamist insurgency in Afghanistan since being toppled by a U.S.-led coalition in 2001, could not immediately be reached for comment.
Teams of elite Afghan security forces were deployed to the guesthouse area, an upscale part of the capital where many embassies and government buildings are located.
Hours after the attack began, it was still unclear how many insurgents were involved and police vehicles continued to block roads in the diplomatic quarter to traffic.
Investigative teams remained on standby at checkpoints, waiting to be given the all clear to access the site.
Over a dozen blasts were counted in the first hour of the attack, while bursts of gunfire and multiple explosions continued into the morning.
Kabul's police chief said the guesthouse was owned by the Rabbani family, and further information would be shared once the area was secure. The late Burhanuddin Rabbani served as president of Afghanistan in the 1990s and his son, Salahuddin, is the current foreign minister.
Several of the more powerful blasts heard could have been caused by suicide bombers detonating their vests, an Afghan security source said, but hours after the attack started it was unclear how many insurgents were involved.
The Afghan capital has been hit by a series of high-profile attacks on foreigners and government targets over the past two weeks.
The Taliban targeted the Park Palace hotel on May 13, killing more than a dozen people. The largest number of casualties were Afghan civilians, but an American, a British-Afghan national, four Indians, an Italian and a Kazakh were also among the dead.
NATO's 13-year combat mission officially ended in December and the small contingent that remains in the country is mostly focused on training Afghan security forces.
Afghan civilians, however, are bearing the brunt of the bloody conflict that has escalated around the country as foreign troops have withdrawn.
Following the deadly hotel attack two weeks ago, an EU vehicle was bombed a few days later, near Kabul's airport, in a blast that killed a British security contractor and at least two Afghan civilians.
Last week, at least five Afghans were killed and dozens more wounded by a car bomb that detonated in the parking lot of the Afghan Ministry of Justice.   (Writing by Jessica Donati; Editing by Mark Heinrich, G Crosse and Edmund Klamann)
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

