27 May 2015
Police reportedly shot out street lights to cover their movements
Four gunmen have been killed after trying to storm a guesthouse in a diplomatic area of the Afghan capital, Kabul, police say.
The attack resulted in a gun battle lasting several hours in the Wazir Akbar Khan district, home to several embassies and official buildings.
The Taliban said it had carried out the attack.
The assailants were armed with a rocket propelled grenade launcher and other weapons, the interior ministry said.
No civilian or military casualties were reported.
"Four attackers who had one RPG launcher, three AK-47s and one grenade launcher were killed in Wazir Akbar Khan," deputy interior minister Mohammad Ayoub Salangi said on Twitter.
As the battle progressed, police said they had surrounded the attackers
Afghanistan's interior ministry told the BBC that the target was the former Heetal guesthouse, that was attacked by the Taliban in December 2009 and is now officially known as the Rabbani Guesthouse.
It is popular with foreigners and is owned by the Rabbani family, including Afghanistan's current Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani, and its former president, Burhanuddin Rabbani.
Earlier, Kabul police spokesman Ebadullah Karimi said the attackers had taken position among the trees behind the guesthouse.
The hotel manager told AFP news agency that all guests were in safe rooms and no-one was hurt.
"Heetal is very well fortified. After one or two initial explosions, our guards started firing on attackers who were unable to get inside," he said.
The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder, in Kabul, said he had heard " sustained explosions, small arms fire and also the sound of grenades ".
The attack began shortly before 23:00 (18:30 GMT). Police were later seen smashing street lights to cover their movements in the dark, the Associated Press reported.
Police were said to have smashed street lights to cover their movements
Reports by witnesses on social media said that the fighting was close to the Tajik embassy and Street 15 in the Wazir Akbar Khan district.
While the area is popular with foreign workers and also houses government employees, it has been subject to several high-profile attacks in recent years, most notably in the Taverna du Liban restaurant last year .
In recent weeks, a new wave of attacks by the Taliban has targeted foreigners in Kabul.
Two weeks ago, 14 people were killed as they waited to attend a concert in a guesthouse in Kabul.
With the Taliban's traditional summer offensive under way, the UN says the number of civilians killed and injured across Afghanistan stands at nearly 3,000 over the first four months of the year, up 16% on the same period last year.
Are you in Kabul? Have you been affected by recent events? You can email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk .
If you would be happy to speak further to a BBC journalist, please include a contact telephone number when emailing us your details.
Or comment here:
Town & Country
Comments (Required field)
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.


Explosions, gunfire in central Kabul, Afghanistan; hotel could be target
By Masoud Popalzai, CNN
(CNN)
The sound of explosions and gunfire shook Kabul on Tuesday in what a police source described as an attack on a hotel owned by the son of Afghanistan's former President.
Fighting between militants and Afghan security forces raged for hours, starting around 11 p.m. and continuing into the early morning.
A police source told CNN the target was the Heetal Plaza Hotel, owned by the son of former Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani. But the hotel's manager said the hotel was not the target and had not been breached.
The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack. Zabiullah Mujahid, a spokesman for the group, said on Twitter that the hotel was targeted because foreign invaders were staying in it.
More from Asia
Confirm

