Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
EDITORIAL: Menendez and Mengel: What are friends for?
If you've got troubles,I've got 'em too/There isn't anything I wouldn't do for you
Post to Facebook
EDITORIAL: Menendez and Mengel: What are friends for? If you've got troubles,I've got 'em too/There isn't anything I wouldn't do for you Check out this story on app.com: http://on.app.com/1FCRQSu
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
AsburyPark 4:56 p.m. EDT April 8, 2015
U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez has been indicted on corruption charges for allegedly using his office to improperly benefit an eye doctor and political donor.
(Photo: AP)
"You've got a friend in me / If you've got troubles, I've got 'em too / There isn't anything I wouldn't do for you / We stick together and can see it through / Cause you've got a friend in me." — from the movie "Toy Story"
Sen. Bob Menendez is going to need more than song lyrics to get him out of the unethical and possibly criminal jam he finds himself in with regard to his pal Dr. Salomon Melgen of Florida. He is hoping his "friendship" defense will do the trick.
Most people think of a good friend as someone who helps you move and maybe share a six-pack afterward. That's not the kind of buddies the senator and the opthamologist are, however. The rich eye doctor gave Menendez free trips, lavish vacations, dinners, golf outings and political donations, amounting to more than $1 million.
Senate ethics rules state that any gift from a friend over $250 requires approval of the ethics committee. Menendez did not do that in multiple instances. The Senate should eliminate the "friend exception" for gifts altogether. It's an ambiguous term that could apply to almost anyone.
Menendez kept up his end of the friendship with Melgen, to be sure. He weighed in on Melgen's behalf in a Medicare dispute with federal regulators, he intervened in support of Melgen's bid for a multipmillion dollar port security deal in the Dominican Republic. And Menendez personally saw to it that visas were given to three of Melgen's girlfriends. After Menendez's intervention, the denial of a visa application was reversed for one of the women.
Menendez's defense is expected to be, "Hey, friends give friends gifts don't they?" There may well be a couple of monkey wrenches in that defense.
In the first place if the prosecution can prove that exchange of gifts involves some kind of quid pro quo, tit-for-tat deal, you've got a textbook definition of corruption that would be very difficult to wiggle out of.
In the second place, this case is unique in one respect: It is the first political corruption investigation to probe big-money Super PAC donations. Melgen, through his medical company, gave $600,000 to the Senate Majority PAC in 2012 and the PAC spent $582,000 on Menendez's campaign. Menendez defeated Republican Joe Kyrillos to win his second Senate term.
Many supporters of Menendez seem willing to overlook these blatantly unethical and quite possibly crimninal lapses on his part. Their attitude seems to be, "Well, sure Sen. Bob may have broken a few rules and laws, but we don't care because he worked hard to get us Sandy money."
That is precisely how the culture of corruption has been allowed to flourish in New Jersey. We shouldn't be looking the other way while corners are cut, deals are made and friendships turn into the equivalent of a personal-favor-ATM. The very fact that Menendez did little to hide how his friendship with Mengel worked is all the more reason to continue prosecution.
Maybe by the end of the day, he'll have his eyes opened and so will others in Congress who don't fully understand the difference beween friendship and graft.
Read or Share this story: http://on.app.com/1FCRQSu
More Stories

