Contributed by admin on May 26, 2015 at 10:08 pm
“He beats the odds, and he comes to play as hard as he can every single night”. He said it hurt to not be out there with his teammates.
Days earlier, Dellavedova dived for a loose ball but also collected Atlanta sharp-shooter Kyle Korver, resulting in Korver being ruled out of the playoffs with an ankle injury.
But while Horford was the one sent walking to the locker room, it’s Dellavedova who’s creating the most controversial buzz.
Dellavedova said TV replays told the story, that Horford pulled him down.
Horford stopped short of calling Dellavedova dirty.
No, it’s Matthew Dellavedova acting as the guy you’d most like to see on the receiving end of a real, honest-to-goodness Flagrant Two elbow. Delly plays hard; he’s not going to try to hurt anybody.
Over the course of the past three weeks, Dellavedova has evaded official scrutiny for putting a leg lock on Taj Gibson during the Cavs second-round win over Chicago. Korver will miss the rest of the postseason because of a high right ankle sprain suffered on the play.
Not everything is black and white.
Dellavedova a “dirty player”, say United States media.
Matthew Dellavedova’s growing reputation as a dirty player – deserved or not – preceded him Sunday night.
With the Hawks on the brink of elimination, even the radio broadcasters have had enough of Dellavedova’s antics. “Get the menace off the floor!” How would that Cavs player (and Cavs fans) have responded? “Great play Delly!” If anything this will just get him going a little more.
His coming out party came in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference Semifinals against the Chicago Bulls, a game after the Gibson incident, when he led the Cavs with 19 points on 7-of-11 shooting, including 3-of-6 from behind the three-point line. They want to protective their lucrative, short-term livelihood. There are respectable basketball minds on both sides of the issues, and some didn’t like the look of Dellavedova falling into Horford’s legs.
Horford’s flagrant foul 2 in Game 3 will stand, but there will be no additional punishment from the NBA, according to league spokesman Tim Kuck.
In Game 1 against the Hawks he went scoreless, missing six shots, four from 3-point range.
Upon hearing the allegations, LeBron James got mad and defended his teammate.
Dellavedova made it to the NBA with his energetic reckless abandon, and maybe that’s the crux of the issue.
Finding a fearless competitor, even if he does have an irritating penchant for instigation, seems to be just what they need. He just plays hard.
This year certainly ended on a rough note for Korver and Atlanta. “I do not think it was malicious, but he has to learn”. Kelly’s similar to the aggressive guy in your pickup game who isn’t highly skilled, and can rub others the wrong way with overall intensity. In totality, he saw all the varying shades of gray.
Cleveland Cavaliers vs. Atlanta Hawks: Game 3 broadcast diary
Recent Posts
Copyright © 2015 Rapid News Network. All Rights Reserved.

