Twitter, two months after launching its live video streaming app Periscope on iOS, has finally brought the app to the Android platform. The app is similar to its iOS counterpart but comes with minor Android-specific changes. With the move, the company also catches up with rival live-broadcast app, Meerkat .
The major difference between the iOS and Android versions of Periscope is the broadcasting method. While iOS users broadcast a video using the central tab, the Android users can do the same using a floating button at the bottom right, which also goes in line with the Google's Material Design mantra.
The app also includes some Android-specific features. Android users would have more control over the Periscope as they can now control push notifications whenever a followed user broadcasts for the first time, shares a broadcast, or when a user follows them. However, these notification controls will affect all followers, and cannot be tuned for individual followers. Also, the app lets users return to a broadcast via a banner in the notification drawer in case they wander away to another app in between. Periscope also notes that on the Android version, replays are saved without requiring the broadcaster to upload a file - helping save time time and mobile data.
Speaking of the Android launch and the reasons for the delay, the Periscope team said on a blog post, "As a small startup, our initial launch was limited to just iOS, but we've been working really hard to craft an experience that feels special on Android, yet still unmistakably Periscope." Interestingly, this statement was made despite the clout of the Twitter behind the firm, which acquired the startup back in January. Periscope earlier in May also made it possible to sign-up without a Twitter account, allowing users to utilise their phone numbers instead.
Periscope, available to download from Google Play , weighs 8.1MB and is compatible with devices running Android 4.4 KitKat and later versions. It is worth noting that Periscope's rival app, Meerkat, which also debuted on iOS first, reached Android on April 15, more than a month before. The app earlier this month left its public beta version on Android and was updated to version 1.0.
Twitter launched the Periscope live video streaming app taking on Meerkat. The almost overnight rise of Meerkat led to Twitter users flooding the social network with live video broadcasts. Twitter however along with the launch of Periscope blocked Meerkat's access to its social graph, making it difficult for users to find and notify their followers. The move is thought to have given Periscope a chance to grow its network of users rapidly. Meerkat bypassed the issue with addresss book integration, and at the same time, also introduced what may be the most important differentiator - the ability for users to post live and upcoming streams onto their Facebook Pages. This is coupled with the ability to sign in with Facebook Connect to view Meerkat live streams.
Message Robin
 
2000 characters left
In the Stores
Popular Right Now


Following the much-hyped iOS launch back in March, Twitter's live broadcasting app Periscope has now landed on Android. Unveiled on Tuesday, the app carries the same functionality as its iOS sibling, but with a few minor differences unique to the Android platform.
When Periscope debuted earlier this year, it generated much discussion about the future of broadcasting. From that point, anybody wielding an iOS device could stream all the action live from their camera to anybody willing to tune in.
Much like Twitter itself, it quickly became a popular tool for celebrities and was adopted by everybody from Jimmy Fallon to Ringo Starr. What's more, it raised interesting questions about piracy, with this month's Pay-Per-View Mayweather-Pacquiao bout beamed live to the smartphones of non-paying sports fans all around the world.
Android users running version 4.4 (KitKat) can now freely download the Periscope app from Google Play . As it does on iOS, the app integrates with Twitter, offering users a list of suggested accounts to follow the first time they sign in. The home screen displays live and recent streams from people you follow, along with featured streams suggested by the app.
A shiny red button at the bottom right of screen can be hit to begin a broadcast of your own, which users can choose to be public or a private broadcast streamed only to followers they select. Give the broadcast a title, tag the location if you wish and you're away, bringing a summary of your lunch or a fire in Brooklyn live to the mobile screens of anybody who is interested.
In a blog post, Periscope's developers note a few differences between the Android and iOS versions. Further to an interface inspired by Material design, Google's visual language, Android users can configure the app to push notifications when somebody they follow on Twitter broadcasts for the first time and also if somebody they are following shares somebody else's broadcast. Another added feature is the ability to resume watching broadcasts from where you left off, should you be interrupted by a phone call or message.
About the Author
Nick was born outside of Melbourne, Australia, with a general curiosity that has drawn him to some distant (and very cold) places. Somewhere between enduring a winter in the Canadian Rockies and trekking through Chilean Patagonia, he graduated from university and pursued a career in journalism. Having worked for publications such as The Santiago Times and The Conversation, he now writes for Gizmag from Melbourne, excited by tech and all forms of innovation, the city's bizarre weather and curried egg sandwiches. All articles by Nick Lavars
Email:
Password:
March 26, 2015
October 24, 2012
 
See the stories that matter in your inbox every morning
Your Email

