Judge Reprimands Bharara for &quotMedia Blitz" Following Silver Indictment
A federal judge reprimanded U.S. Lawyer Preet Bharara for his &quotmedia blitz" following the indictment of Sheldon Silver on corruption charges in January, Capital New York reports. The warning came even as the judge rejected Silver's motion to dismiss...
A federal judge reprimanded U.S. Lawyer Preet Bharara for his &quotmedia blitz" following the indictment of Sheldon Silver on corruption charges in January, Capital New York reports. The warning came even as the judge rejected Silver's motion to dismiss the case on the grounds that Bharara had made &quotprejudicial extrajudical statements."
In her choice rejecting Silver's motion to dismiss the case, United States District Court Judge Valerie Caproni wrote, &quotThe U.S. Attorney, while castigating politicians in Albany for playing quickly and loose with the ethical rules that govern their conduct, strayed so close to the edge of the rules governing his personal conduct that defendant Sheldon Silver has a non-frivolous argument that he fell over the edge to the defendant’s prejudice."
&quotIn particular, the court is troubled by remarks by the U.S. Lawyer that appeared to bundle collectively unproven allegations concerning the defendant with broader commentary on corruption and a lack of transparency in certain elements of New York State politics."
The day soon after the former New York state assembly speaker was arrested, Bharara delivered a gleeful speech at the New York Law College criticizing (rightfully) Albany's so-called culture of &quotthree males in a room," of which Silver was allegedly one.
&quotWhy three males?" Bharara asked. &quotCan there be a lady? Do they usually have to be white? How small is the room that they can only match three men? Is it 3 guys in a closet? Are there cigars? Can they have Cuban cigars now? Right after a though, does not it get a little gamy in that area?"
&quotCriminal circumstances should really be attempted in the courtroom and not in the press," Caproni wrote.
Photo credit: AP Photos. Get in touch with the author of this post: brendan.oconnor@gawker.com.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
Ad Soyad:
 
UYARI: Küfür, hakaret, rencide edici cümleler veya imalar, inançlara saldırı içeren, imla kuralları ile yazılmamış, Türkçe karakter kullanılmayan ve tamamı büyük harflerle yazılmış yorumlar onaylanmamaktadır. Ayrıca suç teşkil edecek hakaret içerikli yorumlar hakkında muhatapları tarafından dava açılabilmektedir.
Breaking News Headlines
Related Breaking News

