Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Chicago mayoral runoff heads into the last lap
With a runoff election between Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Jesus "Chuy" Garcia on  Tuesday, voters are experiencing something they haven't seen in years: an incumbent mayor campaigning hard for re-election.
Post to Facebook
Chicago mayoral runoff heads into the last lap With a runoff election between Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Jesus "Chuy" Garcia on  Tuesday, voters are experiencing something they haven't seen in years: an incumbent mayor campaigning hard for re-election. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1C6WumY
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Chicago mayoral runoff heads into the last lap
Aamer Madhani , USA TODAY 2:48 p.m. EDT April 5, 2015
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel casts his ballot during early voting Thursday, April 2, 2015 in Chicago. Emanuel faces Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garcia in a runoff election.
(Photo: Brian Jackson, AP)
CHICAGO — With a runoff election between Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garcia on Tuesday, voters here are experiencing something they haven't seen in years: an incumbent mayor campaigning hard for their votes.
Nearly six weeks after none of the five candidates vying for mayor won a majority of the votes, Emanuel and Garcia crisscrossed the city over the holiday weekend as they made their closing arguments.
"I am asking for your vote not only for this election," Emanuel told voters at a get-out-the vote rally Saturday on Chicago's South Side, where he courted African American voters with Atlanta's Mayor Kasim Reed by his side. "More importantly, I'm asking for your continued work together…because we all have a stake in it."
Not since Richard M. Daley won the first of six consecutive terms in 1989 has a Chicago mayoral race had even a whiff of competitiveness. Chicago ceased holding party primaries in 1995, when it switched to the current election format. Tuesday will be the city's first mayoral runoff.
Garcia has a steep mountain to climb to unseat Emanuel, who is seeking his second term.
Since the runoff campaign began, Emanuel — who has raised about eight times as much money as his opponent — has buried Garcia in negative advertising that criticizes him for being vague about his plans to deal with the city's financial crisis. Emanuel touts himself as an experienced hand who has brought thousands of jobs to Chicago and can get the city through tough times.
Polls show that Emanuel has gone from being knotted in a dead heat with Garcia to a double-digit lead.
Still, seasoned watchers of the Chicago political scene say the race could be much closer.
Pollsters have suggested that Hispanics, who are a fast-growing community in Chicago and are at the center of Garcia's voting bloc, are undersampled in polling.
After 34% of eligible voters turned out for the general election in February, election officials have seen a big spike in early voting for the runoff. More than 142,000 voters cast early ballots, compared with nearly 90,000 early ballots cast in the general election six weeks ago. Tuesday's voting will take place during spring break for Chicago schools, which might mean vacationing families already voted -- or would skip voting.
"The real issue is who is going to show up to vote, who the motivated voters are,"  said Dick Simpson, a former alderman who teaches political science at the University of Illinois at Chicago. "I think this race is closer than the polls show it to be."
Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garcia says he will hire 1,000 more police officers if he is elected mayor of Chicago.
 (Photo: Charles Rex Arbogast, AP)
The runoff comes as Chicago is deep in debt. The city has $20 billion in unfunded pension obligations, the schools have a $1.1 billion deficit, and the city's shabby financial situation has led to its bond rating being downgraded repeatedly.
Garcia argues that Emanuel has done a poor job with city finances and violent crime. He has blasted the expansive use of red light cameras, which generate tens of millions of dollars for the city but are widely scorned by Chicago residents.
Garcia, who is backed by the Chicago Teachers Union, also says Emanuel has run roughshod over the city's teachers and parents.
Emanuel closed 50 public schools with low enrollment during his first term and had a rancorous relationship with the teachers union, which in 2012 went on strike for the first time in 25 years.
Garcia derides Emanuel as "Mayor 1%" and calls him a tool of the wealthy. Emanuel's campaign and a political action committee aligned with him and his city council allies have raised more than $30 million combined, the bulk of which has come from about 100 contributors.
The commissioner says that if he is elected he will hire an additional 1,000 police officers and end the use of red light cameras. He has suggested that he would reopen some of the schools shuttered by Emanuel. But he appears to have had a tough time convincing voters that his lofty campaign promises are feasible.
"Ultimately he did not provide a simple answer to Emanuel's hard-hitting question 'How would he pay for it all?'" the Chicago polling firm Ogden & Fry wrote Sunday in an analysis that accompanied its latest poll, which showed Emanuel leading by 13%. "The voters know Chicago's budget is a mess and don't want to see their property taxes or rent (indirectly) increase."
Garcia has been endorsed by liberal politicians such as former Democratic presidential candidate Howard Dean and Sen. Bernie Sanders, a Vermont independent. He has relied on prominent activists like Gloria Steinem, Rev. Jesse Jackson and philosopher-activist Cornel West to make the case that Emanuel, a centrist Democrat, is not good for Chicago.
"Brother Rahm is not a brother of integrity," West said. "He is too mean and arrogant. He's too condescending. He's too paternalistic. "
Emanuel, a former chief of staff to President Obama who also served in Congress, has worked to soften his image in recent weeks. The mayor's imperious reputation goes back to his Washington days. While working in the Clinton administration, he once sent a pollster he was angry with a dead fish.
In one of his first TV ads after the runoff, Emanuel admitted that he "can rub people the wrong way." He revisited the theme in his latest ad, which began airing last week.
"Chicago's a great city, but we can be even better," Emanuel says in the ad. "And yeah, I hear ya, so can I."
4 CONNECT 1 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1C6WumY
USA NOW
Apr 05, 2015

