Posted:
Hillary Clinton’s campaign will be headquartered in Brooklyn -- like everything else in Brooklyn, it will be filled with reclaimed wood, poorly lit and actually just be a restaurant called “Gathering.” Someone threw a jar of vaseline at Paul LePage, because glitter-bombing is so 2012. And Tom Cotton eats birthday cake every day. He’ll be super bummed to learn his baker caters gay weddings. This is HUFFPOST HILL for Friday, April 3rd, 2015:
GOP STILL MOBILIZING FOR IRAN BILL - S.B. 5491: If Obama Can't Prevent A Veto-Proof Majority, How Can He Face Ahmadinejad? Laura Barron-Lopez: "Within minutes of the president's address, Senate Republicans said they would continue to push a bill that prevents any final deal from taking effect for 60 days, giving Congress time to vote for or against it -- or do nothing. 'There is growing bipartisan support for congressional review of the nuclear deal, and I am confident of a strong vote on the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act when the Senate Foreign Relations Committee takes it up on April 14,' committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) said in a statement, referencing the legislation that he has shepherded to near veto-proof support…To inch closer to the 67-vote veto-proof majority, proponents of the bill will likely target Democratic Sens. Ben Cardin (Md.) and Chris Coons (Del.), which would leave them only one supporter short. Coons let his skepticism be known Thursday, saying that he has told the administration that 'no deal is better than a bad deal' and that he will work with his colleagues to 'ensure that Congress' voice is heard in this process.'" [ HuffPost ]
CLINTON AIDES PURCHASE CAMPAIGN OFFICE - But the real tip that Hillary is running came when Huma Abedin was spotted  shopping for giant Keurig machines. Politico: "The chaotic weeks of working out of Starbucks, friends’ Manhattan pads, and a tiny office space will soon come to an end for Hillary Clinton’s early staffers — they’re officially setting up shop at 1 Pierrepont Plaza in Brooklyn Heights. A lease has been signed at that location for Clinton’s campaign headquarters, according to a source familiar with the deal. The operation will occupy two full floors of the building, which is close to 12 subway lines and a dozen bus lines. The Clinton team will be taking the space as is – with no buildout. Having the ink dry on the lease indicates that Clinton’s official announcement will be coming very soon. Federal Election Commission rules state that a candidate has only 15 days between conducting campaign activities and filing the official 2016 paperwork, and the lease signing could start the clock on an official launch." [ Politico ]
@grybaum : Hillary Clinton campaign office is literally on Clinton Street...Also, Clinton Street becomes Tillary Street. bit.ly/1BYQMEJ
TOM COTTON LOVES HIMSELF SO MUCH -
"Freshmen Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) likes birthday cake so much, he eats it nearly every day. Most days, Cotton tells The New York Times magazine, he eats the birthday cake with ice cream. “Early on, when my wife and I were dating, we went to the grocery store, and I told her that sometimes I just buy birthday cakes, and I eat them. And she said, ‘Really? I do, too.’' It doesn’t matter if it isn’t anyone’s birthday, Cotton tells the Times. He said his wife, Anna, 'went to the grocery store yesterday and picked up a white birthday cake.' Cotton, who turns 38 next month, goes to the gym regularly to work off the birthday cake calorie." [ The Hill ]
Happy birthday to me *sob*
Comparing Tom Cotton's cake obsession with Earl Blumenauer's fruitcake obsession .
DAILY DELANEY DOWNER - In honor of today's jobs report, I asked low-wage vet Linda Tirado how someone might tell if their job sucsk. Here are three of the ways: "If you don't get holiday pay but you're forced to work holidays, your job sucks. You can always tell if your job sucks if every day you think, 'Oh god, I have to go there and do this again.' If you're wearing a polyester uniform shirt, that's a great way to tell. If at any point you have been issued polyester, you have a job that sucks." [ HuffPost ]
DOUBLE DOWNER - Here is one commenter's reaction to Tirado's list: "I worked all my life. I got my first job, delivering newspapers, when I was 12. All the jobs I had in my adult life were terrible. Her check list is a good description of the kind of jobs I had. It was God awful, and it made for a wasted life."
Haircut: Michael Whitney (h/t Michael Whitney), Tyler Miers (h/t Twitter serach for "haircut").
Does somebody keep forwarding you this newsletter? Get your own copy. It's free! Sign up here. Send tips/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to huffposthill@huffingtonpost.com. Follow us on Twitter - @HuffPostHill
REPUBLICANS SUPPORTING EX-CON VOTING - Jen Bendery: "[I]t turns out there is at least one voting rights issue that Republicans can get behind: reinstating voting rights to certain criminals after they get out of prison. 'Absolutely,' said Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.). 'I'm cool with a process that would allow you to get from there to here. I believe in second chances.' 'I think if someone is judged to have completed their debt to society, then that's certainly something that should be seriously considered,' said Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.). 'I don't think someone -- if they paid their debt to society -- why they can't re-enter society.' He paused before adding, 'Maybe that sounds like a liberal view.' Currently, the question of whether an ex-offender can vote in a state or federal election is largely determined by where the person lives. Some states permanentlyrevoke voting rights for people convicted of a felony. Other states, like Maine and Vermont, never strip felons of their voting rights, even while they are in prison. Most states do restore voting rights to ex-felons after they have served their full sentence, but the process for registering again to vote can be burdensome." [ HuffPost ]
CRUZ SHIP LEAVES PORT: RUNS FIRST CAMPAIGN AD - It's too early to speculate, but we can only assume that Jesus is in the running to be President Cruz' Attorney General. Katie Zezima:  "Sen. Ted Cruz’s presidential campaign has purchased television advertising time this weekend on local affiliates and national cable networks, his campaign said Thursday, making him the first White House contender to hit the airwaves this cycle. Cruz (R-Tex.) has reserved time during 'Killing Jesus,' a documentary-style adaptation of Bill O’Reilly’s book that will run four times this weekend on Fox News...The campaign has also purchased ads statewide in the early-voting states of Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire and South Carolina during NBC’s 'A.D.: The Bible Continues' on Easter Sunday..." [ WaPo ]
@HowardMortman : 2007 WH Easter Egg Roll: ".... Please pause for our national anthem sung by Miley Cyrus" http://t.co/3LFfrsyHpy
THEY SEE ME ROVE'IN, THEY HATIN' - He should count himself lucky Code Pink was previously engaged.  Maxwell Tani: "At an event at the University of Connecticut on Tuesday, the former advisor to President George W. Bush was confronted by a student who introduced himself as an Iraq War veteran, the Hartford Courant reported. He told Rove about the horrors that he witnessed during combat, and demanded that Rove apologize for his role in instigating the war. 'Can you take responsibility and apologize for your decision in sending a generation to lose their humanity and deal with the horrors of war which you have never had the courage to face?'  the student, Ryan Henowitz, asked. Rove refused to apologize, saying former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein posed a threat to the United States. 'I appreciate your service, but I’m not going to apologize for our government doing the right thing in removing Saddam Hussein from power,' Rove said." [ HuffPost ]
But there's also going to be a few more little common core victims born: "Though a new abortion-related bill introduced in the North Carolina State House is ostensibly meant to protect patient safety, one of the bill's co-sponsors said that a positive byproduct of the restrictions would be 'a few more little taxpayers born.'" [ Samantha Lachman ]
BECAUSE YOU'VE READ THIS FAR - Here's a heroic dog .
TALK ABOUT GREASING PALMS, AMIRITE? - WGME: "Governor LePage's town hall-style meeting ended suddenly Thursday after the former mayor of Biddeford, Joanne Twomey, interrupted the governor and tossed a jar of Vaseline near him. 'Oh yes, I threw the jar at the stage,' Twomey told CBS 13. Twomey shouted at Governor LePage during the question and answer portion of the event.  When she approached the stage where the governor was speaking, several security people pulled Twomey away from the stage. She was not arrested. Outside, Twomey was embraced and rebuffed. 'That is why we come here, so we can get our point across, just like he likes to get his point across,' said Jackie Edwards...Twomey says she she chose Vaseline to throw at the governor because of his reference almost 2 years ago about a Democratic lawmaker, Sen. Troy  Jackson. Back then, Governor LePage claimed Jackson, “claims to be for the people but he’s the  first one to give it to the people without providing Vaseline.”" [ WGME ]
COMFORT FOOD
- Manischewitz products or terrible. Here's why they're so popular.
TWITTERAMA
@JGreenDC : it's a boring day in news, so I'll be giving America what it deserves: medium resolution screenshots of things anyone can google
@Bro_Pair : "We fear for our lives and don't know if we can make pizza pockets again," cried Tara Brungus, proprietor of AIDS Was God's Will Pizzeria
@brianbeutler : Joan of Arc. Nathan Hale. Memories Pizza. #tcot
Got something to add? Send tips/quotes/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to Eliot Nelson (eliot@huffingtonpost.com) or Arthur Delaney (arthur@huffingtonpost.com). Follow us on Twitter @HuffPostHill (twitter.com/HuffPostHill). Sign up here: http://huff.to/an2k2e
More:
Conversations
Options
Politics
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Politics
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Politics
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

