Uber’s last conquest: airports
By:
ATLANTA, May 26, 2015:
The emergence of Uber has all but ushered in a gloomy future for taxis – but one area where taxis still hold strong are airports where drives from the ride-hailing services are barred from picking up passengers.
This soon may change as US airports, aware that the tidal wave of acceptance of the Uber phenomenon, are gradually rewriting regulations to welcome all manner of cars, reports the New York Times.
Late last year, San Francisco International became among the first airport to officially allow Uber, which is based in the Bay Area, and Lyft – and other airports are following suit where deals are struck with individual ride-hailing firms of each airport’s choosing.
Founder of travel advice blog TravelSkills.com, Chris McGinnis, told NYT: “I can’t think of any of my friends who do not use Uber or Lyft to and from the airport.”
In March, Uber and Wingz broke into the crowded Southern California market by striking deals with John Wayne Airport in Santa Ana.
Los Angeles International will join in when limitations are lifted this summer as mayor Eric Garcetti has pledged, though some city council members have voiced objections over what they see as an uneven playing field.
At La Guardia and Kennedy International Airport in New York, drivers for UberX, Uber’s lower-cost service, can pick up passengers if they are licensed by the US Taxi & Limousine Commission.
It is the only market where all drivers are required to obtain a taxi license and show proof of insurance.
However so, most airports around the world still do not allow UberX drivers to pick up passengers,even though its executive director Ray Mundy expects the service to be widely permitted within two years.
NYT reported that Uber says its services create more efficient traffic flow because it can ferry passengers to and from airports where “deadhead trips” that involve no riders in one direction are avoided.
Another factor it weighs in is that more transportation options can reduce the demand for parking spaces.
Uber spokesman Lane Kasselman said Uber is not trying to wipe out traditional car services, only to complement them.
“Travelers don’t just want access to Uber at airports,” he said. “They have come to expect it.”
Happy 0%
Sad 0%
Angry 0%
Shocked 0%
Nothing 0%
Share article
Share this
Tweet this
26 Mar 2015, 07:03AM
KOTA KINABALU, April 14, 2015: Sabah’s ongoing dusk to dawn curfew in the six districts under...
• • •
“Is it eight? Did I win eight awards? Yeah, sick.”
Pop star Taylor Swift after winning eight awards at the Billboard Music Awards, becoming the most decorated artiste in the show's history with 20 wins.
“See I do smile … even laugh on occasion. Not too often though because it causes wrinkles.”
Reality star Kim Kardashian West wrote next to an Instagram picture with her friend, Shamari Maurice, both laughing, to explain why she is seldom pictured smiling.
LEAVE US YOUR FEEDBACK

