GEOFF MULVIHIL, Associated Press
Updated 2:18 pm, Friday, April 3, 2015
Page 1 of 1
TRENTON, N.J. (AP) — In New Jersey, legislative elections tend not to be very topsy-turvy.
After major candidates for the Assembly were filed on Monday, it looks like maintaining the status quo is a possibility even with all 80 seats up this year.
Just seven out of 40 districts have competitive primaries — four on the Democratic side and three on the Republican. There could be as few as six new lawmakers come January if all the incumbents seeking re-election prevail both in the June 2 primary and in the general election in November.
___
HOW IT WORKS
Each of New Jersey's 40 legislative districts has one senator, who serves a 4-year term, and two members of the Assembly. The Assembly members serve two years. All the Assembly seats will be on the ballot in November. The senate seats — with one exception — won't be up until 2017.
Without governor, president or other federal offices on the ballot, this could be a low-turnout vote.
Unlike many states, New Jersey's Legislature meets year-round, or nearly so. But it's still technically a part-time job and pays $49,000 annually.
Democrats hold 48 Assembly seats to the Republicans ' 32.
___
SOME SPECIAL WRINKLES
Most years when Assembly seats are on the ballot, the governor and/or state Senate seats are above them on the ballot.
But in years when the Assembly is the top ticket, like this year, turnout tends to be low. The last time, only 6 percent of registered voters showed up in 1999.
To be fair, nearly half the registered voters are not eligible. Only registered party members may participate in the primary, and nearly half of New Jersey voters are unaffiliated.
___
WHERE THERE'S COMPETITION
Only seven districts have more than two candidates in either party's primaries.
Two northern New Jersey districts in Democratic strongholds have the most potential to have wild primaries.
In the 20th District in Union County, Democratic incumbents Annette Quijano and Jamel Holley — who was appointed to complete the term this year when Joseph Cryan left to become sheriff — are already running a cable television commercial.
The reason is relatively simple: They're facing two slates of primary challengers: Vivian Bell and Jorge Batista , and Tony Monterio and Gullilano Farina.
___
THIS YEAR'S CHALLENGER WITH A GOV. CHRISTIE RUN-IN
James Keady , a former member of the Asbury Park city council, is running as a Democrat in the 30th District, where Republicans hold the seats.
___
WHAT ABOUT THE SENATE?
Only one Senate seat is on the ballot in November. That's in the 5th District, representing parts of Camden and Gloucester counties, where Democrat Donald Norcross resigned after winning a seat in Congress. The winner will serve the remainder of the term.
No primary drama is expected as Nilsa Cruz-Perez , a former lawmaker who was appointed to fill in for Norcross, has no competition from other Democrats. Republican Keith Walker , a former mayoral candidate, is unopposed on the Republican line in the heavily Democratic district.

