Caption
(Al Lagattolla – alagattolla@shawmedia.com)
Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner (left) speaks Tuesday morning during an appearance at the Kane County Government Center. Kane County Board Chairman Chris Lauzen stands near Rauner.
By AL LAGATTOLLA - alagattolla@shawmedia.com
GENEVA – Gov. Bruce Rauner brought his message to the Kane County Government Center on Tuesday morning, seeking county officials that would “endorse” his agenda.
Related Links
Rauner has been making stops throughout the state, seeking local support for his plan. Rauner’s staff distributed a packet called “The Illinois Turnaround.”
“I am asking that the Kane County Board pass a resolution in support of our agenda,” Rauner said, adding several county boards and cities in the state have endorsed it. Rauner spoke to a few dozen people in the government center’s auditorium. Many county officials were in attendance.
Rauner has been making stops to find common ground with officials throughout the state after many reacted with anger when Rauner’s proposed budget was released in February. At that time, local leaders were upset over potential significant cuts in the local governments’ share of the state income tax. Rauner stressed taking control away from special interests and said he aimed to “empower local voters.” He spoke of term limits and hit several other points, including workers compensation reform and lawsuit reform.
Chris Lauzen, chairman of the Kane County Board, said Rauner demonstrated a desire to connect with officials, and he predicted there would indeed be some points the Kane County Board could endorse. Lauzen, who introduced Rauner at Tuesday’s event, handed out a statement providing “some examples of where we can easily agree” and offer “support to one of the three most powerful political leaders in Illinois.”
Lauzen listed 13 such items, including that the state has “huge problems” that will require “huge solutions.” He was on board with making changes, saying “if we want the same results in Springfield, they should keep doing the same things on the budget.” He mentioned there must be major pension reform, that Medicaid eligibility “must be recalibrated” and stated “there needs to be an agency-by-agency review of spending cuts and consolidation.”
The chairman also listed three “more controversial” areas involving collective bargaining, campaign contributions and term limits.
“We can ‘customize’ our approach toward supporting reform in Springfield,” Lauzen wrote in his statement. “I think that we ought to make the most of this opportunity.”
Lauzen said he was pleased the governor had visited Geneva, and he said he couldn’t remember the last time that had happened.
In a brief meeting with reporters after the speech, Rauner said there were ways to improve that situation through reforms that could free up more resources to local municipalities. He said he’s been laying out such scenarios to mayors and village presidents and, “when I explain that to mayors and county board members, they get it.”
Geneva Mayor Kevin Burns was among the harshest local critics of Rauner’s budget plan , saying the impact on the city would be $1 million. In late February, he was among several local leaders who spoke out against the cuts during a Metro West Council of Government news conference.
Reached via phone, Burns said he wasn’t at the governor’s appearance, but he said the fact that Rauner is speaking about the plan is a positive thing.
“I think as long as the lines of communication are open between city leaders and the governor’s office, I’m confident that our message will resonate,” Burns said. “And I would look forward to an open dialogue as the months go by.”
Comments
More News
Comments
Yes
No
Copyright © 2015 mySuburbanLife.com. All rights reserved. Published in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, by Shaw Media.

