Recent
The skin color of a firefighter doesn't matter the way it does for a police officer. Firefighters are not making judgment calls about who to s…
Recent
RECENT
Recent
Recent
MORE
MORE
RECENT
Saved
Paul Maynard sent a letter to a newspaper in his name that was written by the district superintendent  Read more
JEFFERSON COUNTY • The Fox School District, which has been mired in controversy, elected two new board members Tuesday, ousting the lone incumbent.
Meanwhile in Hillsboro, Frank Roland Jr., who died March 9 at age 81, was elected to another term as mayor. Roland, who had been mayor since 1995, was unopposed on the ballot before his death.
Jim Gowan, president of the Board of Aldermen, registered as a write-in candidate after the mayor died. He has been serving as interim mayor since Roland’s death. Now the board will decide whether to appoint Gowan or someone else to fill out the term.
In the Fox School Board election, the winners were Chris Hastings, who had the support of local labor groups including the Fox chapter of the Missouri National Education Association, and Sherry Poppen, a retired district administrative assistant. They bested incumbent David Palmer and three other candidates.
“We’re going to get back to focusing on student achievement,” Hastings said.
Poppen pledged to do what’s best for students and families.
The district has seen its share of controversy recently. It has come under fire over allegations of nepotism, and Dianne Critchlow, who retired last year as one of the highest paid superintendents in the state , is named with other administrators in a libel lawsuit filed by district critics. Also, t he state is auditing the district after questionable transactions were uncovered.
In the Northwest School District, voters defeated a tax increase of 85 cents for each $100 of assessed valuation to pay for technology improvements, building maintenance, utilities and teacher salaries. Taxes on a $100,000 home would have increased by $161.50 a year.
The district has said that if the tax hike didn’t pass, it would be forced to consider $4 million in cuts , including some to at-risk and gifted programs and a reduction in teaching staff.
Three fire districts seeking property or sales tax increases won approval.
Only the all-volunteer Mapaville Fire Protection District lost its bid for a property tax hike to go toward hiring two full-time firefighters. The district wanted to raise its property tax rate by 50 cents for each $100 of assessed valuation.
The Cedar Hill Fire Protection Fire District will increase its property tax rate by 50 cents for each $100 of assessed valuation. Taxes on a $100,000 home will increase by $95 a year and will be used in part to staff all three of its fire stations 24 hours a day.
The Goldman Fire District got an increase of 25 cents for each $100 of assessed valuation to be phased in over three years. Taxes on a $100,000 home will increase by $47.50 a year in 2017.
The Hillsboro Fire Protection District won approval to impose a half-cent sales tax and trim its property tax rate. Its tax on a $150,000 home would drop from $184 a year to $157 and the added sales tax is expected to give the fire district an extra $116,000 a year.
Also, the Valle Ambulance District will impose a half-cent sales tax while decreasing the property tax on a $100,000 home from $38 a year to around $23. The district will add a fourth ambulance crew.
Leah Thorsen • 636-937-6249
@leahthorsen on Twitter
lthorsen@post-dispatch.com
Copyright 2015 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with www.stltoday.com account:
Username & Password Required!

