 
Wed, 27 May 2015  1:03 AM ET
Dodgers pitcher Clayton Kershaw tossed seven scoreless innings Tuesday to earn his third win of the season during an 8-0 win over the Braves.
Kershaw (3-3) struck out 10 batters and walked none. It was his third time reaching double digit strike outs in a game as well not surrendering a walk this season. He has struck out 27 combined batters in his last three starts. His ERA now stands at 3.86.
His next expected start is scheduled for Monday at Colorado.
May 16, 2015 2:50 AM
MORE
COMMENTS
by Sean d'Oliveira | CBSSports.com
(1:57 am ET) If Mets third baseman David Wright misses 60 games this season, the team would recoup 75 percent of his contract while he is unable to play, sources told FoxSports.
Wright is on the disabled list with a back issue. He has only appeared in eight games this season and he has not played since April 14.
Albert Pujols gets two hits in Angels' loss
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:54 am ET) The Angels only managed five hits against San Diego in a shutout loss, and first baseman Albert Pujols had two of them. 
Pujols went 2 for 4, lifting his average to .235
Matt Kemp's bases-loaded double gives Padres win
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:51 am ET) Padres right fielder Matt Kemp hit a bases-clearing, two-out double in the tenth inning to help beat the Angels on Tuesday. 
Kemp went 2 for 5 and broke a scoreless tie with his bases loaded hit. His three RBI gave him 25 on the year. He also scored a run. The double was his tenth this season and the only extra base hit for either team in the game.
Angels' Joe Smith gives up four 10th inning runs to lose
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:49 am ET) Angels reliever Joe Smith gave up four runs in 2/3 of an inning to lose to San Diego on Tuesday.
Smith started the tenth and loaded the bases on a single and two walks. He gave up a two-out, bases clearing double, then left the game. The runner he left on base eventually came around to score. 
Smith had gone nine straight appearances without allowing a run before Tuesday. 
Padres' Dale Thayer earns win in relief
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:46 am ET) Padres reliever Dale Thayer earned his first win of the season, Tuesday, over the Angels. 
Thayer came on with one out in the ninth inning and retired the only two batters he faced, to send the game to extra innings. The Padres scored four in the tenth to give him a 1-0 record on the year.
Thayer lowered his ERA to 3.00. 
Report: Braves send Eric Stults, Ian Thomas, Juan Jaime to Dodgers
by Sean d'Oliveira | CBSSports.com
(1:45 am ET) As part of the trade sending Braves infielder Alberto Callaspo to the Dodgers in exchange for Juan Uribe, the Braves will also send Eric Stults , Ian Thomas and Juan Jaime to the Dodgers, reports the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
The Braves are reportedly expected to receive pitcher Chris Withrow in the deal as well, reports FoxSports.
Angels' Matt Shoemaker has seven scoreless in no-decision
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:43 am ET) Angels starter Matt Shoemaker picked up a hard-luck no-decision after pitching seven scoreless innings against San Diego. 
Shoemaker allowed four hits and walked one, while striking out six. He cut his ERA to 5.44.
The next start for Shoemaker is Sunday, against Detroit. 
Padres' Odrisamer Despaigne has six shutout innings in no-decision
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:41 am ET) Padres starter Odrisamer Despaigne had six shutout innings against the Angels on Tuesday, but he left with a no-decision. 
Despaigne struck out five, allowed five hits and didn't walk a batter. He lowered his ERA to 5.23 with the performance.
The next start for Despaigne is Sunday, against Pittsburgh. 
Athletics' Ben Zobrist gets two hits in first game back
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:37 am ET) Athletics second baseman Ben Zobrist returned to the lineup for the first time in more than a month and didn't look rusty.
Zobrist played for the first time since April 24, when he went to the disabled list with a knee injury.
Zobrist went 2 for 4 in the A's shutout loss to Detroit on Tuesday. He hit his sixth double of the year, one of only two extra base hits in the game for either team.   
Tigers will start Kyle Ryan in place of Alfredo Simon on Wednesday
by Sean d'Oliveira | CBSSports.com
(1:35 am ET) With Tigers pitcher Alfredo Simon on the bereavement list to deal with his ailing father, manager Brad Ausmus said the team will turn to Kyle Ryan to start Wednesday's game at Oakland, reports the Detroit Free Press. Ryan must still travel to Oakland in order to play in the game.
Ryan went 2-0 with a 2.61 ERA over six games last season for the Tigers.
 

