We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.
Close
White House Installs First Gender-Neutral Toilet
The symbolic initiative is the latest in a series of actions by President Barack Obama to support the LGBT community.
13:43, UK, Friday 10 April 2015
A gender neutral bathroom is seen at the University of California
By Sky News US Team
The White House has opened its first gender-neutral toilet in a symbolic gesture to signal Barack Obama's support for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community.
The move was announced shortly after the White House said the President wants an end to psychiatric therapies that seek to change the sexual orientation of LGBT youth.
 The "all-gender" facility is in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, where many employees have meetings and offices.
That is next door to the West Wing which houses the President's offices.
"The White House allows staff and guests to use restrooms consistent with their gender identity, which is in keeping with the Administration's existing legal guidance on this issue," White House spokesman Jeff Tiller said in a statement.
Mr Obama has taken a firm stand over the past year or so on gay and also transgender rights.
In addition to the conversion therapy stance, the President this week issued an executive order barring companies that do business with the federal government from discriminating against LGBT staff.
But the debate around transgender rights is becoming hotly contested in the US.
The number of gender-neutral bathrooms in workplaces and colleges has grown in America in recent years. At the same time some US states are considering legislation that would curb transgender people's ability to choose what restroom to use.
In Florida, the 'Bathroom Surveillance Bill' would ban transgender people from using bathrooms and locker rooms except those designated for their gender at birth. 
Transgender advocates have attacked the laws as discriminatory and accused legislators in some states of "attacking the dignity and humanity of transgender and gender non-conforming people".
Promoted Stories
Top Stories

