Spieth and Day head field in Dallas
The PGA Tour remains in the Dallas / Fort Worth area this week for the AT&T Byron Nelson at the TPC Four Seasons Resort in the Dallas suburb of Irving.
The world number two Jordan Spieth arrives at the event off the back of a great week at the Crown Plaza where he finished 2nd and will start as the pronounced favourite in many people’s eyes.
Being from this area Spieth was afforded starts even before turning professional and while he has never contended as such he has never missed a cut in four starts and given his current standing in the game he could improve sharply on those efforts.
Jason Day’s first PGA Tour title came here in this event in 2010 and he followed up with a couple of good efforts after that. Day’s form of late has been a little mixed. He finished 4th in New Orleans and then did not win a match at the Cadillac and missed the cut at the Players. If he has been able to get things sorted out in the past couple of weeks he has a chance on a golf course he obviously enjoys.
Dustin Johnson has had three top tens in five starts in the event but his most recent form this season has been below his best. A week off might have helped his hopes for this but he will need to improve sharply on not making the round of 16 at the Match Play and then finishing 69th at the Players.
Charley Hoffman is putting himself into position to contend a lot of late and if he can find a way to finish things off then he could be a good chance in this. The last time he played here he finished 8th and although his overall record in the event is not great but he might be one for longer odds.
Marc Leishman has been playing well of late and enjoys a good record in this event having been twice 3rd and two other top twelves in six attempts. Leishman seems to have an affinity with Texas having also won a Web.Com Tour event in the State by a record margin. I think this is the sort of week that could take him close to winning his second PGA Tour title.
Ian Poulter went close last week in Fort Worth and in one of his three trips to this event he played well enough to finish 3rd. His form is good enough now for him to perhaps even better that.
Other Australians in the field are John Senden, Matt Jones, Geoff Ogilvy, recent Web.Com Tour winner, Rod Pampling, Cameron Smith, Greg Chalmers, Aaron Baddeley, Robert Allenby and Cameron Percy.
Cameron Smith is here as a tournament invitee and with more than US$360,000 to his name in earnings from his 5th place at the CIMB event in Kuala Lumpur and the Heritage at Hilton Head another good week could get him close to earning enough to points to earn special temporary membership.
About the Author: Bruce Young
A multi-award winning golf journalist, Bruce's extensive knowledge of the game comes from several years caddying the tournament circuits of the world, marketing a successful golf course design company and as one of Australia's leading golf journalists and commentators.
Become a member of Australasia's number one golf website today!
Member sign in

