Featured
Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By SOPHIA TAREEN and SARA BURNETT
Associated Press
Chicago voters head to the polls Tuesday in the city’s first mayoral runoff as Rahm Emanuel seeks a second term over Cook County Commissioner Jesus “Chuy” Garcia.
The candidates crisscrossed Chicago a day earlier to greet commuters, rally supporters and call voters. Emanuel, a former White House chief of staff, has tried to convince the public he’s the best person to navigate Chicago’s mounting fiscal problems. Garcia has criticized Emanuel for not listening to neighborhood residents and touted a strong get-out-the-vote effort.
Here are some things to know about Tuesday:
–––
EARLY VOTING SURGE
The Chicago Board of Election Commissioners says more than 142,300 residents voted early, compared with nearly 90,000 ahead of the February election and roughly 73,200 before the 2011 election.
–––
CHICAGO'S FIRST RUNOFF
–––
WHAT'S AT STAKE
–––
EMANUEL'S CAMPAIGN
Emanuel has tried to convince voters that controversial actions – such as closing dozens of schools in 2013 – were beneficial. But in the process he’s admitted his famously aggressive approach could have been softer. He’s also tried to poke holes in his opponent’s experience.
Emanuel spent Monday shaking hands with the breakfast crowd and calling voters. He told reporters he’s been reminding people of his achievements: lobbying successfully for full-day kindergarten and a higher minimum wage.
–––
GARCIA'S CHALLENGE
Garcia’s message has been that he'll focus on every neighborhood, and he says Emanuel has largely paid attention to the wealthy and businesses. He’s also played on frustrations with schools and violence.
Supporters – including the Rev. Jesse Jackson – rallied Monday in the heavily Mexican Pilsen neighborhood. They blasted Emanuel for not taking down widely criticized red-light cameras, while praising Garcia for meeting with residents over noise complaints near O'Hare International Airport.
–––
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

