Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
11:59AM Wednesday May 27, 2015
21588(0) online now
contact us
Date
Photo: Instagram/ruelarue
It's a scenario that would make many daughters cringe, but Rumer Willis seems to be enjoying the fact that she looks a lot like her mum.
The 26-year-old shared a picture of herself with her famous mother, Demi Moore, on her Instagram account, joking that they could be mistaken for twins.
Moore, 52, and Willis are wearing matching jumpsuits and glasses in the lookalike snap.
Celebrity mums with look-a-like daughters
These celebrity kids are the spitting image of their famous mums. Photo: Instagram/reesewitherspoon
"That moment when you realize you actually are becoming your mother," she jokingly captioned the image, before adding the hashtags "#twinning" and "#imnotmad".
Advertisement
 
May 25, 2015 at 6:08pm PDT
Rumer Willis is Moore's eldest daughter, born during her second marriage to actor Bruce Willis.
She has two sisters, Scout (born 1991) and Tallulah (born 1994).
It has been a big few weeks for Willis.
Last Monday, the actress won the US version of Dancing with the Stars.
She took out the top title in the show's 20th season with professional partner Valentin Chmerkovskiy, performing routines including a foxtrot to Hozier's Take Me to Church and a jazz routine to Destiny Child's Bootylicious.
Speaking in an interview on the show, Moore said she was hesitant about her daughter competing on the reality television program.
"When she said 'I want to do Dancing with the Stars', my whole insides, I have to be honest, were screaming, 'no'," Moore said in an interview aired during the show's semi-final episode.
However, Moore said she came to enjoy watching her daughter perform, and develop her own identity separate from her famous parents.
"One of the most beautiful things I've witnessed is watching her passion become greater than her fear," she said.
"It has nothing to do with her being my kid or Bruce's kid. It has everything to do with just who she is."
Horoscopes
Trust others to think for themselves. Don't be snobbish about what seems obvious. Everyone learns at their own pace, including you.
...find out more here
Top 5 LifeStyle articles
Top 5 LifeStyle articles

