<h4>WSJAsia on Twitter</h4><a href="https://twitter.com/wsjasia" class="twitter-follow-button" data-show-count="true">Follow @wsjasia</a>
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.
http://www.wsj.com/articles/former-port-authority-chairman-david-samson-retires-from-law-firm-1428431368
2
10
Former Port Authority Chairman David Samson Retires From N.J. Law Firm
He is leaving Wolff & Samson, which became a lobbying powerhouse during the Chris Christie administration
By
ENLARGE
David Samson, former chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, at a board meeting in 2014. Photo: Andrew Burton/Getty Images
Mr. Samson, 75 years old, is retiring from Wolff & Samson after 43 years, the firm said Tuesday, in a statement that also announced it would reorganize under new leadership and a new name: Chiesa Shahinian & Giantomasi PC.
The rebranding is a major shift for a firm that has been closely tied to Mr. Christie’s administration and has been drawn by association into the scandals that clouded Mr. Samson’s exit last year from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
The renaming comes as federal prosecutors continue to investigate the actions of state and Port Authority officials, including Mr. Samson, in the probe triggered by the lane closure scandal at the George Washington Bridge.
Earlier
In a statement, Mr. Samson said he was retiring from the law firm for “personal, professional and health reasons.”
“After my five decades practicing law, it was time for new leaders to transition the Firm for the future,” Mr. Samson said.
Mr. Samson has battled prostate cancer and other health issues. Wolff & Samson said Mr. Samson’s retirement was “a bittersweet occasion for the firm-wide family.”
While reorganizing, Wolff & Samson has been bulking up with new talent, including partners as plugged into New Jersey politics—and Mr. Christie’s administration—as Mr. Samson.
The restructured firm will be led by Armen Shahinian, one of its partners for 38 years, and Jeff Chiesa, a former colleague of Mr. Christie in the U.S. attorney’s office who the governor has previously named to both the New Jersey Attorney General’s office and a partial term in the U.S. Senate.
The firm said it has added 29 lawyers, including six partners, over the past two years.
Wolff & Samson’s lobbying business increased during the Christie administration, from less than $50,000 in 2009 to about $1 million in 2013, according to state records. That lobbying business dropped to $640,000 in 2014.
Mr. Chiesa is a close confidante of the governor, advising him on politics and taking several political trips with him outside New Jersey.
Mr. Chiesa didn’t respond to requests for comment.
Mr. Samson once played a role similar to Mr. Chiesa’s, serving as a political mentor to Mr. Christie and chairman of his transition team at the beginning of the governor’s first term.
Mr. Christie named him chairman of the Port Authority, his highest nonexecutive appointment at the agency. There, Mr. Samson could be a fierce defender of turf, both the Port Authority’s—as in its tussles with New York City over control at the World Trade Center site—and Mr. Christie’s.
Ultimately, Mr. Samson became a casualty of what investigators have suggested was political strong-arming gone too far: an apparent effort in 2013 to punish a Democratic mayor on the far side of the George Washington Bridge for not endorsing Mr. Christie by using lane closures to inundate the borough of Fort Lee with traffic.
Subsequent releases of internal communications show that Mr. Samson seethed at what he perceived as efforts by the authority’s New York-appointed executive director, Patrick Foye, to blow the whistle on the lane closures.
Write to Ted Mann at ted.mann@wsj.com
2
10
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved

