Collin DA wants Texas Rangers to investigate Ken Paxton
Updated:
Related
Photo: Michael Ainsworth / Staff Photographer
After two district attorneys backed away from the case, Collin County DA Greg Willis said Thursday that “appropriate investigative agencies, including the Texas Rangers” should handle allegations that Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton violated state securities laws.
Willis said his office received a complaint on Monday “from a political group alleging securities law violations” by Paxton, which he admitted last year. Paxton paid a $1,000 fine and was reprimanded by the Texas State Securities Board for soliciting clients for a friend’s investment firm without being registered with the state.
Paxton solicited the clients in 2004, 2005 and 2012 while serving as a Republican state representative for a Collin County district. The question of criminal violations has yet to be addressed, though Paxton describes it as an administrative error.
“We resolved the issue in the spring,” Paxton told The Dallas Morning News late last year. “They have been saying that [indictment was possible] ever since. That’s something we took care of in the spring.”
A Paxton spokesman repeated Wednesday that no laws had been broken.
“The Texas Rangers have a storied history of professionalism and integrity and we have full confidence in their abilities and acumen,” said Anthony Holm.
But rivals say Paxton admitted he violated the law and should be held accountable for third-degree felonies.
Texans for Public Justice filed a criminal complaint with the Travis County district attorney’s office, but District Attorney Rosemary Lehmberg said her office wasn’t the proper venue, referring the complaint to her peers in Collin and Dallas counties.
Dallas DA Susan Hawk said her office wasn’t the right venue, either.
“At this time, we are not aware of having venue over any alleged crimes committed in Dallas County by Attorney General Ken Paxton,” Hawk said.
That left Willis to consider the case even as a Collin County grand jury decided to pursue it and sent a letter to Travis County asking for its investigative file on Paxton that the LawFlog blog posted on Tuesday.
“Collin County appears to be the venue where the evidence needs to be heard,” the letter stated. “Therefore, we are requesting the documents be sent to us as soon as possible.”
That development brought a quick jab from Democratic strategist Matt Angle.
“A citizen grand jury acting on its own to force an investigation of Ken Paxton’s crimes is a damning commentary on both Collin County DA Greg Willis and Dallas County DA Susan Hawk,” Angle said. “They’ve shown neither the integrity nor the competence to enforce the law when the violator is a high-ranking Republican official.”
He noted that Paxton voted for the legislation he later admitted violating, making it clear that such cases should be prosecuted as felonies.
Earlier this week, Texans for Public Justice asked Willis to recuse himself in favor of a special prosecutor because of what the group described as his long friendship and business relationship with Paxton.
But Willis said he believed the allegations should go to the proper state agency, “professionals whose job is investigating crimes.”
“This way, the law enforcement agency vets the case,” Willis said in the statement. “They take sworn statements of people with first-hand knowledge. They interview witnesses and gather evidence, and follow up on leads.
“And once they finish investigating, they decide either to swear out a probable cause affidavit or simply refer the case, along with the sworn statements, tangible evidence and a written police report to our office.
“This is what we call a ‘case.’”
myoung@dallasnews.com;
gjeffers@dallasnews.com
Plan a fun weekend
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

