Published April 10, 2015
Hillary Clinton reportedly will kick off her long-expected 2016 presidential campaign on Sunday.
The Guardian, citing a source familiar with the campaign, reported early Friday that Clinton is scheduled to declare her candidacy through Twitter at noon Sunday. The tweet will be followed by a video and e-mail announcement, then a series of conference calls announcing her tour, which starts in Iowa.
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Clinton would be the first Democratic candidate to confirm a run for the White House and she is considered to be the clear frontrunner to win the party’s nomination.
On Monday, Clinton’s political team – from senior advisers to state operatives – was put on alert for a presidential campaign announcement. The former Secretary of State is expected to do small campaign events in the coming weeks across key early states like Iowa and New Hampshire.
A Democratic official told Fox News that Clinton’s approach in next year’s election will illustrate that as a presidential candidate “she fights for every vote and takes nothing for granted". This would be in sharp contrast to her failed 2008 run, when she was considered the inevitable Democratic presidential nominee but failed to see the burgeoning rival campaign of now-President Barack Obama.
The plan in 2016 is to have Clinton try to “connect with real people” better than she did eight years ago, according to a Democratic official with knowledge the announcement plans and strategy.
Clinton started the campaign clock ticking last week when her team signed a lease for a massive new campaign headquarters at Pierrepont Plaza in Brooklyn, New York that occupies at least two floors. The campaign has at least 35 staffers in New York City alone.
That action by Team Clinton means that by FEC rules, she has 15 days since the signing of the lease to file the paperwork officially for a 2016 presidential run because her expenditure on the lease was purportedly over $5,000.
The Clinton campaign also continues to scoop up key campaign operatives, with both Karen Finney and Oren Shur recently joining her VIP team. Finney will work as strategic communications adviser, and Shur as director of paid media, according to a Clinton spokesperson.
Advertisement

