Obama: Malia’s asthma attack made climate change personal
President Obama and Malia Obama arrive at Air Force One at Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, Ala. (Associated Press) **FILE** more >
By Jessica Chasmar -      The Washington Times -                                    Wednesday, April 8, 2015
President Obama says climate change first became a personal issue for him when his 16-year-old daughter was rushed to the hospital 12 years ago after suffering from an asthma attack.
“What I can relate to is the fear a parent has, when your 4-year-old daughter comes up to you and says, ‘Daddy, I’m having trouble breathing.’ The fright you feel is terrible,” the president told ABC News in an interview broadcast Wednesday.
“And if we can make sure that our responses to the environment are reducing those incidents, that’s something that I think every parent would wish for,” Mr. Obama said. “And the good news is there are concrete steps we can take to do something about it.”
The White House announced this week a series of initiatives to deal with the impact of climate change on public health, including the upcoming White House Climate Change and Health Summit, ABC News reported.
“I think we’ve always known — or at least in the 20th century we’ve understood — that environment has an impact on public health,” the president said Tuesday   during an open table discussion at Howard University.
“I remember when I first went to college in Los Angeles in 1979, the air was so bad that you couldn’t go running outside,” Mr. Obama said. “You’d have air quality alerts, and people who had respiratory problems or were vulnerable had to stay inside. We took action, and the air’s a lot better.”
Shares
Question of the Day
Is President Obama right that a nuke deal with Iran will make U.S. safer?
Question of the Day
Jessica Chasmar is a continuous news writer for The Washington Times, covering topics on culture and politics. Originally from Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., Jessica graduated from the University of Florida where she received a bachelor’s degree in journalism and a master’s degree in mass communication.
During her time at University of Florida, she worked as an associate editor for The ...

