10 Things to Know for Today - KTVN Channel 2 - Reno Tahoe News Weather, Video -
Strong storms in the Southern Plains overnight are offering a preview of bad weather expected in major cities across the Midwest later in the day. More >>
Strong storms rumbled through the Southern Plains early Thursday, missing major population centers but offering a preview of bad weather that could hit Chicago, Detroit and other big cities in the Midwest later in the day. More >>
Repeated natural-gas accidents - including a pipeline explosion that killed eight people - suggest that Pacific Gas & Electric Co., California's largest power utility, may be too big to operate safely, the... More >>
Utah's governor and a Latino community advocate called for answers Wednesday in a prison inmate's death that occurred after dialysis providers failed to show up for his treatment. More >>
Utah's governor called for answers in the death of an inmate whose dialysis providers failed to show up for treatment. More >>
Authorities who say they reviewed dramatic video that appears to show a white South Carolina police officer shooting a fleeing black man have filed a murder charge against the officer. More >>
An eyewitness whose cellphone video put a South Carolina police officer in jail on a murder charge said Wednesday that he did not hear the white officer give any warning before he fired eight times at the back of a black... More >>
Now that a jury has convicted Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev (joh-HAHR' tsahr-NEYE'-ehv), the same 12 people will decide whether he lives or dies. More >>
   
   
By   The Associated Press
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
1. NEW REVELATIONS IN SOUTH CAROLINA FATAL SHOOTING CASE
The officer charged with murder of Walter Lamer Scott was allowed to stay on the force despite an earlier complaint he used excessive force against an unarmed man.
2. WHAT WILL TOP OBAMA'S AGENDA IN JAMAICA VISIT
The president is opening a trip to the Caribbean and Central America, where he hopes to capitalize on mutual needs in the face of expanding Chinese influence and weakening power by Venezuela.
3. IRAN PUSHES WEST TO LIFT SANCTIONS
President Hassan Rouhani is warning that Tehran will not sign on to a final nuclear deal unless it is predicated on the reversal of economic restrictions.
4. AFTER TSARNAEV'S CONVICTION, JURY TO DECIDE LIFE OR DEATH
"In a crime of this magnitude, what American citizen wouldn't ask, 'What would drive a person to do this?' And, as a juror, the question becomes, what answer would satisfy you," says Meg Penrose, a death penalty expert.
5. WHO IS SET TO BECOME THIRD MAJOR PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
If he runs for president as expected, Sen. Marco Rubio will have a political committee ready to raise and spend unlimited cash on his behalf.
6. DEADLIEST PEACE-TIME COUNTRY IN THE WORLD
El Salvador had more homicides in March than any other single month in a decade, a dark moment that some attribute to the collapse of a gang truce.
7. NORTH KOREA EXPLORES WAYS TO DECLAW NEW U.S. SANCTIONS
Pyongyang says it will conduct trade in rubles with Moscow if Congress passes a bill designed to shut off the regime from the U.S. dollar.
8. TIBET CHIEF DEMANDS MONASTERIES DISPLAY CHINESE FLAGS
The move is intended to shore up patriotic drive that in the past has sparked protests in the restive Buddhist region.
9. HOW SAMSUNG WANTS TO REVERSE DIMMING FORTUNES
The company is hoping the flagship Galaxy S6 smartphone and the S6 Edge, which go on sale in 20 countries on Friday, will help claw back lost market share.
10. EYES ON MCILROY, WOODS AS THE MASTERS GETS UNDERWAY
But let's not forget the other potential contenders, a lengthy list led by defending champion Bubba Watson.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Most Popular StoriesMost Popular Stories More>>
Wednesday, April 8 2015 9:47 PM EDT2015-04-09 01:47:47 GMT
Governor Brian Sandoval has signed an executive order establishing the Nevada Drought Forum to address the state's ongoing drought issues. He made the announcement Wednesday afternoon in Washoe Lake State Park in Washoe Valley. More >>
Governor Brian Sandoval has signed an executive order establishing the Nevada Drought Forum to address the state's ongoing drought issues. He made the announcement Wednesday afternoon in Washoe Lake State Park in Washoe Valley. More >>
Wednesday, April 8 2015 7:00 PM EDT2015-04-08 23:00:38 GMT
Reno Police officers need your help finding a man and woman suspected of stealing checks from a home earlier this year. More >>
Reno Police officers need your help finding a man and woman suspected of stealing checks from a home earlier this year. More >>
Tuesday, April 7 2015 5:05 PM EDT2015-04-07 21:05:02 GMT
There's buyer frenzy in our housing market. Prices are up, inventory is down, and real estate agents are trying to keep up. More >>
There's buyer frenzy in our housing market. Prices are up, inventory is down, and real estate agents are trying to keep up. More >>
Wednesday, April 8 2015 8:00 PM EDT2015-04-09 00:00:09 GMT
Two Republican assemblywomen are proposing a bill overhauling class size reduction in Nevada and launching a program to pay the top teachers up to $200,000 a year. More >>
Two Republican assemblywomen are proposing a bill overhauling class size reduction in Nevada and launching a program to pay the top teachers up to $200,000 a year. More >>
Wednesday, April 8 2015 9:47 PM EDT2015-04-09 01:47:27 GMT
   
4925 Energy Way
Reno, NV 89502

