Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Clinton’s extensive Michigan network cited, including ties to Granholm
Post to Facebook
Mich. Dems say they’ll help Clinton win nomination Clinton’s extensive Michigan network cited, including ties to Granholm Check out this story on detroitnews.com: http://detne.ws/1ynBw8t
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Mich. Dems say they’ll help Clinton win nomination
Chad Livengood and Gary Heinlein, Detroit News Lansing Bureau 4:31 p.m. EDT April 12, 2015
Hillary Clinton officially launched her 2016 presidential campaign Sunday
(Photo: Win McNamee / Getty Images)
Lansing — Hillary Clinton’s two-plus decades in the national spotlight as first lady, a U.S. senator, presidential candidate and secretary of state makes her best positioned to capture the Democratic Party nomination in 2016 with the help of Michigan Democrats and independents, party insiders say.
“She has an extensive network in Michigan that supported her in 2008 and is ready to support her again,” said Mark Brewer, former chairman of the Michigan Democratic Party. “Democrats are ready for Hillary, to borrow a phrase.”
In 2013, Clinton backers formed a super political action committee called Ready for Hillary, raising $12.9 million from donors to develop a network of supporters for a 2016 presidential campaign.
Jill Alper, a Grosse Pointe-based Democratic consultant, worked on Bill Clinton’s 1992 and 1996 campaigns and Hillary Clinton’s 2008 campaign.
This time around, Alper said she believes Hillary Clinton will offer voters a “forward looking message about the future” that focuses on strengthening economic opportunities for ordinary Americans.
“She comes into this campaign with additional life experiences,” said Alper, noting Clinton became a grandmother last year. “Having traveled the world, her ideas about how to accomplish that as a leader on the world stage have only deepened.”
Former Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm, who now lives and works in California, has been a senior adviser to the Ready for Hillary PAC, actively encouraging Clinton to run again, said Democratic consultant Howard Edelson.
Granholm also is co-chair of Priorities USA Action, a big-dollar super PAC that’s  expected to assist Clinton’s bid for the job her husband, Bill Clinton, had from 1993 to 2001.
In 2006, Clinton campaigned in Michigan and raised money for Granholm’s 2006 re-election battle against Republican Dick DeVos, Edelson said.
“She’s been working Michigan for many, many years, so she’s very well positioned not only for Democrats … but I think she’s going to do very well with Michigan independents too,” said Edelson, who was Granholm’s 2006 campaign manager.
While Clinton is the odds-on favorite to win the Democratic nomination, other Democrats are testing the presidential waters. Former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley has been traveling to early primary states in recent months, while former Virginia Sen. Jim Webb and former Rhode Island Gov. Lincoln Chafee have launched presidential exploratory committees.
Vice President Joe Biden also hasn’t ruled out another run for the White House after failed campaigns in 1988 and 2008.
To avoid a serious primary challenge, Clinton has to lay out her agenda for taking on the Republican nominee and defend her record as a U.S. senator and Obama’s chief diplomat, Brewer said.
“I think she needs to demonstrate that she wants this, that she’s not taking it for granted,” Brewer said.
There also remains a grassroots campaign within the Democratic Party to draft Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren to enter the race and challenge Clinton on her perceived coziness with Wall Street bankers and foreign policy record, which includes voting as a U.S. senator to authorize former President George W. Bush to go to war in Iraq.
Past favorite
In 2008, Clinton arguably won Michigan’s presidential primary by default after Obama, Biden, former Sen. John Edwards and former New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson took their names off the ballot because the Jan. 15 nominating contest was being held early in violation of Democratic National Committee rules.
Former Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich unsuccessfully sought to remove his name from the ballot. Clinton decided to keep her name on the ballot but pledged not to campaign in Michigan.
Clinton won 55 percent of the primary vote, while 40 percent of voters marked down an unusual option of “uncommitted” on the ballot.
“That really enabled her to have a free run here,” Edelson said.
But exit polling showed Clinton would have still prevailed over Obama and Edwards had their names been on the ballot, Edelson said.
Last fall, Clinton was in Michigan to round up votes for now-U.S. Sen. Gary Peters of Bloomfield Township and gubernatorial candidate Mark Schauer. She spoke at Oakland University on Oct. 16 as she campaigned for Democratic candidates in Illinois, Colorado, Nevada and Kentucky.
“When she was here last fall, people really were energized,” said Frank Houston, chairman of the Oakland County Democratic Party. “It remains to be seen how people will feel about established voices versus new candidates. In my view and from what I hear, people are looking for experienced, credible leaders who get things done.”
Challenges ahead
Republicans running seeking their party’s nomination and outside groups have made blocking Clinton’s pathway to the White House the cornerstone of their 2016 campaign plans.
A super PAC called Stop Hillary is already highlighting Clinton’s recent woes over her private email server as Obama’s secretary of state and the foundation Bill Clinton formed that accepts foreign donations. Hillary Clinton has reportedly been moving to cut ties to the Clinton Foundation.
“She’s not a transparent leader. She can’t be trusted,” said Matt Chisholm, spokesman for the Stop Hillary PAC. “There’s a long way to go for Hillary and a lot of tough truths out there that she hasn’t faced yet.”
Houston believes any candidate “fatigue” among voters at the prospect of another Clinton campaign is outweighed by the watershed nature of a potential Hillary Clinton presidential win.
“When you have perhaps the most-credible woman candidate in American history running for president, that’s exciting,” Houston said. “Even my young children see something powerful about having a woman holding the most influential position in our country.”
Houston said it’s debatable how soon a candidate should declare for the presidency but under current circumstances it’s good for Clinton to jump in now. “Let’s be honest, when you’re looking at billion-dollar campaigns, and God knows how much money is going to be spent against our nominee,” he said.
Bob Kolt, a Democratic media strategist in Okemos, said it was “weird” for Clinton to announce her campaign on a Sunday, but further evidence she does things her own way.
“The timing seems right,” Kolt said. “People were waiting. I don’t think she’d have been able to wait much longer.”
Kolt said  Democratic challengers now will have to step up before the end of May: “You really can’t give Hillary any more of a head start than that, considering how popular she is.”
Staff Writer Melissa Nann Burke contributed.
Several Democrats in Michigan’s congressional delegation are supporting Hillary Clinton, including Sen. Debbie Stabenow of Lansing and Reps. Sander Levin of Royal Oak, Dan Kildee of Flint and Brenda Lawrence of Southfield.

