Haberkip TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — If Marco Rubio fulfills expectations and announces Monday that he is operating for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination and not re-election to the Senate, Florida's chief economic officer and a Democratic congressman will...
AP News - Rubio presidential run will start scramble to fill his seat
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — If Marco Rubio fulfills expectations and announces Monday that he is operating for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination and not re-election to the Senate, Florida's chief economic officer and a Democratic congressman will...
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — If Marco Rubio fulfills expectations and announces Monday that he is operating for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination and not re-election to the Senate, Florida's chief economic officer and a Democratic congressman will come to be the major candidates to replace him.
Republican CFO Jeff Atwater would be the instant favorite to replace Rubio following dominant wins in two statewide campaigns. Democratic U.S. Rep. Patrick Murphy is not practically as well-recognized. But he is observed as a moderate who can win crossover votes after defeating incumbent Republican Rep. Allen West in 2012 despite West's massive fundraising and national tea celebration help.
The race could be an chance for Democrats to choose up a seat as the celebration has a history of doing superior in Florida for the duration of presidential years. President Barack Obama carried the state in 2008 and 2012, but Republicans won the governor's race and most other statewide races in 1998, 2002, 2006, 2010 and 2014. Democrats hold a 39 percent to 35 % benefit in voter registration over Republicans.
"Florida is a different state in a presidential and a non-presidential year," stated Democratic pollster David Beattie. "Regardless of who's on prime of the ticket, turnout goes up. Becoming on the ballot on a presidential year is much better for the Democrat."
Murphy, 32, whose district consists of parts of Palm Beach County, didn't wait until Rubio's announcement to get in the race. He says he is not concerned about a possible major or potentially facing a greater-known Republican.
"The problems that I assistance and my stances reduce across the political spectrum," said Murphy, adding that he's robust on fiscal difficulties and supports maintaining abortion legal and escalating the minimum wage. "In our final election we have been humbled to have a powerful victory in a district that Mitt Romney ended up winning by a couple of percentage points."
Democrat Sen. Bob Graham held the seat from 1987 until he retired in 2005. It was then won by Republican Mel Martinez, who left office just before finishing the term. Then-Gov. Charlie Crist appointed Republican George LeMieux to finish the term. Crist then ran for the seat himself, initial as a Republican and then as an independent. He lost to Rubio, who says he won't seek re-election if he gets in the presidential race even even though he could — the deadline for getting into the Senate race is May possibly six, 2016, just after the presidential nomination will probably be decided.
Democratic U.S. Rep. Alan Grayson of Orlando is another attainable candidate, but numerous see him as also liberal and as well inflammatory to win statewide. He recently had a messy divorce trial where he accused his wife of bigamy ahead of they agreed to an annulment. Some Democrats are advising him not to run.
Atwater, 57, hasn't officially entered the race and won't till following Rubio tends to make his announcement on Monday in Miami. Nevertheless, a political committee has already been formed to help him, and he is calling supporters to let them know he is preparing to run.
Atwater could face a primary challenge from U.S. Rep. Ron DeSantis and Lt. Gov. Carlos Lopez-Cantera. One plus for DeSantis, who represents a district that involves Daytona Beach and St. Augustine, is that he would be able to transfer about $1 million from a Home campaign account to a Senate campaign.
"You expect other people today to be interested in a race this size," stated Republican political consultant Rick Wilson, who is advising Atwater. "It's a challenge that people who have not run statewide prior to underestimate."
Atwater is the only candidate contemplating a run to have won a statewide race on his own. He's a former bank president who served as state Senate president ahead of becoming elected CFO in 2010, a race he won with 57.3 percent of the vote — a larger margin than Gov. Rick Scott, Rubio or the other two Cabinet members on the ballot that year. But he's also under no circumstances faced a primary opponent in a statewide race.
While Lopez-Cantera also won statewide workplace, he did so as Scott's operating mate and he isn't as well known to Floridians. It would not support, either, that Scott's unfavorable ratings have been higher given that the day he took workplace in 2011. Scott is the only Florida governor to win office twice without having getting a majority of the votes cast.
Ad Soyad:
 
UYARI: Küfür, hakaret, rencide edici cümleler veya imalar, inançlara saldırı içeren, imla kuralları ile yazılmamış, Türkçe karakter kullanılmayan ve tamamı büyük harflerle yazılmış yorumlar onaylanmamaktadır. Ayrıca suç teşkil edecek hakaret içerikli yorumlar hakkında muhatapları tarafından dava açılabilmektedir.
Breaking News Headlines
Related Breaking News

