House panel OKs ban on powdered alcohol
Mark Phillips pours a powdered vodka that he developed into a cup at his apartment in Scottsdale, Ariz., April 2, 2015.
NYT
Last Modified: Tuesday, April 7, 2015 at 7:31 p.m.
TALLAHASSEE — The federal government recently approved a new powdered form of alcohol – but a number of states, including Florida, are taking steps to block its sale.
Approved on March 10 by the federal Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, the powdered alcohol, known as Palcohol, is expected to hit the market this summer. It is manufactured by Lipsmark, an Arizona company.
The company says consumers can take a one-ounce packet of powdered rum, vodka or a drink mix, like a Cosmopolitan, and add it to 6 ounces of water to produce a drink, which has an alcohol volume of about 10 percent.
Facing an outcry that the powder could be abused, particularly by minors, Florida legislators hope to make a pre-emptive strike before it goes on sale.
The House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday approved a ban (HB 1247) on selling powdered alcohol. On Thursday, the Senate Rules Committee will take up a measure (SB 998) prohibiting the sale of powdered alcohol or its possession.
If the bills become law, Florida would join at least six states that have already banned the product, with other states considering similar legislation, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Two states, Delaware and Michigan, have decided to regulate powdered alcohol like other alcoholic products.
U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., has introduced federal legislation to make the production, sale and possession of powdered alcohol illegal.
Critics contend the powdered alcohol could lead to abuses, alleging it would be easier to smuggle into venues, like college sports stadiums.
“We feel we already have an underage drinking problem in the state,” Ellen Snelling, chair of the Florida Coalition for Alcohol Policy told the Senate Commerce and Tourism Committee, before the panel unanimously backed the legislation last month.
“With this type of product, the only way we can see it being used is to be abused, especially by young people,” Snelling said, adding the packets “could be easily hidden.”
Snelling said her organization was in favor of an outright ban rather than trying to regulate the product.
Facing an onslaught of national opposition, Lipsmark has pushed back, arguing on its website that Palcohol could be a popular and convenient product for outdoor enthusiasts and travelers who do not want to carry larger volumes of liquid alcohol.
The company also disputes that the packets would be readily available to children, since the product would be sold like other alcohol to residents who are 21 years or older.
“No one wants the government telling us what we can drink and not drink. We don't need a nanny,” Lipsmark said. “The Legislature exists to protect our rights to live how we choose, not to use coercive power to force their values on us.”
The company also noted all the potential problems with the product were just “speculation,” since Palcohol has yet to be sold anywhere in the country.
Nonetheless, the critics have the upper hand thus far in the 2015 Legislature.
“We have so many problems in our states with the other abuses of drugs. This powdered alcohol has a very large potential for abuse,” said Rep. Lori Berman, D-Lantana, one of the sponsors of the House bill. “People can be snorting it. People can be bringing it into places.”
However, Berman and other supporters agreed on Tuesday to add a new provision to the bill that would establish a moratorium on selling the new product in the state until at least July 2016 -- when lawmakers could decide whether to extend the ban.
She also said it was likely the ban would be extended further than 2016 as the bill moves forward.
But she said providing a moratorium, which would be automatically lifted if lawmakers do not re-enact it, would give the state a chance to “see how the product works so there isn't abuse and we're not bringing a product into the state that is subject to abuse.”
The moratorium provision adds another major difference between the House and Senate bills that will have to be worked out in the remaining weeks of the session.
Another difference is that the Senate bill bans both the sale and possession of powdered alcohol -- although possession would result in a noncriminal $250 fine -- while the House bill only bans the sale of the product.
Both bills would make the sale of powdered alcohol a misdemeanor, although the violation would become a third-degree felony if another violation was committed within a five-year period.
Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.

