By RANDAL BERRY Special to the Democrat-Gazette
This article was published today at 1:51 a.m.
Seconds before dramatically declaring Sic Semper Tyrannis, actor John Wilkes Booth murdered Abraham Lincoln, the 16th president of the United States, while Lincoln was taking in a play at Ford's Theatre in downtown Washington, D.C., as the Civil War was ending.
Sic Semper Tyrannis (Latin for thus always to tyrants) was also the motto of the state of Virginia. Booth, a talented and popular actor north of the Mason-Dixon Line, considered Lincoln a tyrant.
The Civil War, or the War Between the States, had wound down only five days earlier that fateful evening of April 14, 1865.
During his tenure, Abraham Lincoln faced the most monstrous national crisis of any U.S. president to date, and probably since. He hated war that assured death and destruction. However, he accepted war as the only means of saving the Union. Admonishing the South in his first inaugural address on March 4, 1861, he asserted: "In your hands, my dissatisfied fellow countrymen, and not in mine, is the momentous issue of civil war. The government will not assail you ... You have no oath registered in Heaven to destroy the government, while I shall have the most solemn one to preserve, protect and defend it."
An hour after the assassination, Washington City, as it was known then, was in a state of flummox. Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton summoned every resource he had in his power to apprehend the assailant of Lincoln. Approximately the same time as Lincoln's murder, a mere few blocks away, carnage was wreaked at Secretary of State William H. Seward's residence. Seward, bedridden from a carriage accident only nine days earlier, was brutally assaulted with a dagger by a co-conspirator of Booth. Seward miraculously survived the attack.
Citizens were in a state of panic that night as news quickly spread about the assassination of Lincoln and the attempt on Seward's life. What was going on? Were all of Lincoln's cabinet members' lives at stake? Was this some massive conspiracy to gut the government by Confederate vigilantes? Protection of the cabinet was quickly ordered by Stanton. Guards were assigned to Vice President Andrew Johnson, who was awakened and told of the earlier events at the hotel he was staying at in downtown Washington. There was no Secret Service protection of the president at that time.
The Secret Service officially began July 5, 1865, two days before punishment was meted out for those involved in the plot to kill Lincoln. Its duties at that period were to suppress counterfeit money. It wasn't until 36 years later that Congress requested the Secret Service take on full protection of the president in the wake of President William McKinley's assassination earlier that year.
John Wilkes Booth fled on horseback to southern Virginia and was on the lam for 12 days before being confronted in a tobacco barn near Port Royal, Virginia. After being given a chance to surrender and return to Washington City for trial, Booth was shot to death. He knew he faced certain death on the gallows, and it was beneath his dignity to die that way. He was an actor by trade; he wanted to leave the world dramatically. After taunting the troops that surrounded the barn, Booth got his wish.
Many suspects in Lincoln's murder were rounded up. Almost any known local secessionist was held and questioned by the government. At the conclusion of his investigation a few weeks later, War Secretary Stanton determined that there were eight conspirators involved in the President's death.
A trial for "The Murder of The President and the Attempt to Overthrow the Government by the Assassination of its Principal Officers" began on May 1, 1865. Four core conspirators were found guilty by a military tribunal and hanged on July 7, 1865. Mary Surratt, the first woman executed by the federal government, was named among the conspirators.
Lincoln today is best remembered for his Emancipation Proclamation address in 1863, his reputation for being honest and forthright, and his desire to heal the war-torn nation. His image adorns coinage, paper currency, stamps, statues, and memorials, and an astounding 15,000 books have been published about him.
This week marks the 150th anniversary of his death, which we still mourn. But next week and forever, we will continue to keep his legacy alive.
Randal Berry of Little Rock is webmaster of Lincoln-assassination.com.
Editorial on 04/12/2015
Comments on: The enduring legacy of Lincoln
To report abuse or misuse of this area please hit the "Suggest Removal" link in the comment to alert our online managers. Read our Terms of Use policy.
You must login to make comments.
HAMMOND, LA
BEEBE, AR
Real Estate
All rights reserved.
This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc.
Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2015, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.
We hope you've enjoyed your preview of ArkansasOnline.com
You've now read the maximum number of stories available without a subscription.
Subscribe now for complete and uninterrupted access to the best local, state and national news.
Already have an account?  
Already a print subscriber?  

