Caption Voting Day
Tribune photos
Voters will head to the polls for the first-ever mayoral runoff election between Mayor Rahm Emanuel and challenger Jesus "Chuy" Garcia.
Voters will head to the polls for the first-ever mayoral runoff election between Mayor Rahm Emanuel and challenger Jesus "Chuy" Garcia. (Tribune photos)
Chuck Berman, Chicago Tribune/ 2010
As voting day approaches, Chicagoans may wonder why they can't yet vote from the palms of their hands.
As voting day approaches, Chicagoans may wonder why they can't yet vote from the palms of their hands. (Chuck Berman, Chicago Tribune/ 2010)
Scott Olson, Getty Images/ Feb. 24, 2015
The need to keep the user's identity secret makes filing ballots different from other secure online transactions.
The need to keep the user's identity secret makes filing ballots different from other secure online transactions. (Scott Olson, Getty Images/ Feb. 24, 2015)
Jose M. Osorio, Chicago Tribune/ Feb. 24, 2015
Another potential issue with remote voting: a person could be subject to coercion not visible to election judges.
Another potential issue with remote voting: a person could be subject to coercion not visible to election judges. (Jose M. Osorio, Chicago Tribune/ Feb. 24, 2015)
Jose M. Osorio, Chicago Tribune/ Feb. 24, 2015
No online voting system exists that is secure enough and able to comply with the state's requirement that elections have a paper trail, said Chicago Board of Election Commissioners spokesman Jim Allen.
No online voting system exists that is secure enough and able to comply with the state's requirement that elections have a paper trail, said Chicago Board of Election Commissioners spokesman Jim Allen. (Jose M. Osorio, Chicago Tribune/ Feb. 24, 2015)
Vote early and often? This is part of why you can't vote by phone
A touchscreen voting machine that plays Pac-Man
As Chicagoans trek to the polls Tuesday for the city's first-ever mayoral runoff election, some may wonder why they can't yet vote from the palms of their hands.
“For me the biggest benefit of online voting would be convenience,” said K.C. Horne, a 26-year-old accountant from Edgewater. “If I can file my taxes from my phone, I should be able to vote from my phone.”
But so far, both technological and legislative hurdles have sharply limited the use of online voting. One major difference: The need to keep the user's identity secret makes filing ballots different from other secure online transactions. 
“It’s an unconventional transaction where you have to be able to do business with me, but I can’t know exactly what you’re buying,” said Chicago Board of Election Commissioners spokesman Jim Allen. 
Another potential issue with remote voting: a person could be subject to coercion not visible to election judges.  
Allen noted that technology has made a mark with online voter registration, online absentee applications and electronic poll books. But he said no online voting system exists that is secure enough and able to comply with the state’s requirement that elections have a paper trail.
“When it comes to actually casting a ballot, the security issues are so vast and the consequences are so grave that right now there is no viable system out there," Allen said.
Lori Steele Contorer, CEO of San Diego-based Everyone Counts, anticipates growth. So far her company has offered remote, online voting in small elections or among limited populations. 
“Online [voting] isn’t really the future, it’s actually the present,” Contorer said.
Her company sells voting software as a service for public and private elections, allowing election boards to administer ballots at polling places using tablets or remotely through web browsers. The system authenticates remote voters with identifiers such as parts of a Social Security Number or biometric scans. When ballots are recorded, they’re encrypted in a way that strips away the voter’s identity.
The City of Chicago and Cook County use Everyone Counts to administer ballots to military and overseas absentee voters. Rather than mailing a ballot, the form is accessed and marked online, then printed and returned by mail.
Contorer said digital delivery cuts the time it takes ballots to reach overseas voters. Halderman said that system makes sense, since it allows them to be returned in a way that’s less susceptible to tampering or hacking en masse.
J. Alex Halderman, an assistant professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Michigan, researches and identifies security flaws in voting technology and does not anticipate wide adoption soon.
“The shape of the problem is fundamentally different than things we routinely do online today,” he said. 
Halderman pointed to his own hacking of Washington D.C.’s online voting pilot in 2010. Within 48 hours, Halderman and his team remotely exploited a flaw in the public test held prior to the election. It took officials another two days to figure out the hack had happened.
That all but put an end to that online voting plan, though voters could still mail in printed ballots, the New York Times reported . 
High-profile elections to decide Chicago’s next mayor or the country’s next president would likely be more vulnerable to sophisticated attacks, potentially by global perpetrators, than the smaller elections Everyone Counts has been used for, Halderman said.
“I think in order to do online voting securely, they’re going to have to solve some of the hardest problems in computer security,” Halderman said.
He estimates it will take decades for researchers to build systems that can be as secret and secure as in-person polls. He draws lessons from the failed touchscreen machines sold after the hanging-chads debacle of the 2000 presidential election. 
Those touchscreen machines turned out to be easily hackable, he said, and now there’s one in his office  that plays Pac-Man.

