Posted: April 11, 2015 - 10:51pm
tia.mitchell@jacksonville.com
TALLAHASSEE — If Florida doesn’t find a way to continue a program that helps hospitals treat uninsured patients, UF Health Jacksonville could cease to exist, its administrators and community supporters say.
The hospital receives $95 million in so-called federal Low Income Pool money, a program that helps hospitals and health clinics pay for the services they provide to uninsured or under-insured patients. Without that money, roughly 20 percent of its annual budget, UF Health Jacksonville would run out of cash in six months and could face higher interest rates and problems with creditors, chief executive Russell Armistead said.
Baptist Health president and CEO Hugh Greene said Jacksonville’s other hospitals lack back the beds and emergency capacity to make up for the loss, evoking an image of M*A*S*H-like tents set up outside emergency rooms to handle the overflow.
John Delaney, University of North Florida president and chairman of JAX Chamber, said quality doctors would transfer to hospitals in other cities and more than 5,000 people could lose their jobs. “Someone is going to die,” he said.
So where is the panic among elected officials in Tallahassee?
There isn’t any. Not yet.
Members of the House and Senate both say they are optimistic a solution can be reached.
UF Health Jacksonville treats more than 4,000 patients a year through its trauma center, the only place in the region that people with the most severe injuries can receive treatment. The hospital reported last year 602,602 patients arrived via ambulance, nearly 90,000 people came through the emergency room and 2,865 births occurred in the facility.
The impact goes beyond the hospital, its patients and employees.
If the hospital closes, patients would be spread throughout the other hospitals in the region, not only lengthening wait times and competition for beds but also increasing those hospitals’ share of Medicaid patients and the lower reimbursements that come with them.
Contrary to Gov. Rick Scott’s recent negative outlook on the current funding impasse, most lawmakers believe Florida and the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services continue to negotiate in good faith to renew LIP past its June expiration date.
They believe an agreement will be worked out, though they admit it might not come in enough time to finalize the state budget by May 1 when the legislative session is scheduled to end.
No one knows what the revised version of LIP will look like and whether the money coming to Florida may decrease from the currently allocated $2.2 billion.
That is what worries Armistead.
Of the state’s 14 safety net hospitals, those that shoulder the bulk of charity health care and Medicaid costs, Armistead said UF Health Jacksonville is among the best run but also among the most cash-strapped.
Florida counties support local hospitals in a variety of ways. Broward County’s hospital taxing districts collect nearly $164 million in taxes to supplement hospital care, and Miami-Dade’s Jackson Memorial Hospital gets $228 million from a half-penny sales tax.
In comparison, Jacksonville writes a check: $26 million this year. There are no plans to boost that amount.
Delaney thinks nearby counties, like Clay and Nassau, should pitch in because UF Health Jacksonville has the region’s trauma center. There aren’t plans for that either.
The state sends these local dollars to Washington, where the complicated LIP formula allows the money to multiple and come back to be shared by hospitals and health clinics statewide. That is how UF Health Jacksonville’s share increases to $95 million.
“If I lose some part of that money, I am losing money,” Armistead said. “So the LIP program is critical to us.”
Lawmakers have started to play the blame game on why the state has yet to work out an agreement.
The state has known since April 2014 that the LIP program would expire June 30 unless Florida worked out substantial changes to address Washington’s concerns about where the money comes from and how it is allocated.
Florida has swapped ideas back and forth with the feds, but there is still no official state proposal in the form of an amendment or extension to the Medicaid waiver that authorizes the LIP program.
“It would be premature to submit a final amendment at this point in negotiations with CMS,” said Katherine Riviere, a spokeswoman for Agency for Health Care Administration Secretary Liz Dudek, in an email.
Earlier this month, Dudek put out a statement saying the federal government had suddenly walked away from its talks with Florida for two weeks. “For CMS to discontinue LIP negotiations now is troubling and could signal the abrupt end of this federal health care program in Florida,” she said.
The next day, it came to light that the chief CMS negotiator was on a pre-planned international vacation, scheduled to coincide with the Passover holiday. The federal government said it is still communicating with Florida and open to any ideas the state has.
Still, Gov. Rick Scott blasted the federal government for being disingenuous about wanting to collaborate. He said inaction on LIP caused him to change his mind on supporting Medicaid expansion.
The timing seemed unusual since two Senate Republicans had just returned from their own trip to Washington with a glowing evaluation of relations with CMS.
Sens. Garrett Richter, R-Naples, and Rene Garcia, R-Hialeah, were pushing the Senate’s own proposal to keep LIP going.
Some House Republicans did not approve, saying the pair should have left talks up to the governor’s office.
“I think that when you negotiate, you negotiate through one person and not multiple people,” House Speaker Steve Crisafulli said last week. “And I think it’s probably confused the process and weakened the conversations that were taking place at earlier times with the governor’s office.”
Senate President Andy Gardiner, and Orlando Republican who is vice president of a safety net hospital, said his colleagues weren’t trying to insert themselves into LIP negotiations but rather went to the source to get a better understanding of where talks stand.
“People want to try to point fingers; the reality is again we’ve known this for a year,” he said.
Although LIP and Medicaid expansion are two separate topics, one affects the other.
Medicaid expansion would get more Floridians health coverage, meaning there would be fewer uninsured people showing up in hospital ERs and health clinics. That would mean less need for LIP.
One wouldn’t completely replace the need for the other, Armistead said.
He expects UF Health Jacksonville to receive $30 million to $35 million if Medicaid expansion is approved in Florida, a long shot this year with the House and Senate taking opposing views.
“If they don’t fix the LIP program, it wouldn’t matter,” Armistead said. “If they couldn’t fix LIP and we got Medicaid expansion, I would lose $95 million and gain $35 million. I would still go broke.”
Rep. Travis Cummings, R-Orange Park, is considered one of the First Coast delegation’s health-care chiefs. He doesn’t think UF Health Jacksonville should ring the alarm yet. “I’m still optimistic, thinking that something will be worked out in terms of that continued federal partnership,” he said.
Cummings said cooler heads should prevail among elected officials and a LIP deal be worked out, though perhaps later in the year than many people would like.
Although the LIP program expires June 30, the money actually wouldn’t run out until Oct. 1 when the federal fiscal year begins, health experts say. That gives Florida a few months of wiggle room.
If that final agreement factors out to a loss in money for Jacksonville’s safety net hospital, the legislative delegation will consider its options, Cummings said. The House has said it will not use general fund dollars to make up any LIP losses, but he believes a special case could be made.
“If there is any one that really has a significant case and it’s valid, it’s proven, it’s not just rhetoric, we know that,” he said.
Most Commented
Highest Rated

