Lawmakers battle over bringing Medicaid expansion to floor vote - KXLF.com Butte MT Continuous News Butte MT
Posted:
Updated:
HELENA -
The fate of Medicaid expansion in Montana could be in the hands of the House Rules Committee — at least for a short time.
Democrats want to bring Senate Bill 405 — the Medicaid expansion bill sponsored by MT Sen. Ed Buttrey (R-Great Falls) — to a vote on the House floor. With more than a dozen Republican House members signing on as bill co-sponsors, Democrats figure they have the 51 votes to send the legislation to Gov. Steve Bullock's desk.
The House Human Services committee heard testimony for about three hours on the bill Tuesday, with supporters and opponents spilling into the hallway and a second hearing room.
The Republican majority added amendments the supporter's didn't want — including one to essentially turn the bill into Bullock's original Medicaid proposal, which is presumed dead and probably wouldn't have the votes to pass the House, and another to bring the whole deal to the voters in a referendum — before delivering back to the full House with the unusual “do not concur” label.
Democrats blasted the process as ”embarrassing,” “disingenuous” and “a circus” designed to torpedo a legislative compromise.
MT Rep. Art Wittich (R-Belgrade), the panel chairman, rejected those charges, calling it “hogwash” to claim that the deal was years in the making.
He said it came to the committee in the dead of night, would greatly enrich the third-party administrators envisioned in the plan, and continues the nation's failed “War on Poverty.” He accused Bullock of taking an “all-or-nothing” approach by gaining the support of a handful of senators.
The significance of the “do not concur” action, also called an adverse committee report — instead of the more common tabling of a bill to kill it — is that the adverse report could render the Democrats' six “silver bullets” invalid. Those bullets, the result of an agreement between the marries at the start of the session — enable a bill to be “blasted” from a committee table onto the floor with a simple majority vote, instead of the three-fifth usually required.
MT Rep. Chuck Hunter (D-Helena), the House Minority Leader, rose on the floor to object to the adverse committee report. He said it violated the agreement about the silver bullets.
Speaker of the House Austin Knudsen disagreed, and lawmakers tried to hammer out the rules.
They spoke first in a group at the front of the House floor, then moved into Knudsen's office. When a reporter knocked and asked if the Rules Committee was meeting, Rep. Jeff Essmann (R-Billings) the chair of that panel, emerged to say there was no quorum (which would have opened the meeting to other lawmakers and the public) and then closed the door.
The lawmakers finally emerged and returned to the floor, where Knudsen ruled as out of order Hunter's objection to the adverse committee report; Hunter appealed that, and Knudsen then referred the matter to the Rules Committee, which is set to meet on the matter Wednesday at noon.
But even that committee's ruling may not be the end of it; its actions too may be overturned by a majority vote, and some lawmakers said the procedural wrangling could last a couple of more days yet.
Lawmakers battle over bringing Medicaid expansion to floor vote More>>
UPDATED
Monday, April 6 2015 10:30 PM EDT2015-04-07 02:30:02 GMT
Adam Hatfield, 25, is charged with deliberate homicide in the death of his father Matt Hatfield
The trial started Monday for a local man accused of beating his father to death with a baseball bat in Butte over six years ago. Adam Hatfield, 24, is charged with deliberate homicide. 
The trial started Monday for a local man accused of beating his father to death with a baseball bat in Butte over six years ago. Adam Hatfield, 24, is charged with deliberate homicide. 
Monday, April 6 2015 9:03 PM EDT2015-04-07 01:03:05 GMT
Updated:
Monday, April 6 2015 5:47 PM EDT2015-04-06 21:47:03 GMT
Robert Lance is accused of endangering his young son on Easter while driving under the influence of marijuana. (YCDF photo)
Yellowstone County prosecutors allege a 30-year-old man endangered his 4-year-old son while driving under the influence of marijuana.
Yellowstone County prosecutors allege a 30-year-old man endangered his 4-year-old son while driving under the influence of marijuana.
Monday, April 6 2015 9:12 PM EDT2015-04-07 01:12:52 GMT
   

