Published: Saturday, April 11, 2015 12:02 a.m. CDT
SPRINGFIELD – A law that cut the size of juries in Illinois civil cases from 12 to six is being targeted for repeal by Gov. Bruce Rauner, who says some counties are struggling to find the money in their budgets for a corresponding hike in juror pay.
Jurors currently are paid between $4 and $10 a day, but beginning June 1, the law increases pay to $25 for the first day and $50 a day thereafter. Rauner said that’s putting added budget pressure on some counties, and repealing the law would save taxpayer dollars.
Reducing the number of jurors serving on civil cases from 12 to six was touted last year as a way to keep costs down. Before the measure was approved, advocates said Illinois doesn’t require employers to pay wages during jury duty and the increase would put Illinois more in line with what other states pay.
But even if repealing the law reverted juries back to 12 people, the cost could be a fraction of what it would be if the change takes effect.
The trial lawyers oppose repealing the changes, which the association lobbied to pass. John Cooney, president of the Illinois Trial Lawyers Association said paying jurors more can reduce the hardship for some workers, who may miss several days of work and get a check of just a few dollars.
“For someone like Bruce Rauner, maybe it’s funny. He can give the check to his doorman,” he said. “But we’ve had people lose their car because they served on a jury.”
The change in compensation is expected to add nearly $250,000 to the amount suburban McHenry County must pay jurors. James Wallis, McHenry County court administrator, said his office is working with county officials to find ways to handle the estimated $370,000 budget they’ll need by 2016 to pay for trial jurors. That figure is more than double what McHenry paid last year for juries.
“That’s significant in any budget. If you look across the state, counties that don’t have the budget of ours, this increase will impact them even more,” Wallis said.
Wallis said the courts administration office has proposed changes to the way trials would be handled in the future, including starting them earlier and closely managing the number of jurors serving more than one day, to ease costs. But the changes only are going to help mitigate the added cost, not eliminate it.
Comments
More News
April  7, 2015 -  7:09 pm
Comments
Yes
No
Copyright © 2015 Northwest Herald. All rights reserved. Published in Crystal Lake, Illinois, USA, by Shaw Media.

