NASA Packed 100 Tampons For Sally Ride's Week In Space 'To Be Safe'
NASA, the agency that is going to bring Earthlings to Mars, packed 100 tampons for seven days in space "to be safe." Safe from what?
Women in sciences have come a long way thanks to women like the late Sally Ride. (Photo : NASA)
Sally Ride, physicist and first American woman in space, would have been 64 on Tuesday. Google honored her with a Google Doodle . Ride's accomplishments were many, but being the first woman had its downsides. Ride was reminded of her gender at every turn - from being called "the prettiest member of the crew" to being asked by a reporter if she would cry should something go wrong with the shuttle.
A telling example was given by The American Prospect : "NASA had to make some adjustments to accommodate the women in Ride's astronaut class and later as it prepared to send her to space. It added a women's locker room, which astronaut Judy Resnik, who later died in the Challenger explosion, festooned with a Tom Selleck poster. Rather than force astronauts to use urine-catching devices that resembled condoms, NASA added commodes to space vessels. Tampons were packed with their strings connecting them, like a strip of sausages, so they wouldn't float away. Engineers asked Ride, 'Is 100 the right number?' She would be in space for a week. 'That would not be the right number,' she told them. At every turn, her difference was made clear to her."
"We just want to be safe," the engineers replied, according to Vox .
HNGN Poll of the Day
HNGN BUZZ
EDITOR'S PICKS
Following the discovery by police of a skull belonging to Tennessee missing person turned homicide victim Bobby Smelcer, his sister, Kristy, sits down to speak with HNGN true crime contributor Jon Leiberman to reveal where the case is headed.
The 15-year-old went missing in April.
Andrea Tantaros: Is Fox News Channel's Rising Star The Real Deal? [Profile]
Armed with a blue-collar work ethic, political savvy and mental toughness, Andrea Tantaros and her combustible brand of commentary are becoming hot commodities for Fox News Channel. She's certainly helped ensemble shows "Outnumbered," and "The Five," become runaway hits. But is she the real deal or Megyn Kelly Lite? HNGN goes behind the scenes at the network to profile the intriguing firebrand. [Exclusive Interview]
Follow us on
You have already subscribed. Thank you.
LET'S CONNECT HNGN
PETS HAPPY ZONE

