Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Campaigning in the Upstate, senator says voters want a bold leader.
Post to Facebook
Cruz sees hunger for truth Campaigning in the Upstate, senator says voters want a bold leader. Check out this story on greenvilleonline.com: http://grnol.co/1FrWPVY
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Texas Senator, Ted Cruz pays a visit to Greenville. Speaking to supporters at the Poinsett Club.
(Photo: KEN OSBURN)
Asked in Greenville Friday why he’s enjoyed a bump in the polls recently, Texas senator and Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz didn’t mention being the first of many rivals for the GOP nomination to officially announce a campaign for the White House.
Instead, he argued that voters are hungering for a bold leader who will run against corruption in Washington and speak the truth.
Millions off “courageous conservatives recognize we’ve got to change the path we’re on and that the only way to win – as Reagan put it in 1980 – is to paint in bold colors and not pale pastels,” Cruz told The Greenville News just before talking to local Republicans at The Poinsett Club.
“I think that explains the surge we’re seeing, is that courageous conservatives are hungry for a leader who will tell the truth and do what he says he’ll do,” Cruz said.
The conservative firebrand campaigned in Rock Hill, Spartanburg and Greenville Friday on his first trip to South Carolina since announcing a presidential campaign at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va., on March 23.
He was scheduled to visit Aiken and Columbia on Saturday.
At The Beacon Drive-in in Spartanburg, Cruz delivered a fiery speech to a packed house of Republicans and tea party conservatives sweltering in a sunroom.
His first line as he took the microphone: “God bless the great state of South Carolina.”
Wearing a blue sportcoat and cowboy boots, Cruz drew hearty applause as he called for repealing “every word” of Obamacare, President Obama’s healthcare reform law, and Common Core, the controversial educational standards loathed by some conservatives.
He railed against the Internal Revenue Service, said he’d institute a flat tax and called for “restoring America’s leadership in the world.”
“We need to keep the federal government out of our phones and out of our email,” Cruz declared.
Dusty Waldrop, 33, of Boiling Springs said before the speech that he’d already decided to vote for Cruz if the senator is still in the race when the South Carolina presidential primary takes place in mid-February.
“I’ve listened to him on Mark Levin over and over again,” said Waldrop, a production worker at the Sew-Eurodrive plant in Lyman. “He’s always been direct and never sidestepped. He’s been straightforward all along, and I respect that. He hasn’t been wishy-washy. I don’t want none off that wishy-washy stuff.”
Among those who heard Cruz in Spartanburg was state Sen. Lee Bright, Roebuck Republican.
“I think he hit all the right points, and I’m going to keep paying attention to the race, but I was very impressed,” Bright said.
Talking to reporters at The Beacon, Cruz promised to return to South Carolina often with his wife, Heidi.
“South Carolina and Texas share basic conservative values,” he said. “We love God. We love freedom. We love the Constitution. We stand by the military. We love our guns, and we believe the country’s got to change the direction we’re in.”
Asked about the clash between gay rights and social conservatives over religious liberty legislation in Indiana and Arkansas, Cruz said the “view that marriage is a holy sacrament, the union of one woman, one man, ordained by God” is “not welcome in the modern Democratic Party.”
“And not only that, they’re going to use the forces of government to go after and persecute anyone who follows the biblical teaching on marriage,” he said. “That is heartbreaking. It is extreme, and it’s inconsistent with centuries of the American tradition.”
U.S. Rep. Jim Clyburn of Columbia, South Carolina’s only Democratic member of Congress, offered a different view on the religious liberty dispute during an interview earlier in the week.
Clyburn said South Carolina ought to update its own laws to better protect gay rights before it gets challenged by big companies such as Walmart and Apple as Indiana and Arkansas did.
Clyburn said he liked legislation proposed by state Sen. Brad Hutto, an Orangeburg Democrat, that would prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation in five areas.
“I think the South Carolina Legislature ought to get out in front of this issue because it’s going to become an issue,” Clyburn told The Greenville News. “Why wait for it to happen?”
Cruz has moved up in the polls since becoming the first major candidate to announce a presidential campaign on March 23.
He placed third in at least two recent national polls, behind former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker.
He’s also enjoyed better numbers in South Carolina, according to a recent survey of Palmetto State Republicans and independents.
Cruz captured 13 percent and third place in the Townhall/Gravis telephone survey, trailing Walker, who placed first with 17 percent, and Bush, who was a close second with 16 percent.
For Cruz, it was a jump of 11 percentage points from a late February poll of South Carolina Republicans by Townhall/Gravis that found just 2 percent favoring him as the GOP presidential nominee.
Cruz is the latest GOP presidential candidate or potential candidate to make his way to Greenville 10 months before South Carolina’s first-in-the-South primary.
Seven others have visited Greenville since late February.
They are former Bush, Walker, South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, former Texas Gov. Rick Perry and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio.
Two others, Ohio Gov. John Kasich and former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, are scheduled to attend the Greenville County Republican Party’s biennial convention on April 18.
More Stories

