Enter your email to receive Civil Beat's free daily newsletter.
Hirono, Three Other Senators Back Obama on Immigration
The action comes as House Democrats also file a legal briefing with a court reviewing an injunction that halted the president's actions.
April 7, 2015
Four Democrats on the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee subcommittee said Tuesday they are rejecting a district court judge’s “unprecedented invalidation” of President Barack Obama’s executives actions on immigration.
Mazie Hirono of Hawaii along with Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) and Chris Coons (D-Del.)  filed an amicus brief — a “friend of the court” document — with the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in the case of Texas v. United States.
The senators, according to Hirono’s office, are urging the court to overturn a lower court’s injunction blocking implementation of a Department of Homeland Security initiative “that offered relief from deportation to roughly 5 million undocumented immigrants who are parents of U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents, or who came to the United States as children.”
Sen. Mazie Hirono walks to the Capitol for a vote on Homeland Security funding.
Cory Lum/Civil Beat
The latest action follows separate but similar legal briefs filed Monday by most House Democrats (including Tulsi Gabbard and Mark Takai) and more than 70 city and county leaders (none from Hawaii).
In a joint statement, the four senators said:
“President Obama’s executive action on immigration was well within his legal authority and was a step towards reforming our broken immigration system. The Senate has an interest in ensuring that when Congress gives the Executive Branch the authority and responsibility to execute America’s immigration laws in a humane and thoughtful manner, the federal courts respect Congress’s decision. The brief we have filed today makes that clear.”
The senators said that it would be a “disaster” if the lower court’s decision is upheld.
 
 
Hawaii's largest news outlet dedicated to Hawaii public affairs reporting.
We bring you investigative and watchdog journalism, in-depth enterprise reporting, analysis and commentary that gives readers a broad view on issues of importance to the community.
Get 15 days free when you subscribe
for $9.99/month
First Name*
Last Name*
Copyright © 2010-2015 Peer News LLC. All rights reserved. Civil Beat © is a registered trademark of Peer News LLC.

