A
A
A
Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, a hard-charging self-described "Democratic socialist," has been generating buzz from Democrats looking for an alternative to front-runner Hillary Clinton.
Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders unveiled his presidential campaign Tuesday, calling for a "political revolution" to take on the moneyed interests and warning that the "grotesque level" of economic inequality in the U.S. is "immoral."
"Today, with your support and the support of millions of people throughout this country, we begin a political revolution to transform our country economically, politically, socially and environmentally,” he said in his hometown of Burlington.
“Today, we stand here and say loudly and clearly: Enough is enough. This great nation and its government belong to all of the people, and not to a handful of billionaires," he said.
Sanders, a hard-charging self-described "Democratic socialist," has been generating buzz from Democrats looking for an alternative to front-runner Hillary Clinton.
"This campaign is not about Bernie Sanders, it's not about Hillary Clinton, it's not about Jeb Bush or anyone else," the gruff Vermont senator said, promising to avoid "political gossip or relentless personal attacks," though he called out conservative billionaires including the Koch brothers and Sheldon Adelson in his speech.
"To the billionaire class, I say your greed has got to end," he declared after calling for higher taxes on the wealthy, a $15 national minimum wage and $1 trillion federal jobs and infrastructure program, free universal college education and universal Medicare, saying his humble upbringing in Brooklyn taught him "what lack of money means to a family."
But even his supporters acknowledged the steep uphill climb he faces in taking on Clinton.
Win McNamee/Getty Images
Sanders, who announced he'd run in late April, is the first candidate to officially jump in against Clinton. He'll be in early-voting Iowa and New Hampshire as well as Minnesota in the coming days.
"Some say that voting for Bernie is throwing your vote away. I say that voting for anybody else is flushing our country down the drain," said Ben & Jerry's cofounder Ben Cohen as he introduced Sanders at the rally.
Sanders, who announced he'd run in late April, is the first candidate to officially jump in against Clinton. He'll be in early-voting Iowa and New Hampshire as well as Minnesota in the coming days.
But he'll soon have competition in becoming the left's favorite to take on Clinton, with Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley planning his own campaign launch on Saturday.
Related Stories
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

