NY budget&#39s education strategy sends shockwaves
The recently passed New York state spending budget also raises the probationary period just before teacher tenure is granted from three years to four.(Photo: Photo courtesy of www.morguefile.com)A slate of alterations to New York's college program tucked...
The recently passed New York state spending budget also raises the probationary period just before teacher tenure is granted from three years to four.(Photo: Photo courtesy of www.morguefile.com)
A slate of alterations to New York's college program tucked into the state's new $142 billion spending budget are either a "dramatic shift" or a "sham," based on your perspective.
According to Gov. Andrew Cuomo, the education program — which contains a tougher teacher-evaluation program and a strategy for taking over extended-struggling schools — will be "one of the greatest legacies" he leaves for the state.
The New York State United Teachers union says Cuomo has "refused to contemplate the educational research" or listen to parents and educators. The union has gone as far as to suggest parents ought to considering opting their children out of state-mandated exams.
It's a fight that won't finish anytime quickly: The ramifications of the education-reform program spearheaded by Cuomo will play out over years.
But the shockwaves are currently being felt at the Capitol, exactly where lawmakers in the state Assembly debated the program for 61/2 hours before approving it Tuesday, which helped push passage of the price range a couple of hours past a midnight deadline.
"We advocated, we agonized, we pushed, we pulled and fought to make a terrible situation far better," mentioned Assemblyman Ken Zebrowski, D-New City, Rockland County.
ROCHESTER DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE
Monroe County schools get $64M state aid enhance
The state spending budget involves $23.5 billion in funding for schools, not counting some further funds that will enable expand prekindergarten applications and a $75 million fund for 27 struggling schools.
It also incorporated a multipart program Cuomo says will lead to progress in schools but has led to strife with the teachers union.
That plan offers largely with teachers and "failing schools," such as a new course of action of evaluating educators and a program for appointing a state-approved "receiver" to step in and make adjustments at schools with poor academic progress.
It also involves changes to tie tenure protections for teachers to their functionality on the annual evaluations, which will rely in portion on how their students carry out on state tests. Teachers who are rated hugely would be in line for a state-funded grant of up to $20,000.
"We are redesigning, reforming the complete education system, which is a $50 billion sector in the state," Cuomo mentioned Wednesday on The Capitol Pressroom, a public radio plan. "And arguably the most vital factor the government does is education."
Newly certified teachers would be necessary to take one hundred hours of "continuing education" classes and re-certify each five years. State residents who received their undergraduate degree from a New York college and get their master's degree in teaching at a SUNY college would be eligible for tuition reimbursement if they agree to teach in-state for five years.
ROCHESTER DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE
The teachers have taken greatest situation with the teacher-evaluation strategy.
Even though the precise structure of the system won't be completed by the state Education Division till June, the law tends to make clear that teachers whose students perform poorly on state exams will not be able to get an general evaluation score better than "establishing" — the second-lowest score.
"It is not primarily based on anything that is sound or very good for schools and superior for kids," NYSUT President Karen Magee mentioned. "What are we attempting to do? Are we attempting to build a plan that is in fact fantastic for students? Or are we attempting to make a plan that goes immediately after teachers?"
The alterations come at a time when the union and parents all through the state have raised issues about the state's testing, specifically as the state continues its transition to the Frequent Core, a set of far more-stringent education standards.
ROCHESTER DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE
Andreatta: The big Frequent Core opt-out
Magee triggered a stir last week when she suggested to reporters at the Capitol that parents should consider opting their young children out of the state-mandated tests distributed to grades three-8. Last year, up to 60,000 students may have opted out, but the state Education Department has discouraged it.
"What the teachers union will continue to do is support parents and the parents' proper to opt out," Magee stated in an interview Thursday. "We have made the materials out there to parents so they know their rights and make choices for their own kids without the need of worry of the college district threatening them."
On Thursday, Assembly Education Chair Catherine Nolan, D-Queens, introduced a bill that would make it clear that parents have the "proper and authority to exempt their youngsters from taking standardized assessments." The spending budget also calls for the Education Department to submit a plan to Cuomo and lawmakers by June 1 to recommend approaches schools can decrease testing.
ROCHESTER DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE
Regents speak plainly on urban education
In a current statement, the head of the Board of Regents — the state's education policy-generating board — said state tests "ought to under no circumstances be the only measure of student progress," but said they give an "significant supply of objective details."
"Those who get in touch with for 'opting out' really want New York to 'opt out' of facts that can help parents and teachers understand how properly students are performing," stated Regents Chancellor Merryl Tisch. "We can not go back to ignoring the wants of our young children."
The education spending budget bill passed 36 to 26 in the state Senate and 92 to 55 in the Assembly, where various Democrats lamented many of its measures just before eventually casting their votes in favor of it — in big element due to the fact it was tied to greater college aid. Assembly Democrats promoted what they had been able to negotiate out of Cuomo's original strategy, such as a proposal to make 50 % of a teacher's evaluation based exclusively on student test scores.
Cuomo had also proposed linking an raise in college funding to lawmakers agreeing to his reforms. He partly relented, but college districts will only get a portion of their aid boost if they do not have the new teacher evaluation method implemented by Nov. 15.
The college districts must negotiate with neighborhood teacher unions more than how very best to implement the evaluation technique, which will involve a choice on irrespective of whether to mandate a second round of testing for students.
These negotiations are "most likely to be testy negotiations in many districts," according to Timothy Kremer, executive director of the state School Boards Association.
"We had hoped the linkage of a state aid improve to (the teacher evaluation system) was just a bad April Fool's joke," Kremer stated in a statement. The price range was approved early on April 1.
JCAMPBELL1@Gannett.com
Twitter.com/JonCampbellGAN
Education moves
Some initiatives in the state's budget:
Funding: $23.5 billion in help for schools, an improve of far more than $1.three billion.
Troubled schools: 27 schools have one particular year to show progress or face a state takeover.
Teachers: Education Division will finalize an evaluation program.
Bonuses: Districts can request bonuses for teachers who get the top rating.
Testing: Board of Regents need to provide a report by June 1 on methods to reduce testing.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
03 April 2015 Friday 20:41
11 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.
Breaking News in this Category

