Home  >  Watchdog Arena  >  Illinois Governor Rauner plans to ‘rip the economic guts out of Indiana’
Illinois Governor Rauner plans to ‘rip the economic guts out of Indiana’
 
By Fran Eaton and Dennis LaComb | Watchdog Arena
Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner is fed up with neighbors crossing state borders to scoop up disillusioned CEOs and struggling companies to whisk them out of near-bankrupt Illinois.
He’s got a plan to turnaround Illinois that he is determined to deliver, he told the Chicago Tribune Monday. And, he warned, the process may not be pretty.
Rauner is tackling a $6 billion budget deficit, a Legislature that’s been controlled by Democrats for over 30 years, and state employee pension fund obligations that are $300 billion in arrears.
The last thing he needs is fellow Republican governors poaching jobs, especially from the state just to Illinois’ east–Indiana.
Rauner’s not going to take it anymore from the Hoosier State. He made no bones about it during Monday’s Tribune editorial meeting.
“Believe me, I am going to rip–try to rip the economic guts out of Indiana,” he  told the newspaper . “I am one of the baddest, you know, enemies anybody can have. And when I set a goal, we do it. I don’t care what the headline is. I want the results. And we’re coming after Indiana big time. But you know what, we’re going to do it on our terms, the right way.”
The edgy response came after Rauner was asked about Indiana’s recent religious freedom controversy, and Rauner shrugged it off as merely a “headline opportunity” rather than a real issue.
Pence’s office wasn’t amused with Rauner’s threat.
“We’ll stack Indiana’s low taxes, triple A credit rating and excellent business climate against those of any other state any time,” said Christy Denault, communications director for Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, who shot back Tuesday afternoon in the Indy Star .
“Our corporate taxes are going down, our workforce has been growing, and we will continue to aggressively recruit new companies and new jobs to our state. Illinois will find tough competition here in Indiana,” Denault said.
And Indiana Sen. Brandt Herschman, chairman of the Senate’s Tax and Fiscal policy Committee chimed in via Twitter: “Funny stuff. High taxes, regs, and drowning in debt. Like a boat race between a catamaran and a leaky dinghy. We win.”
Over the past few years, the administrations of New Jersey’s Gov. Chris Christie, Texas’ Gov. Rick Perry and Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana have raided Illinois with ad campaigns intending to poach top-notch Illinois jobs.
The 2011 campaign asking Illinois drivers crossing the Indiana state line if they were “Illinoyed” by higher taxes started when the Illinois legislature and Democratic governor hiked the state tax level by 67 percent.
Gov. Daniels joked that having Illinois as a neighbor was like living next door to a dysfunctional family. When Daniels’ term ended, Indiana’s Gov. Mike Pence took up the mantle. Three months ago in a visit with the City Club of Chicago, Pence defended his state’s “playful penchant to poach business.”
And then came the Indiana ads in Chicago papers saying , “Admit it. You find me fiscally attractive.” Or,” Envy is a sin, but moving here isn’t.”
All the court trash talk could have been brushed aside, but since 2011, 100 Illinois businesses have packed up and moved across the state line into Indiana.
But Rauner, who was a rough and tough venture capitalist that acquired a reported nearly $1 billion in assets before becoming governor, says he’s determined to “Turnaround Illinois” and he’s taken his campaign on a 17-stop tour the first two weeks of April.
Rauner says he plans to use Illinois budget crisis to negotiate change in Illinois business policy. To start with, he’s pushing for right-to-work zones, workers compensation reform and more leniency in prevailing wage rules.
In the meantime, the battle over the Illinois-Indiana border is likely to intensify.
This article was written by a contributor of Watchdog Arena, Franklin Center’s network of writers, bloggers, and citizen journalists.
Fran Eaton is co-founder and editor of IllinoisReview.com and a former political columnist for Chicago Sun-Times Media. In addition, she freelances for a Chicago area trade association and non-profit groups. Before writing, Fran was a full-time homeschooling mother and actively involved in Illinois politics. Find her on Twitter: @FranEaton
Sign-up for our Watchdog.org email list to receive the latest news and in-depth coverage.
Newsletter Signup
Read stories like:
Special series on issues like Police Militarization

