News Ticker
Google Doodle
Sign up to receive our weekly newsletter of the most popular space stories:
On May 26, Google celebrated the 64th birthday of astronaut Sally Ride, the first American woman in space. Google released a new animated doodle by Olivia Huynh. Google also released a “Behind the Doodle” piece , including Nate Swinehart’s animation about Ride’s life and the origin of the doodle, and an essay by Tam O’Shaughnessy, Ride’s life partner and CEO of Sally Ride Science.
Sally Ride would have turned 64 on May 26, but sadly passed away on July 23, 2012, due to pancreatic cancer. Early in her life, Ride had considered pursuing professional tennis, but opted for a career in science instead. She was approaching the conclusion of her PhD in physics at Stanford University in 1977 when she learned about NASA’s search for astronauts. This was the first astronaut call open to female applicants.
Sally was among six women chosen to be astronauts, and on June 18, 1983, she journeyed into space aboard the space shuttle Challenger. Later, she left NASA to teach physics at the University of California in San Diego, and became an environmentalist. Ride, O’Shaughnessy, and three friends started Sally Ride Science in 2001 to encourage young people to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering, and math disciplines.
O’Shaughnessy concluded with a quote from Ride herself: “Everywhere I go I meet girls and boys who want to be astronauts and explore space, or they love the ocean and want to be oceanographers, or they love animals and want to be zoologists, or they love designing things and want to be engineers. I want to see those same stars in their eyes in 10 years and know they are on their way!”
Author
Andrew McDonald, PhD is a vertebrate paleontologist and writer. He received his doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania, and continues to study dinosaurs and other prehistoric life.
Latest posts by Andrew McDonald ( see all )
Andrew McDonald, PhD is a vertebrate paleontologist and writer. He received his doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania, and continues to study dinosaurs and other prehistoric life.
Sign Up for Space News
Sign up to receive our weekly newsletter of the most popular space stories:
More Information
Do you enjoy our interesting articles about space?
Like our Facebook fan-page for occasional updates on your news feed!

