Recent
Recent
Recent
Other Vehicles for Sale
Employment News
Saved
Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner said he probably didn't choose his words carefully enough when he said the state Supreme Court is part of a "corrupt" judicial system.
In a meeting Wednesday night with the Quad-City Times editorial board, Rauner said he wasn't singling out the high court, nor did he use the word "corrupt" again.
"I probably didn't use words carefully enough," he said. "I believe our judicial system is full of conflicts of interests. And the Supreme Court is part of the judicial system. It's not the Supreme Court, per se, it's the system."
On Tuesday, the governor told the Daily Herald, a suburban Chicago daily newspaper, that he didn't trust the state's high court to be rational in its decisions and said the judges are eager to act as legislators.
When asked whether the high court was part of a "corrupt" system, he said: "Yes, correct. Yes. Yes. We have a system where we elect our judges, and the trial lawyers who argue cases in front of those judges give campaign cash to those judges. It's a corrupt system."
The comments drew criticism from some who said he was undermining the high court and they were made as the court is reviewing a 2013 law aimed at cutting pension benefits for state workers and retirees.
Rauner said Wednesday he wasn't singling out a particular court or individual judges, but he said it's a conflict for lawyers, as well as businesses who have an interest in the court's decisions, to be able to make campaign contributions to elected judges.
"I think that's a problem," he said.
He noted other states have merit-based selection systems. The governor said he has been raising the issue for two years.
Still, he indicated he had problems with the judicial system other than just the source of campaign contributions.
"My comments about the Supreme Court, one of the issues I raised is, you know, they're opining on things that impact them, when they talk about pensions and health care and what not," he said. "I'm just troubled by the conflict. I don't criticize them. They're doing the best they can. They're good people. I don't criticize individual judges or a particular court. The system, I think, has conflicts."
Copyright 2015 The Quad-City Times. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Beignet Done That
The Spa at Hotel Blackhawk
Hotel Blackhawk
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with qctimes.com account:
Username & Password Required!

