1.4k  shares
SHARE
TWEET
SMS
SEND
EMAIL
Former Rhode Island governor Lincoln Chafee announced Thursday he is exploring a bid for the Democratic presidential nomination.
Chafee, a friend of President Obama who did not seek a new term in 2014, said in a video posted on his campaign website that he is concerned about “international instability,” particularly in the Middle East and North Africa.
He also touted his record, going back to his days as a mayor of Warwick, R.I., and including his eight years in the U.S. Senate.
“I don’t like where this is going,” Chafee said. “Americans want safety, stability and sustainability. We will need fresh ideas and the most skillful diplomacy in this ever changing world.”
Chafee faces an uphill climb, as Hillary Clinton prepares to jump into the race. The former secretary of State is widely considered the leading Democratic contender, even as Martin O’Malley, Jim Webb and Bernie Sanders have traveled early presidential nominating states testing their messages.
In an interview with Rhode Island Public Radio , Chafee said he does not believe in Clinton’s inevitability as the Democratic Party nominee. “I’m not naive about the task ahead of me,” he said.
As a Republican senator, Chafee was an early supporter of Obama for president in 2008. He lost his Senate re-election bid in 2006 and became an independent for his successful 2010 race for governor.
Faced with low job-approval ratings, Chafee switched parties again and became a Democrat in May 2013. He abandoned his re-election bid in September of that year.
Winner of 2008 Iowa caucuses offers advice to GOP rival about handling TV interviews.
17hr
GOP presidential candidate says he’s “universally short-tempered” with female and male reporters.
Catherine Cortez Masto, a former Nevada attorney general, declared she’ll seek seat being vacated by Reid.
Congresswoman’s exit opens up a California seat coveted by both parties.
Cruz sets high bar for social media activity around presidential announcement.
Top 10 OnPolitics
374 shares
250 shares
Join 206 other followers
Post to

