We have been hearing recently about two states, Indiana and Arkansas, implementing new Religious Freedom Restoration laws, giving people and businesses the right to discriminate against gays and others.
Both Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana and Gov. Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas say their laws are the same as President Bill Clinton’s 1993 law and the same as in 19 other states. They aren’t. They were meant to specifically to allow discrimination against those different from them.
Search photos available for purchase: Photo Store →
What I’d like to know is what is this “religion,” because it certainly isn’t the Christian religion. In Mark 29-31, Christ says “the most important commandment is to love the Lord our God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind and all your strength. The second is this: Love your neighbor as yourself. There is no commandment greater than these.” Just think how peaceful this world would be if we all lived by these two commandments.
Unfortunately, these same people often discriminate against women and condemn and hate the poor and blacks, whom they continue to keep poor.
Part of the blame can be laid on the “five” extremists on the Supreme Court who are turning back the clock on people’s rights to appease the white, corporate, Republican extremists in this country.
The eight Republicans likely to run for president were beating each other off to be first to express approval of this despicable law. Unfortunately for them, professional sports organizations and Walmart, etc., who work, hire and sell to a diverse group of our society have spoken out against this legislation. As always money trumps everything, including religion.
Gloria Fleming
Here at MaineToday Media we value our readers and are committed to growing our community by encouraging you to add to the discussion.
To ensure conscientious dialogue we have implemented a strict no-bullying policy. To participate, you must follow our Terms of Use . Click here to flag and report a comment that violates our terms of use.
You've read 3 of 10 free articles
Welcome back.
As of your last visit, you've read 3 of 10 free articles.
?

