By Associated Press April 7 at 11:38 AM
ANNAPOLIS, Md. — The Maryland House of Delegates has voted to ban powdered alcohol.
The House passed the measure 119-21 Tuesday.
It would prohibit the sale of powdered alcohol from June 1 to June 30, 2016. The measure now goes to the Senate, which approved a two-year ban Monday night.
The two chambers would have to agree on the length of the ban for it to become law.
The U.S. Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau recently approved several labels for a powdered form of alcohol that can be dissolved in a beverage. Several states have recently passed legislation banning it. Concerns have included abuse by minors and the potential to snort the powder.
Comptroller Peter Franchot last month announced a voluntary ban in Maryland between alcohol wholesalers and distributors.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

