May 26, 2015
Updated  8:30 p.m.
Nearly a week after Lee’s Sandwiches recalled roughly 100 tons of meat products, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said the Garden Grove processing plant that distributes the chain’s food in multiple states would be further investigated for misbranding violations that reach back at least a year.
“Our inspectors will dive more into their process,” the USDA said Tuesday.
On Monday, Lee’s Sandwiches confirmed the voluntary recall, which has targeted 213,000 pounds of meat processed at LQNN from May 18, 2014 to May 18. The recall was announced by the USDA May 20.
The sandwich chain, founded by the Le family, originally started as a food service company in the Bay Area in the 1980s. Years later, the family launched a chain of sandwich shops known for their inexpensive Vietnamese-style sandwiches. A signature baguette sandwich could contain ingredients such as cold slices of head cheese, jambon (salted ham), pate, julienne carrots, onions, mayonnaise and cilantro.
More than 50 Lee’s restaurants operate in California, Arizona, Nevada, Oklahoma and Texas. Roughly 15 are in Orange County, with multiple shops in Westminster, and one coming to Cypress.
In a prepared statement, Lee’s Chief Operations Officer Tom Quach apologized and assured the public the mislabeled products were safe.
“We also would like to assure the public that the implicated products were produced in an FDA regulated facility and that the leadership of LQNN is confident that the products being recalled all meet the food safety standards of the company and were manufactured using ingredients and processes that meet the requirements of the FDA,” Quach said in a statement on the company’s website.
Here’s a few answers to some other questions about the recall provided by USDA.
Q. What exactly happened?
A. During a routine inspection May 19, USDA officers visiting the central kitchen of LQNN, at 7180 Lampson Ave., and discovered the plant had been modifying USDA certified meats by further processing them within the plant. The final product was then erroneously given a USDA certification, and shipped off to restaurants.
Q. What does "further processing" mean?
A. It means the plant was either cooking the USDA certified meats or blending it with another product to create a new food item. Any such "processing" is subject to USDA inspection, the agency said. "Cooking needs to be regulated by us," the USDA told the Register.
Q. What foods were recalled?
A. The biggest quantities of recalled meat products were “pork pate chaud” (61,000 pounds), “chicken pate chaud” (56,000 pounds), “banh bao pork and egg steamed bun” (55,000 pounds), “sliced oil browned turkey” (23,000 pounds) and “banh boa trung cut pork and quail egg steamed bun” (15,000 pounds).
Q. Will LLQN be fined?
A. Unclear. The USDA plans to follow up on the plant’s long-term processing practices.
Q. So in the follow up probe, the agency will be checking to see if the plant has been mislabeling foods as USDA certified beyond a year?
A. Yes.
Q. Does LLQN supply any other restaurant besides Lee’s?
A. Unclear. The USDA said Lee’s is the only retailer to come forward. The chain, which has restaurants in multiple states, voluntarily recalled the meats. A retailer distribution list is pending, the USDA said. On Monday, Lee’s said: “Both the corporate (LQNN) owned and the franchise-owned Lee Sandwiches retail stores are subject to this recall.” It didn’t name any other restaurants.
Q. What else is the USDA doing to ensure the public's safety?
A. USDA inspectors will make sure all the mislabeled products have been removed and destroyed. It is possible that mislabeled products have been sitting in a freezer for a year, the USDA.
Q. Lee's said the Garden Grove plant was certified by the Food and Drug Administration. Why is USDA involved?
A. FDA, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services, is responsible for ensuring the safety of all domestic and imported food products. The FDA also oversees seafood, fish, and shellfish products. The USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) regulates most meat and poultry and some egg products.
Q. Can meat be sold for public consumption without USDA certification?
A. Not necessarily. Any meat processing plant or slaughterhouse whose product is sold for “interstate commerce” is subject to USDA inspection. If the “product is crossing state lines” which is the case in the Lee’s situation, then the meat products fall under federal inspection standards, according to the USDA. However, a local slaughterhouse selling product within its own state boundary is subject to state food safety regulations, the USDA said.
Q. Who do I call to voice my concern?
A. Tom Quach at Lee’s said he can be reached at 714- 333-8688. LLQN can be reached at 714-891-8125. Quach didn’t return calls for comment on Tuesday. A person answering the phone at LLQN on Tuesday said she hadn’t heard about the recall.
Contact the writer: nluna@ocregister.com
Most popular
Lee's is known for its inexpensive Vietnamese-style sandwiches. A signature baguette sandwich contains ingredients such as cold slices of head cheese, jambon (salted ham), pate, julienne carrots, onions, mayonnaise and cilantro. FILE: THE REGISTER
The USDA is investigating food labeling by Lee's Sandwiches processing facility known as LQNN. ANA VENEGAS, STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
The USDA is investigating food labeling by Lee's Sandwiches processing facility known as LQNN. USDA
1 of
User Agreement
Comments are encouraged, but you must follow our User Agreement
Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial     slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about     tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to     allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to     republish your name and comment in additional Register publications     without any notification or payment.
Business Directory

