Hillary Clinton’s possible Democratic challengers
It's unlikely the former first lady will face any serious opposition, but here are six people that could challenge her.
Share on Facebook
Print
Joe Biden may oppose Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination, but most party members see him less as serious contender than a lovable old goofball, according to Daniel Dale.
By: Daniel Dale Washington Bureau, Published on Sun Apr 12 2015
Elizabeth Warren: The rookie Massachusetts senator and former Harvard Law professor has won a fawning liberal following with aggressive, articulate criticism of Wall Street and its political puppets. But the 65-year-old has said over and over that she isn’t running, and her brand of populism may be too left-wing for a national race even if she changes her mind.
Martin O’Malley: The former governor of Maryland is relatively handsome, relatively young at 52 and, compared to other politicians, relatively cool on paper: he sings and plays guitar in a rock band. He has progressive accomplishments to his name. But he has almost no national following. His bland, technocratic speeches reveal no indication of the kind of personality he would need to build one.
Jim Webb: Webb, 69, has a dream resumeé : Vietnam hero, Reagan-era Navy secretary, acclaimed author, former Virginia senator. He loudly opposed the disastrous Iraq and Libya wars Clinton supported. But his opposition to some affirmative action programs and some environmental regulation put him out of step with key Democratic constituencies. He also doesn’t like campaigning. It shows on his face.
Joe Biden: The vice-president has run for president twice , in 1988 and 2008. He didn’t even come close to winning when the party was more heavily composed of the white working-class voters who like him best. He is now 72, and much of the base sees him less as a serious contender than a lovable old goofball.
Lincoln Chafee: Pros: Chafee was a governor and a senator . Cons: he was one-term governor of Rhode Island, as an independent, and he was a Republican when he was a senator. The Democrats won’t choose a party-switcher who only became a Democrat in 2013.
Bernie Sanders: The Brooklyn-accented Vermont senator identifies himself as a “democratic socialist.” He runs as an independent, not a Democrat. He hates asking people for money. He is perpetually grumpy. He appears to brush his hair only occasionally. He is 73. No chance.
More on thestar.com

