 
Bells to ring across the nation, including Springfield, for Civil War commemoration
Comment
The State Journal-Register
Posted Apr. 6, 2015 at 1:19 PM
Posted Apr. 6, 2015 at 1:19 PM
Bells are scheduled to ring across the nation at 2:15 p.m. local time Thursday -- including cell phones for those so inclined -- to mark the 150th anniversary of an event that effectively ended the Civil War.
In Springfield, the " Bells Across the Land " commemoration of Lee's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Courthouse on April 9, 1865 has been joined by a spectrum of religious leaders who plan to follow the U.S. Park Service event with a second bell-ringing ceremony at the Old State Capitol in commemoration of the fight for civil rights.
"It's going coast to coast," Jim Ranslow, park ranger and program manager at Lincoln Home National Historic Site, said Monday.
The Park Service is urging churches, temples, schools, public buildings and historic sites to ring bells for four minutes at 2:15 p.m. to commemorate four years of civil war. Local residents are invited to join the commemoration with handheld bells, or cell phones, at 2 p.m. in front of the Lincoln Home.
Bells first will ring at 3 p.m. eastern time at Appomattox Courthouse National Park, 95 miles southwest of Richmond. The park is the site of Confederate General Robert E. Lee's surrender to Union General Ulysses S. Grant on Palm Sunday 1865. Local ceremonies have been adjusted for time zones for simultaneous bell ringing nationwide.
Ranslow said a number of churches and historic sites in the region have indicated plans to join in on Thursday. He added that a special bell is on loan to the Lincoln Home site.
"We do have a bell. It's from an old steam locomotive," said Ranslow.
Isolated fighting went on for several months after Lee's surrender in 1865, but Ranslow said the ceremony at Appomattox Courthouse was the watershed event in ending four years of war.
"It took a while for word to spread (to Confederate armies)," said Ranslow. "They had the telegraph, but a lot of soldiers didn't have access."
The follow-up ceremony on Thursday at the Old State Capitol grew out of a partnership on race relations between Calvary Baptist Church and Abraham Lincoln Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Springfield. A "Let Freedom Ring March" to the Old Capitol will follow the bell-ringing ceremonies at the Lincoln Home.
"We want to make the connection between the Civil War and civil fights, and the promises of Reconstruction that have not yet been fulfilled," said the Rev. Martin Woulfe of the Unitarian church.
The Reconstruction Era was a period immediately after the Civil War when the federal government set a series of policies for readmitting southern states to the Union, including protections for newly freed slaves.
Dr. Wes McNeese of the Southern Illinois University School of Medicine is scheduled to address the Old Capitol ceremony. Music of the Civil War and Civil Rights era also will be performed.
Page 2 of 2 - "We thought about putting together a bell ringing, and it just kind of snowballed," said the Rev. Silas Johnson of Calvary Baptist Church.
This year also marks the anniversary of the march for civil rights in Selma, Alabama, said Johnson, who added that the events Thursday are meant to send a larger message on race relations in Springfield.
"We want more than a show of unity. We want real unity behind the scenes," said Johnson. "We're really excited about taking part in this."
-- Contact Tim Landis: tim.landis@sj-r.com, 788-1536, twitter.com/timlandisSJR.
The State Journal-Register
Posted Apr. 6, 2015 at 1:19 PM
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
The State Journal-Register | Springfield, IL 62701

