RYAN LAWRENCE, Daily News Staff Writer rlawrence@phillynews.com
Posted: Wednesday, May 27, 2015, 3:01 AM
NEW YORK - Ruben Amaro Jr. sat in the visiting dugout at Citi Field a little more than 3 hours before first pitch yesterday, well aware of the "firestorm" he created about 100 miles south.
In a story published on csnphilly.com yesterday morning, the embattled general manager was asked about his pitching prospects at Double A Reading, including rising righthanders Aaron Nola and Zach Eflin, and whether he was aware that a lot fans would prefer for him to be aggressive and bring them up to a major league club in need.
Amaro didn't mince words in his response.
"They don't understand the game," Amaro told CSNPhilly.com, about fans eager to see prospects on the big-league roster. "They don't understand the process. There's a process. And then they bitch and complain, because we don't have a plan. There's a plan in place, and we're sticking with the plan. We can't do what's best for the fan. We have to do what's best for the organization, so the fan can reap the benefit of it later on. That's the truth."
More coverage
From the time the story hit the Web, Amaro was on an apology tour. His session at Citi Field with the traveling beat writers lasted nearly 20 minutes.
"Obviously, it's caused a bit of a firestorm in Philly," Amaro began. "The first thing I wanted to say about the comments I made is, one, I'd like to apologize to the fans. I'm a fan myself. I understand the passion and the knowledge that our fans have for our game and the other major sports, all the other sports in Philly. The comments weren't meant to disparage our fans, by any stretch of the imagination. I probably used my words incorrectly or poorly. I want to apologize for that.
"When [asked] about our club and the organization and some of the things that we're doing with some of our young players, listen, I'm as excited about seeing these guys - the Nolas, the Eflins, the [Roman] Quinns, and some of the other players who are having a lot of success right now and many of them. I'm as excited about seeing them in the big leagues as anybody else. But there's a process they have to go through. There's a process and a plan in place. And I think that was more of the point.
"I understand why the fans would want . . . because we're not having a ton of success at the major league level right now, why the fans would want to see these guys. But I think it's incumbent upon the organization to make sure we do it at the right time and do it with the right plan in place . . . I get antsy about bringing the guys from Double A to the major leagues. I got antsy about [Ken] Giles last year. I got antsy about a lot of guys. We also have to be at the tip of that, and try to make the right baseball decisions for the player and for the organization moving forward. I think that was kind of the gist of the conversation I was having, and I used my words poorly."
Amaro, a Philadelphia native, grew up a Phillies fan. So he can relate to the plight of being one during the last four seasons, right? His teams have been among baseball's biggest spenders in the last half dozen years, but haven't had a winning record since 2011.
"I think it probably would be a lot different if we were fighting for first place, or won the division the last two or three years," Amaro said. "We haven't done that, and I understand that. Some of the decisions we made were great, and some didn't work and were not so great. The way I look at it is that we are now making progress. I think the thing that bothers me the most about this stuff that happened today and the quotes I made is that I don't want to detract from the fact that there are some really positive things happening here in a way that the fans can focus on those. Hopefully, they can focus on the progress, as opposed to my misguided quotes."
Is Amaro concerned his words - which went viral quickly, beyond Philadelphia - could affect his job status? His contract expires at season's end.
"The biggest thing that bothers me about it is how the organization is perceived - not me personally," Amaro said. "We've always been one of those organizations, at least as long as I've been in the front office, to understand the fan and understand that the fans are the people who pay our salaries and support us. Am I worried about it for me? No. I'm worried about it for the organization, because they shouldn't have to suffer because I made a bad quote."
"I talked to [team president] Pat [Gillick] about it. We had a discussion about it, and he said it was unfortunate and thought it was taken out of context, where if you take the quote out of [the CSNPhilly.com] story. If you look at the breadth of the story . . . Our job is to make sure the fans love this club for a long time, and we have to do what we can to put the team in a position for the fans to enjoy it. Sadly, that point gets lost because of my quote."
On Twitter: @ryanlawrence21
Comment policy:
Philly.com comments are intended to be civil, friendly conversations. Please treat other participants with respect and in a way that you would want to be treated. You are responsible for what you say. And please, stay on topic. If you see an objectionable post, please report it to us using the "Report Abuse" option.
Please note that comments are monitored by Philly.com staff. We reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable. Personal attacks, especially on other participants, are not permitted. We reserve the right to permanently block any user who violates these terms and conditions.
 
CARS:
Newsletter
Get the latest Sports Wrap Up newsletter delivered to your email. Sign up now!


Travel Deals
Posted: Wednesday, May 27, 2015, 3:01 AM
T HE TEXT buzzed Ruben Amaro Jr.'s phone sometime in mid-afternoon yesterday, after he issued a couple of mea culpas on the radio and before appearing in front of reporters and television cameras inside the visitor's dugout at Citi Field.
"Dad, what did you say about the fans?" Andrea Amaro asked.
"Sweetheart, I'll talk to you later," the Phillies general manager texted back to his high school-aged daughter. "I'm going to go and apologize now. There was a little bit of a misunderstanding."
Yes, there was indeed.
Yes
No
Like a little bit of napalm in a fertilizer silo.
By now we all should have the apology memorized. He chose his words poorly and/or he did not use enough of them, Amaro has said, when he told CSNPhilly's Jim Salisbury that fans, "Don't understand the game" or "the process" and then "bitch and complain because we don't have a plan."
He did not mean all fans, but rather those who wish for him to promote pitchers Aaron Nola or Zach Eflin to the big leagues soon or even now. Honestly he loves you fans, loves your "passion," even if some - OK, many - of you don't love him. "I told my kids when I took over after the 2008 season that for about three or four years fans will really love your dad," Amaro was saying over the phone last night after his self-made day from hell was winding down. "And after that, they're really going to hate your dad. And what you have to understand is that this is a cyclical business.
"But your dad is your dad, and it is what it is and this is just part of being involved in professional sports. Particularly here in Philadelphia where there is such great passion. Does it affect you personally? Yeah, you wouldn't be human if it didn't. But my goal right now aside from my own personal goals is to get us back on track and make us a contender."
Amaro is in the last year of a contract that there hasn't even been rumors of renewing. Yesterday couldn't have acted as a trigger to such a conversation. The Phillies hierarchy has been loyal to their 50-year-old human shield thus far, but selling tickets to watch this team is already enough of a shell game without someone on the inside mocking the marks.
That's where he was clumsy, he repeated. He was simply explaining an organizational philosophy that some see as conservative, but is pretty much par inside of developing franchises. Nola and Eflin may make the Phillies more watchable now, but if the upside of not calling them up is creating more polished pitchers a few years from now, who is not for that?
No, the real disenchantment here is about Ruben. It has, as it once did with his old boss Ed Wade, taken on a life of its own. Twenty-somethings may not recall this, but Wade was replaced by Pat Gillick after an 88-win season, after three straight seasons of 86 wins or better. He was fired despite the development of Chase Utley and Ryan Howard and Jimmy Rollins and Carlos Ruiz and Cole Hamels, despite plucking Shane Victorino via the Rule 5 draft.
Yeah, Wade made some bad deals too, and was notoriously thin-skinned, but what finally undid him were those consecutive near-misses after the public had endured the bad baseball of his building years.
There's some of that happening here too. It's really how he got himself in trouble, responding to criticism that he is coddling his prospects, even if that makes no sense for a guy who really needs to show results now. Amaro ruined the Phillies with bad drafts and bad trades and holding onto players too long is the narrative. And if that narrative has changed somewhat with the trade of Rollins that brought Eflin or the Nola pick, or the arrival of players like Maikel Franco to the big leagues and J.P. Crawford and Roman Quinn making strides to get there, there is at best grudging acknowledgment of it by at least some fans, if not many - or all.
I asked Amaro if he thought the same fate that befell Wade awaited him at season's end; that he won't survive long enough to see his wrongs righted, to oversee the turnaround here. Does he hear the clock ticking inside of the crocodile?
"I really don't think about it all that much," he insisted. "Everybody knows I'm at the end of a contract and decisions have to be made as far as long-term viability of the organization. I believe in the people who work for me. I believe in the organization and in my ability and my experience to get us back on track . . . We've only been in this process for six months and I already see a lot of progress in the players we've acquired. In the players who are coming to the big leagues through our international system. In the players we have traded for. And that's what we have to continue to focus on and improve on.
"I hope and believe that I should be the guy to get us there and hopefully enjoy the benefits of that. But if I'm not? Then, that's part of the process. That's the stuff that I can't control."
 
Comment policy:
Philly.com comments are intended to be civil, friendly conversations. Please treat other participants with respect and in a way that you would want to be treated. You are responsible for what you say. And please, stay on topic. If you see an objectionable post, please report it to us using the "Report Abuse" option.
Please note that comments are monitored by Philly.com staff. We reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable. Personal attacks, especially on other participants, are not permitted. We reserve the right to permanently block any user who violates these terms and conditions.
 
CARS:
Newsletter
Get the latest from Sports delivered to your email. Sign up now!

