By Associated Press May 26 at 9:03 PM
SANTA CLARA, Calif. — 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick has apologized for a post on social media Tuesday that referenced flood-ravaged Houston, where San Francisco opens the preseason Aug. 15.
Kaepernick had posted on Twitter and Instagram earlier Tuesday a photo of submerged cars and this message: “I warned you the #7torms Coming !!! #Houston. Kaepernick’s jersey number is 7.
Houston and Central Texas are dealing with a severe storm that included 11 inches of rain overnight.
Kaepernick later made a follow-up post reading, “No disrespect intended! Prayers up!” before issuing a statement.
He wrote: “I’m so sorry about my insensitive post earlier today. I didn’t fully understand how many people are struggling in Houston right now and I feel horrible. My prayers are with everyone there.”
Seattle Seahawks QB Russell Wilson offered his support.
___
AP NFL website: www.pro32.ap.org and www.twitter.com/AP_NFL
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!

