NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
By ALEXANDER BURNS
APRIL 4, 2015
Inside
Photo
Robert Menendez, third from left, in a Flag Day parade in Union City, N.J., in 1992. He launched his political career in the city. Credit Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times
UNION CITY, N.J. —  Senator Robert Menendez launched his political career from the streets of this blue-collar town, an immigrant haven once considered Miami’s cold-weather satellite thanks to its large and influential community of Cuban-American exiles.
Here, Mr. Menendez first learned to turn disaster into political opportunity, ascending to the mayor’s office on the heels of a corruption scandal, then into the New Jersey Legislature amid a fiscal crisis and eventually into the Senate after sexual indiscretions brought down a governor.
But Mr. Menendez is enveloped now in a different kind of catastrophe, one driven by his personal behavior and close friendship with a political patron, Salomon Melgen . Federal prosecutors, in a 14-count indictment unsealed on Wednesday, have accused the senator of accepting gifts from Dr. Melgen, a Florida ophthalmologist, and in return lobbying for the wealthy physician’s interests in Washington.
The senator has pleaded not guilty . In a video message to supporters, he denied any wrongdoing and invoked a formative political experience: giving testimony, as a young man, against the Union City mayor, William V. Musto.
Photo
Then-Representative Robert Menendez celebrated the 1998 World Series win by the Yankees with the Cuban pitcher Orlando Hernandez at a parade in Union City, N.J. Credit Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times
“I started in public service fighting corruption in government,” Mr. Menendez said. “That’s how I began my career, and today is not how my career is going to end.”
In grappling with his current crisis, Mr. Menendez has drawn on a set of tactics that have long made him an imposing power broker. He embodies a certain brand of New Jersey politics, winning renown among Democrats for his skill at forging electoral coalitions, and for the ironhanded methods he has used to advance his allies and maintain order in a politically fractious state.
Mr. Menendez has given little ground to his critics since the indictment was announced. He surrendered his leadership role as the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , but vowed to reclaim it once the case is resolved, and has ferociously denounced what he describes as a politically motivated prosecution.
The senator’s pugnacious tone has come as little surprise to local allies, some of whom have heard from him privately as Mr. Menendez worked to shore up support. He and his advisers pressed for statements of solidarity from state Democrats, even before the specific charges against Mr. Menendez were released, in order to demonstrate the senator’s broad backing.
Mr. Menendez has rejected suggestions that he announce now, as he fights the criminal case, that he will not run for re-election in 2018, according to political associates who asked to speak anonymously about sensitive conversations. On the contrary, the senator has repeated a forceful refrain: “I’m not going anywhere.”
The mayor of Jersey City, Steven Fulop, who said he spoke recently with Mr. Menendez, warned against counting him out.
“His career has been one of fight after fight after fight, and he’s got a nearly perfect record on that front,” said Mr. Fulop, who once lost a congressional primary to Mr. Menendez, and has since become a firm supporter.
Mr. Menendez, who graduated from high school here and joined the local school board at age 20, has long been skilled at navigating the ethnic and geographic fault lines of his diverse state.
He has steadily moved up New Jersey’s rigid Democratic leadership structure, often under conditions of political chaos: Mr. Menendez was first elected to the mayor’s office in 1986, after the criminal case against Mr. Musto resulted in the mayor’s downfall. Finding the city’s finances in disarray, Mr. Menendez almost immediately sought a seat in the State Legislature, arguing that he could help Union City from Trenton as well as City Hall. (A 1986 headline in The Miami Herald read: “First Latin mayor inherits corrupt, broke Union City.”)
Years later, when James E. McGreevey resigned as governor in a personal scandal, Mr. Menendez again seized the political opportunity. After then-Senator Jon Corzine returned to New Jersey to run for governor, Mr. Menendez — by then a congressman — lunged at the chance to replace him in Washington.
Representative Albio Sires , a longtime friend of the senator who now holds his former seat in Congress, acknowledged that the criminal indictment was a hard blow for “a very proud man.”
“He hasn’t had it easy — he has fought all the way through, and that’s just in the fiber of the man,” Mr. Sires said, adding: “He’s never been an elitist. He’s always working for the common person, for the people from Main Street.”
Mr. Menendez has worked hard to reinforce that impression, amid a yearslong investigation into his activities, punctuated by leaks that have regularly embarrassed him.
He has recently adopted an aggressive schedule of campaign-style events, advocating light-rail construction in Englewood and marching in a St. Patrick’s Day parade in Bayonne.
And he has been obsessively attentive to the diverse constituencies that make up his base, seeking opportunities to meet with groups with whom he is closely aligned.
He addressed Aipac , the powerful pro-Israel advocacy group, in early March, and raised the alarm about the threat of Iran’s nuclear program in an appearance at a Bergen County synagogue last Sunday . Mr. Menendez spoke to the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce last month, lamenting the lack of racial diversity on corporate boards.
Javier Palomarez , the chamber’s president, said Mr. Menendez was “beloved” by the group’s members, and defended him as a man of integrity.
“His name, his reach, his reputation, goes far beyond the New Jersey-New York northeastern quadrant,” Mr. Palomarez said.
But Mr. Menendez has never seen his man-of-the-people image tested as it is being tested now, after a 68-page bill of particulars from the Justice Department exposed his relationship with a powerful donor, a man who gave Mr. Menendez access to a world of private jets and island getaways.
Long before the legal case is resolved, Mr. Menendez may face judgment by voters who have learned of his efforts, prosecutors say, to help Mr. Melgen’s girlfriends from other countries obtain American visas.
In Union City, no longer an overwhelmingly Cuban-American enclave but a populous and diverse Hispanic community, few cared to offer a view of Mr. Menendez as the indictment was released. But the steady drip of reports about the lawmaker’s personal ethics appeared to have resonated with some.
“I think he’s a thief,” Tom Helou, a 68-year-old retiree, said. “You see him on TV, he fights for the people, but with these accusations — I don’t know.”
Hector Lopez, 74, who came to the United States from Cuba in 1980, offered a different view. Mr. Menendez, he said, had been a “very good” senator, particularly on issues related to Cuba. “For a long time, he’s been in politics, and had no trouble.”
“That’s good, to me,” he said.
A version of this article appears in print on April 5, 2015, on page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Menendez Has Record Of Overcoming Crises . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...

