Sign Up
Apr 10, 2015, 2:28pm PDT
Thank you for sharing. Your email has been sent.
Email address of friend (insert comma between multiple addresses):
Your email address:
STEVE WILHELM | PSBJ
Rep. Adam Smith talks about widespread distrust of the 12-nation Trans Pacific Partnership agreement.
The massive Trans Pacific Partnership is in “real trouble,” and much of that is because average voters find nothing in it for them.
That’s the view of Rep. Adam Smith , a Western Washington Democrat representing the Ninth Congressional District. He spoke during a University of Washington conference on intellectual property protection in India Friday, and touched on the controversial TPP in response to a question.
“I don’t have average constituents saying ‘Do pass the trade agreement,” he said. “I do have average constituents beating down my door, saying ‘Don’t you dare vote for that.’”
Regional debate about the 12-nation TPP trade agreement has been fiery recently, with the Seattle City Council last month unanimously voting to oppose it in the current form . Most large businesses and many government leaders support it.
Smith, who was on crutches after recent hip surgery, said a major reason for the anti-trade agreement stance is the huge disparity between the pay for people at the top of the corporate ladder, and those at the bottom.
Because of that, regular workers think the only benefits of the TPP will go to corporate owners.
“To our average person out there, TPP is another example of how corporations are for the super rich and not average people,” he said. “Does it make sense for CEOs to be making $40 to $50 million a year, when you have people working for you who don’t have health care?”
He said this issue of income disparity is so significant, that it’s understandable why so many workers see no reason to support it.
“How do we fix that so that when workers come into my office,” he said, “they think TPP is a good deal?”
Page 1
Industries:
Comments
If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
Inside Puget Sound Business Journal
Inside @ windermere President OB Jacobi's $3.25M home: http://t.co/a3Ln6QbMEH http://t.co/NSus8yD17g
Seattle International District's Panama Hotel deemed "national treasure" (slideshow). http://t.co/hY6hfdxIKq http://t.co/yy4pLzUHTt
Independent Sales Rep Flight Systems Automotive Group | Northwest United States

