Contributed by admin on May 26, 2015 at 8:26 pm
Livestreaming via your smartphone is the mobile tech world’s new darling in the social media space.
Periscope was launched in January for iOS and now four months later, Twitter’s app has finally dropped on the Android market.
Periscope announced that the app was live for Android via a blog post.
It’s free to use, supports KitKat 4.4 and later, and has some Material Design characteristics of Lollipop 5.0.
Although it took developers a few months to bring Periscope to Android, it might be worth the wait since the application proved to be very popular on iOS. Just what is Periscope all about, anyway? (There’s also a persistent, if wispy, rumor that Google may even buy Twitter, something both companies have declined to comment on.).
Bandwidth issues might prove more pressing than device fragmentation in several Asian territories. The feature will be displayed on the home screen so you can just tap it and get back to your stream.
“On Android notifications are a little bit different, ” she said.
These features are not available for iPhone users. And if you switch away from a broadcast to another app, you can return to it from a banner placed inside the notification drawer. Unlike the iOS version, a dedicated broadcast button is also on board.
Periscope on Android has a “Resume notification”, which lets you continue a broadcast where you left off in case it gets interrupted by a phone call or message. It is also integrated with Twitter, and users can send optional alerts to Twitter followers to watch these videos live. Haider returned to the flock in March and immediately started building the Periscope for Android app. The team had to deal with the usual fragmentation issues that comes with dealing with the multitude of screen sizes out there. Headlines were made last week over the first Periscope livestream coming out of North Korea courtesy of a visiting activist group. And then there are the millions of users streaming moments from their lives, from the most exciting to the completely mundane.
Twitter Launches Livestreaming App Periscope on Android
Recent Posts
Copyright © 2015 Rapid News Network. All Rights Reserved.

