Amid Bribery Charges, Bob Menendez Thanks Supportefs in Spanish-Language Video
(Photo : Youtube.com)
While Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J., prepares to battle federal bribery charges brought against him this week, the longtime Senator sent a video message this week in Spanish and English to his supporters thanking them for their support and vowing to fight the charges levied against him.
"I won't mince my words. Today has been a very difficult day for me. But it has been less difficult for me since I know that I have a clear conscience and I am strengthened by the unconditional support from so many people in New Jersey and from both political parties," Menendez said in the video.
"We have shared many difficult battles, and for that I am here today proud of the things we are accomplishing together, such as assuring that the victims of Hurricane Sandy have what they need to rebuild their lives, or guaranteeing the safety of our nation, or my struggle for justice and respect for immigrants through comprehensive immigration reform, or supporting families whose loves ones have autism."
Share This Story
Like Us on Facebook
Menendez, who held a press conference on Wednesday to address and maintain his innocence regarding the federal corruption charges against him, pleaded not guilty on Thursday to 14 criminal counts -- eight of which include bribery charges -- in connection to his relationship with Salomen Melgen, a wealthy Florida ophthalmologist and political donor.
Federal prosecutors have alleged that Menendez had engaged in several suspicious transactions, including intervening on behalf of Melgen's ICSSI company when Medicare officials accused Melgen of overbilling the agency, trips Menendez made as Melgen's guest, and stays at a Paris hotel paid for by the Florida doctor, among others.
Prosecutors also allege that Melgen made political contributions totaling more than $750,000 to political groups working to secure Menendez's U.S. Senate reelection in 2012 -- including $600,000 to Majority PAC, a super PAC which supported politicians running for Democratic Senate seats, the money earmarked for the New Jersey Senate race; Menendez was the sole candidate running under the Democratic ticket in the state at the time.
Menendez denied the charges in the Spanish-language video, stating that he spent most of his career fighting against such corruption.
"I began my career in public service fighting against corruption in government. I testified against very powerful people. I had to wear a bulletproof vest and received death threats. That's how I began my career, and this is not the way that my career will be stopped, because I always, always have obeyed the letter of the law," Menendez said.
"It saddens me that our justice system has failed in its most basic function: to filter information and dispel rumors. But this deception now will offer me the opportunity to finally prove and clear up any doubt that the charges presented ... behind a campaign almost three years old [made up] of insinuations and defamation are completely false.
"I'll never give up. And I'll never back down when the cause is just. From standing strong for our ally Israel to demanding the toughest sanctions against Iran to insisting on economic justice and fairness, you know that I fight for the issues we believe in, and I fight for the people of New   Jersey every single day. That's just who I am, and that's what I will continue to do," Menendez stated in his closing remarks.
As Latin Post reported , Latino leaders have spoken out this week issuing their support for Menendez. 
Janet Murguia, president and CEO of the National Council of La Raza (NCLR),  said  while she was saddened with the news concerning Menendez, the senator was owed the "benefit of the doubt" in the case.  
 
© 2015 Latin Post. All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
Subscribe to LatinPost!
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Most Read
1
2
3
5
6
7
2
4
5

