Michele Bachmann compares Barack Obama with Germanwings co-pilot Andreas Lubitz
Even by Michele Bachmann's extraordinary standards of liberal-baiting or gaffe making – based on your point of view - the Tea Celebration queen and former White Property hopeful has surpassed herself. In possibly her most offensive comments to date,...
Even by Michele Bachmann's extraordinary standards of liberal-baiting or gaffe making – based on your point of view - the Tea Celebration queen and former White Property hopeful has surpassed herself.
In possibly her most offensive comments to date, the Republican politician has compared Barack Obama with Andreas Lubitz, the suicidal Germanwings co-pilot
&#x201cWith his Iran deal, Barack Obama is for the 300 million souls of the United States what Andreas Lubitz was for the 150 souls on the German Wings flight - a deranged pilot flying his entire nation into the rocks,” she posted on her Facebook web page as talks in Lausanne neared their climax.
&#x201cAfter the truth, amongst the smouldering remains of American cities, the shocked survivors will ask, why did he do it?”
Reaction was swift and close to unanimous. Germans, Americans and other nationalities all added their outrage in comments posted on her web page.
Al Ehks wrote: &#x201cAs a German who was deeply affected by the Germanwings crash last week, I have to ask you what on Earth gives you the ideal to evaluate the US president to Andreas Lubitz?”
Action Press/Rex Capabilities
Jason Sikes stated: &#x201cI'm embarrassed for this country that you had been ever elected to larger office.”
Mrs Bachman has been a blunt critic of US attempts at discover a deal with Iran more than its nuclear programme. She claimed she utilised final year's White Property Christmas Party as a likelihood to pass her wisdom straight to Mr Obama himself.
&#x201cI turned to the president and I said, one thing to the effect of, 'Mr. President, you need to bomb the Iranian nuclear facilities, for the reason that if you never, Iran will have a nuclear weapon on your watch and the course of world history will modify,'" she said.
A stele and flowers laid in memory of the victims are placed in the location where the Germanwings jetliner crashed in the French Alps, in Le Vernet, France (Christopher Ena/AP)
Mrs Bachmann stepped down as a member of Congress for Minnesota at the commence of the year, soon after an unsuccessful bid to safe the Republican nomination for the 2012 election.
• Michele Bachmann's best 5 quotes
She distinguished her campaign with a severe of gaffes.
One of the significantly less offensive came when she visited Waterloo, Iowa, and announced how thrilled she was to be in the hometown of John Wayne, not realising it was the hometown of the other John Wayne – John Wayne Gacey who murdered 33 men and women and hid their remains beneath his home.
With her disappearance from the national scene, many believed they had detected the true explanation for her Iran outburst.
"Posting outrageous points in a pathetic attempt to keep relevant?" posted Lynda Anderson.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
04 April 2015 Saturday 14:06
80 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.

