Baton Rouge
Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Baton Rouge celebrates LGBT community with Equality March
Some language in Louisiana's controversial religious freedom bill might change.
Louisiana's  religious freedom bill  could lose some of the controversial language that has concerned the LGBT community and brought the legislation  national attention .
The bill's sponsor, state Rep. Mike Johnson, may strike a passage in  the bill  thought to allow private companies to not offer the same benefits to legally-recognized same-sex married couples as other married couples, on the basis of a religious objection. The rest of the bill deals with government regulation of businesses based on their view of marriage, and would remain the same. 
Same-sex marriage isn't legal in Louisiana now, so companies are free to deny same-sex married couples benefits they might offer to other married people currently. Johnson said he was just trying to reiterate that existing law in  his bill , but acknowledged some of the legislative language had created a fuss.
"It seems to be causing more confusion that it is worth," said Johnson.
Still, existing marriage laws could be changing soon if a U.S. Supreme Court ruling forces Louisiana to recognize same-sex couples this summer. Many people believe Johnson filed his legislation ahead of the court's ruling, to try and protect businesses that might not want to recognize same-sex marriages.
"This bill is anticipating a Supreme Court ruling [in favor of same-sex marriage] in June," said Carl Esbeck, a religious liberty at the University of Missouri School of Law, about the bill, "That is not a foolish anticipation." 
For his part, Johnson said the bill is not a about the coming Supreme Court decision. Rather, it's more in reaction to the numerous legal challenges surrounding marriage that have popped up across the country over the past two years. 
"I think it would be wise for us to do this, regardless of what the Supreme Court does," he said. 
The bill includes a number of provisions that would prohibit state government from yanking tax benefits, licenses and state government contracts from business owners based on their views about marriage. Johnson said it is intended to protect people on both sides of the same-sex marriage issue. 
But the LGBT advocates are still worried about the legislation, even if Johnson strikes the language regarding marriage benefits. Equality Louisiana, a pro-LGBT group, encouraged people across the state to call Johnson's office Monday (April 6) and ask the state lawmaker to drop the bill. 
"We would hope he would take a look at the bill and just to decide to pull it from consideration," said Matthew Patterson, with Equality Louisiana. 
Legal experts have said the bill is broad enough that it could technically encompass more than just religious objections over same-sex couples. People with moral objections to divorcees who remarry or interfaith relationships might be able to use the bill to deny recognition, should it become law. 
Johnson said this seems like a stretch -- a red herring raised by people who don't like the bill. Realistically, most businesses already recognize the new marriages of previously-divorced people. "It doesn't seem like a practical problem," he said. 
The legislator is likely to face more scrutiny about his proposal moving forward. Religious protection laws in Indiana and Arkansas drew tremendous amount of backlash for being perceived as anti-LGBT. Governors in both of those states ended up calling for tweaks to their legislation -- to clarify that they didn't sanction discrimination against gay and transgendered people.
. . . . . .
Julia O'Donoghue  is a state politics reporter based in  Baton Rouge . She can be reached at jodonoghue@nola.com or on Twitter at  @jsodonoghue . Please consider following us on Facebook at  NOLA.com  and  NOLA.com-Baton Rouge.
Breaking News/Live events
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for signing up!
Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you dont' see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Video          of the Day
© 2015 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

