Immigration Reform News: City Mayors Push Courts to Allow Obama's Executive Order on Immigration to Move Forward
Leaders from 73 different cities and counties across the country signed on to a legal brief filed on Monday backing President Obama's executive actions on immigration and asking an appeals court to allow the president's deportation relief policies to move forward.
Back in February, a Texas district judge issued a temporary injunction that stalled the implementation of Obama's executive actions, which would protect up to 5 million undocumented residents from being deported, reports The Hill .
The federal judge issued the preliminary injunction while a lawsuit challenging the policies' constitutionality is being considered. According to the 26 states that filed the suit, the relief programs would hurt their states and violate the Constitution.
Share This Story
Like Us on Facebook
However, several mayors of majors cities, including New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, joined together to push the court to take action on behalf of immigrant families.
"Continuing to delay implementation of the president's executive action on immigration hurts our economy and puts families at risk," said NYC Mayor de Blasio, who spearheaded the effort with LA Mayor Garcetti, in a statement, reports The Huffington Post .
"Cities are where immigrants live, and cities are where the president's executive action will be successfully implemented," he continued. "Our cities are united, and we will fight for the immigration reform this nation needs and deserves -- whether in the courtroom, in Congress, or in our communities. Make no mistake about it: our voices will be heard."
The brief argues that Obama's immigration actions would increase local tax revenue and boost local economies by issuing more work permits to eligible immigrants. Plus, the brief claims that the orders would be good for public safety, while helping immigrants to integrate and preventing families from being separated.
"They will help keep families together, increase safety in our communities, and maximize the contributions that immigrants make every day in every part of our city," said Mayor Emanuel.
Subscribe to LatinPost!
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Most Read
1
2
3
5
6
7
2
4
5

