By James Geddes ,      Tech Times  |  May 26, 10:49 PM
Best Buy has announced that it is now taking preorders for the LG G4. The retailer is offering a free $100 gift card with purchase, in addition to LG's free microSD card, battery and charging cradle.
(Photo : Best Buy | Tech Times)
Retailer Best Buy is looking to tempt LG G4 customers into preordering the smartphone by offering a $100 Best Buy gift card with the order.
Smartphone fans will soon have a new flagship device to consider in the form of the LG G4. The handset will directly compete with Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, Samsung's Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge and the HTC One M9 in the high-end smartphone arena.
The LG G4 offers two coveted features Android fans have enjoyed and boasted about through the years when compared with Apple's iPhone lineup — a removable battery and microSD expansion slot. Samsung didn't please fans when it announced the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge would be the first flagship Galaxy S smartphones to not include a user-removable battery or microSD expansion slot. While HTC offers the One M9 with an expansion slot, the handset's aluminum case is completely sealed like Samsung's latest smartphones.
LG is hoping to sway consumers into purchasing the only flagship smartphone that still includes both a removable battery and microSD expansion slot. The G4 ships with a large 3000 mAh removable battery, and its microSD expansion slot will allow users to expand the included 32 GB of internal storage via up to 2 TB microSD cards.
LG recently announced that it would offer early U.S. G4 customers a free 32 GB microSD card, extra 3000 mAh battery and battery charging cradle when they purchased the phone between May 22 and June 21. In an attempt to attract customers into purchasing an LG G4 through them, Best Buy has announced it will sweeten that deal even further by including a $100 Best Buy gift card when customers preorder the smartphone online.
 
Tech Times Subscribeclose
Enjoyed reading this story? For more awesome news, reviews, features and analyses, subscribe to Tech Times newsletter. We value your privacy and we will never sell or distribute your email or personal data to third party advertisers.
Related Articles
Don't Miss
Smartphone
Smartphone
Trending
Subscribe to Tech Times


LG G4 Release Date News: Price And Availability Details Announced
The LG G4 won’t be available at most carriers until June, but those looking to purchase LG’s latest flagship can get the rundown on its price and availability right now.
LG G4 is expected to contend with the Samsung Galaxy S6 on the market, largely because of its removable back panel and its 16-megapixel rear camera. The removable back panel will allow users to remove and change the device’s battery. It will also let users install extra internal storage with a MicroSD card. This feature was removed from the Galaxy S6 in exchange for a more premium metal and glass unibody design. However, many Samsung fans have complained about the lack of MicroSD expansion on the Galaxy S6.
LG hopes to snatch some of Samsung’s unsatisfied followers , and has outfitted the LG G4 with a genuine leather back panel as a premium design option. Other, non-leather design options include metallic gray, ceramic white and shiny gold. 
To capitalize on the competition with Samsung, LG is offering the LG G4 in a bundle that includes a 32GB MicroSD card, an extra 3,000mAh battery and a battery-charging cradle.
Other hardware features on the LG G4 include a Quad HD (2560 x 1440 resolution) display, Qualcomm Snapdragon 808 chip, 3GB of RAM memory and 32GB of internal storage, as well as a 3,000mAh battery.
If you’re interested in purchasing the LG G4, take a look at when the device will be available for the major U.S. carriers. The smartphone will be on sale on most networks by the end of next week.
 T-Mobile
T-Mobile is offering the LG G4 online starting May 27 and in stores staring June 3. Customers can purchase the LG G4 through T-Mobile’s Simple Choice plan for $0 down and $24.99 per month for 24 months, or $599.76 in total.
Those who purchase T-Mobile’s LG G4 by June 21 can receive a 128GB MicroSD card for their smartphone. Customers should; however, keep in mind that they must redeem the offer online by July 6.
AT&T
AT&T has not yet announced pricing or availability details for the LG G4. It will likely release on the network sometime in June for $199.99 with a two-year contract. AT&T will have custom pricing for its Next payment plan.
Best Buy has begun accepting preorders for the LG G4, indicating different release dates for each carrier model. The AT&T LG G4 will be available at Best Buy starting June 12, selling for $199.99 with a two-year contract.
Verizon
Verizon is offering the LG G4 starting June 4. The carrier has not yet announced pricing details for the smartphone, but it will likely sell for $199.99 with a two-year contract. Verizon will have custom pricing for its Edge payment plan.
Sprint
Sprint is offering the LG G4 starting June 5 for $199.99 with a  two-year contract  and for $599.99 off contract. Customers can also purchase the LG G4 through Sprint’s leasing program, paying $18 per month for 24 months or $28 per month for 12 months with the option to upgrade to a new device after 12 months.
U.S. Cellular
U.S. Cellular is offering the LG G4 in Gold, Metallic Gray and Genuine Black Leather design options starting June 4. Customers can preorder the device starting May 29. The LG G4 will sell on U.S. Cellular for $199.99 with a two-year contract. Customers can also purchase the device through U.S. Cellular’s payment plan, paying 24 monthly installments of $29.50 for the Gold and Metallic Gray options or $30.50 monthly installments for the Genuine Black Leather option.
Questions, comments or issues? Email me at f.agomuoh@idigitaltimes.com .
Disney Infinity 3.0 Screenshots Give Fans First Look At Star Wars: Twilight Of the Republic Play Set
New Disney Infinity 3.0 screenshots have been released, alongside details on the first of several Disney Infinity 3.0 play sets headed to stores later this year, and we've rounded them all up in one spot.
Tue, 05/26/2015 - 21:33
4.0
Top iDT Videos

