By James Geddes ,      Tech Times  |  May 26, 10:49 PM
Best Buy has announced that it is now taking preorders for the LG G4. The retailer is offering a free $100 gift card with purchase, in addition to LG's free microSD card, battery and charging cradle.
(Photo : Best Buy | Tech Times)
Retailer Best Buy is looking to tempt LG G4 customers into preordering the smartphone by offering a $100 Best Buy gift card with the order.
Smartphone fans will soon have a new flagship device to consider in the form of the LG G4. The handset will directly compete with Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, Samsung's Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge and the HTC One M9 in the high-end smartphone arena.
The LG G4 offers two coveted features Android fans have enjoyed and boasted about through the years when compared with Apple's iPhone lineup — a removable battery and microSD expansion slot. Samsung didn't please fans when it announced the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge would be the first flagship Galaxy S smartphones to not include a user-removable battery or microSD expansion slot. While HTC offers the One M9 with an expansion slot, the handset's aluminum case is completely sealed like Samsung's latest smartphones.
LG is hoping to sway consumers into purchasing the only flagship smartphone that still includes both a removable battery and microSD expansion slot. The G4 ships with a large 3000 mAh removable battery, and its microSD expansion slot will allow users to expand the included 32 GB of internal storage via up to 2 TB microSD cards.
LG recently announced that it would offer early U.S. G4 customers a free 32 GB microSD card, extra 3000 mAh battery and battery charging cradle when they purchased the phone between May 22 and June 21. In an attempt to attract customers into purchasing an LG G4 through them, Best Buy has announced it will sweeten that deal even further by including a $100 Best Buy gift card when customers preorder the smartphone online.
 
Tech Times Subscribeclose
Enjoyed reading this story? For more awesome news, reviews, features and analyses, subscribe to Tech Times newsletter. We value your privacy and we will never sell or distribute your email or personal data to third party advertisers.
Related Articles
Don't Miss
Smartphone
Smartphone
Trending
Subscribe to Tech Times


May 26, 2015
Starting May 27, those looking for a brand new smartphone (that isn't a fruit or a Samsung) may very well consider LG's new flagship, the G4 , as it will now be available on T-Mobile. The "un-carrier" will start selling the new smartphone on their network and start shipping it by June 3, making you (if you do decide to get one) one of the first to own the device, at least in North America.
Another great offer that T-Mobile is giving their subscribers is that if you buy the LG G4 from them starting May 27, you will also get a free and  huge memory upgrade. In partnership with LG, they will be giving you a free 128GB SD memory card so that you'll be able to use your new smartphone the way you want it to, without thinking of you're running out of storage space or something. It's only through T-Mobile where you'll be able to get the special LG G4 with the leather brown rear-cover.
T-Mobile also offers subscribers their usual benefits, like unlimited talk, text, and data through its Simple Choice plans. You can also now make calls over Wi-Fi, enjoy Music Freedom or free live music streaming (through Rhapsody unRadio), save up your unused data with Data Stash, and other T-Mobile exclusive offers. If you're still not sure about whether or not you'll get the LG G4, you can try it out in the last legs of the preview tour which will take the smartphone into major US cities (Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco, Philadelphia and Seattle)  in the next few weeks.
You'll be able to get the LG G4 from T-Mobile at $0 down, paying just $24.99 in the next 24 months. Check out our closer look at the LG G4 here so you can also see if this is a deal you're interested in or if the smartphone is worth your money.
SOURCE: T-Mobile
Story Timeline
Recent Stories
© 2007-2014 Android Community, All Rights Reserved. - Part of R3 Media LLC
Site Information

