By James Geddes ,      Tech Times  |  May 26, 10:49 PM
Best Buy has announced that it is now taking preorders for the LG G4. The retailer is offering a free $100 gift card with purchase, in addition to LG's free microSD card, battery and charging cradle.
(Photo : Best Buy | Tech Times)
Retailer Best Buy is looking to tempt LG G4 customers into preordering the smartphone by offering a $100 Best Buy gift card with the order.
Smartphone fans will soon have a new flagship device to consider in the form of the LG G4. The handset will directly compete with Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, Samsung's Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge and the HTC One M9 in the high-end smartphone arena.
The LG G4 offers two coveted features Android fans have enjoyed and boasted about through the years when compared with Apple's iPhone lineup — a removable battery and microSD expansion slot. Samsung didn't please fans when it announced the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge would be the first flagship Galaxy S smartphones to not include a user-removable battery or microSD expansion slot. While HTC offers the One M9 with an expansion slot, the handset's aluminum case is completely sealed like Samsung's latest smartphones.
LG is hoping to sway consumers into purchasing the only flagship smartphone that still includes both a removable battery and microSD expansion slot. The G4 ships with a large 3000 mAh removable battery, and its microSD expansion slot will allow users to expand the included 32 GB of internal storage via up to 2 TB microSD cards.
LG recently announced that it would offer early U.S. G4 customers a free 32 GB microSD card, extra 3000 mAh battery and battery charging cradle when they purchased the phone between May 22 and June 21. In an attempt to attract customers into purchasing an LG G4 through them, Best Buy has announced it will sweeten that deal even further by including a $100 Best Buy gift card when customers preorder the smartphone online.
 
Tech Times Subscribeclose
Enjoyed reading this story? For more awesome news, reviews, features and analyses, subscribe to Tech Times newsletter. We value your privacy and we will never sell or distribute your email or personal data to third party advertisers.
Related Articles
Don't Miss
Smartphone
Smartphone
Trending
Subscribe to Tech Times


A free battery charging cradle is included in the offer too
All major carriers in the United States will be launching the LG G4 in the next couple of days. Some will start pre-orders for the smartphone, while other will actually sell it before the month's end.
US Cellular announced a few days ago that it will start taking LG G4 pre-orders on May 29, but did not share any details on pricing and availability.
Today, the carrier confirmed that in two days from now, customers will be able to pre-order the LG G4 online. In addition, US Cellular announced the LG G4 will be available for purchase at brick and mortar stores from June 4.
Potential customers will be able to pick this one up for $0 down and monthly payments of $29.50 if they choose the Gold or Metallic Gray versions. For the Black Leather LG G4, customers will have to come up with $30.50 monthly payments.
The carrier offers an additional option, which will allow customers to grab the LG G4 for $200 with a two-year agreement.
The limited time promotion ends on June 21
But that's not all. As part of a limited time promotion , customers who purchase the G4 until June 21 will also received a 32GB memory card, an extra removable battery and a batter charging cradle for free.
If you decide to opt for another carrier, then you should know that T-Mobile will start selling the LG G4 later today and those who purchase it will receive a 128GB memory card for free.
The G4 will ship with Android 5.0 Lollipop and LG Optimus UX 4.0 UI on top. On the inside, LG has decided to put a hexa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 808 processor instead of the Snapdragon 810 CPU.
LG G4 comes with 32GB of internal memory inside, but depending from where you get the smartphone you will be able to expand storage by either 32GB or 128GB.
Hot right now  ·  Latest news
submit
   LG G4
New Mobile Apps
Follow
13K
© 2001-2015 Softpedia. All rights reserved. Softpedia® and the Softpedia® logo are registered trademarks of SoftNews NET SRL.      We use cookies to offer you a complete experience. Learn more: Privacy policy .
news tip

