By James Geddes ,      Tech Times  |  May 26, 10:49 PM
Best Buy has announced that it is now taking preorders for the LG G4. The retailer is offering a free $100 gift card with purchase, in addition to LG's free microSD card, battery and charging cradle.
(Photo : Best Buy | Tech Times)
Retailer Best Buy is looking to tempt LG G4 customers into preordering the smartphone by offering a $100 Best Buy gift card with the order.
Smartphone fans will soon have a new flagship device to consider in the form of the LG G4. The handset will directly compete with Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, Samsung's Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge and the HTC One M9 in the high-end smartphone arena.
The LG G4 offers two coveted features Android fans have enjoyed and boasted about through the years when compared with Apple's iPhone lineup — a removable battery and microSD expansion slot. Samsung didn't please fans when it announced the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge would be the first flagship Galaxy S smartphones to not include a user-removable battery or microSD expansion slot. While HTC offers the One M9 with an expansion slot, the handset's aluminum case is completely sealed like Samsung's latest smartphones.
LG is hoping to sway consumers into purchasing the only flagship smartphone that still includes both a removable battery and microSD expansion slot. The G4 ships with a large 3000 mAh removable battery, and its microSD expansion slot will allow users to expand the included 32 GB of internal storage via up to 2 TB microSD cards.
LG recently announced that it would offer early U.S. G4 customers a free 32 GB microSD card, extra 3000 mAh battery and battery charging cradle when they purchased the phone between May 22 and June 21. In an attempt to attract customers into purchasing an LG G4 through them, Best Buy has announced it will sweeten that deal even further by including a $100 Best Buy gift card when customers preorder the smartphone online.
 
Tech Times Subscribeclose
Enjoyed reading this story? For more awesome news, reviews, features and analyses, subscribe to Tech Times newsletter. We value your privacy and we will never sell or distribute your email or personal data to third party advertisers.
Related Articles
Don't Miss
Smartphone
Smartphone
Trending
Subscribe to Tech Times

