Daily News Florida Sen. Marco Rubio took aim Friday at President Obama and Washington lawmakers over gun control measures during a speech at the National Rifle Association’s annual meeting in Tennessee.
Political guns? GOP hopefuls just take swipes at Obama, Clinton at nationwide NRA convention
Florida Sen. Marco Rubio took aim Friday at President Obama and Washington lawmakers over gun control measures during a speech at the National Rifle Association’s annual meeting in Tennessee.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Rubio, who is envisioned to formally enter the race for the White Dwelling on Monday, was amid a group of possible GOP presidential candidates talking at the Nashville conference.
Rubio’s anti-gun management remarks turned into wide criticism of Obama, whom he called “a weak president” and stated the only matter Obama strengthened for the duration of his time in the Oval Business office “has been his own illegal power.”
Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker took a jab at former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s report, telling attendees, “She basically gave Russia a reset button! A reset button!”
“I wonder what her campaign slogan will be?” Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal questioned the group: “It may well be - what change does it make?”
Clinton is expected to announce her next operate for the presidency on Sunday.
The NRA has develop into a countrywide phase for Republicans thinking about a run for the Oval Workplace. This 12 months, nearly 70,000 persons are expected to take part in the 3-day gathering in Nashville.
Wayne LaPierre, the NRA’s CEO, reported the gun lobby would stand “shoulder to shoulder” to reduce Clinton from staying the country’s future president.
The NRA’s once-a-year meeting is the 3rd accumulating of possible GOP hopefuls this calendar year. All of the speakers at the party who have held community office also have an A-rating from the politically potent gun rights firm.
NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Barker stated the lineup of speakers “all provide one of a kind existence experiences” to the stage.
Amid the other headliners: From Texas, Sen. Ted Cruz and previous Gov. Rick Perry from Florida, former Gov. Jeb Bush former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and neurosurgeon Ben Carson.
Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, who officially launched his presidential marketing campaign Tuesday, did not go to owing to a campaign party in Iowa. New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who has a C-rating from the NRA, also did not show up at.
Former vice presidential applicant Sarah Palin and Indiana Gov. Mike Pence have been scheduled to show up at but canceled their appearances.
Opposing teams are scheduling rallies close to the NRA celebration Saturday to press for much more gun security legal guidelines.
Fox News' Carl Cameron and The Linked Push contributed to this report.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers
11 April 2015 Saturday 08:24

