Recent
Saved
»
Gov. Scott Walker, shown speaking March 16 at the Governor's Conference on Tourism in La Crosse.
Jessie Opoien covers state government and politics for the Capital Times. She joined the Cap Times in 2013 and has also covered Madison life, race relations, culture and music. She has also covered education and politics for the Oshkosh Northwestern.
Get the Cap Times app for your smartphone
Get news alerts delivered to your inbox.
Cap Times Headlines Sent each morning at 6
Cap Times Opinion Sent each morning at 11
Cap Times Recap "In Case You Missed It" Sent each afternoon at 5
 Madison.com Features Sent each morning at 6
 Madison.com Food & Drink Sent each Thursday morning at 11
 Madison.com Movies Sent each Friday morning at 9
Email:
 
That means information about who’s receiving state tax credits, how much they’re receiving and whether they’re meeting state-imposed goals would still be available to anyone seeking it.
Open government advocates have raised questions about the records policy for the Forward Wisconsin Development Authority, the product of the proposed merger, after the Legislative Fiscal Bureau released its analysis of Walker’s two-year budget. The LFB analysis appeared to conflict in some areas with the text of the budget bill , leading some to wonder whether the new policy would preclude the release of previously available information.
"The budget does not preclude releasing names of recipients of state dollars — that information will continue to be available. We are committed to maintaining transparency," said Walker spokeswoman Laurel Patrick. "The governor’s budget proposal ensures that financial and payroll data received by FWDA is protected to the same extent that sensitive personal and financial information received by WHEDA is already protected under current law. This will apply to personal and financial information provided by applicants for grants, tax credits, or other assistance from FWDA. It will not exempt names of award recipients, which is currently available and will continue to be available."
That personal and financial information is already considered confidential by WEDC under current law. In some cases, information about businesses working with WEDC will be temporarily withheld from records requests if an agreement between the business and the agency hasn’t yet been reached.
But Bill Lueders, president of the Wisconsin Freedom of Information Council , questioned the necessity of any changes creating special cases or exemptions for records.
"It is always of concern when the laws governing access to public information are changed," Lueders said. "The state's economic development authority has been faulted for poor outcomes and loose oversight. It should be subject to a greater level of scrutiny, not less."
He noted that Wisconsin’s open records law already allows public agencies to withhold records if they can justify doing so. But the proposed policy for FWDA would create a categorical exemption for personal and financial records regardless of whether the agency can make the case that releasing that information would do more harm than good.
“Why shouldn't the state simply say the new FWDA is subject to the open records and open meetings laws, like other public and quasi-governmental agencies?” Lueders asked.
Codifying protections in statute will help the agency fulfill its mission of encouraging economic development in the state, Patrick said.
"As more and more data is required from companies seeking or receiving awards, it is imperative that FWDA can provide assurances of confidentiality for submitted financials and employee data that may be shared with FWDA as a result of a contractual compliance requirement," Patrick said.
According to Michael Gallagher, the drafting attorney who wrote the budget provisions in question, under the budget bill, all records of FWDA or any corporation created by FWDA would be open to the public, with the following exceptions: "1) Records FWDA determines must remain confidential to protect the competitive nature of a pending grant, loan, or economic development or housing project; 2) Records consisting of personal or financial information provided by a person seeking a grant, loan, tax credit, or other assistance from FWDA; or 3) Records on the In Force Network or other similar customer relationship management system (CRM) maintained by FWDA, unless the information was published to the In Force Network or other CRM by FWDA or another economic development organization."
The In Force Network is a customer relationship management system currently maintained by WEDC.
WEDC under the microscope
WEDC records were put under the microscope last month when Yahoo News reported that John Menard, Wisconsin’s wealthiest citizen, had contributed $1.5 million to the Wisconsin Club for Growth in an effort to boost Walker’s 2012 recall campaign.
The Yahoo report noted that Menards — Menard's big box home improvement store chain — was awarded up to $1.8 million in tax credits by WEDC in 2013 and 2014.
Patrick noted then that Menards had been eligible for $1.5 million in tax credits during Democratic former Gov. Jim Doyle's time in office, through the former Department of Commerce. The company received $1 million, as it failed to meet some requirements of the contract.
Under the 2013 and 2014 contracts with WEDC, Menards has earned a combined total of $164,500 under both contracts, Patrick said.
"The tax credits were strictly performance based with strong contractual requirements to meet performance objectives. WEDC contracts for tax credits, grants and awards are tied to job creation, job retention and/or capital investment," Patrick said in March.
She added that companies failing to fulfill their contractual obligations are subject to clawbacks or denial of tax credit claims.
"In the case of tax credits, they are earned after WEDC staff confirms performance metrics have been met, as is the case with the tax credits that Menard received tied to job creation," she said.
Patrick confirmed that information in that vein — who’s been given tax credit awards, the size of the awards, the company’s progress in meeting requirements and goals set by the agency — would all continue to be available under the FWDA records policy.
"Currently, WEDC publishes all of that information online on its performance database (updated quarterly​)  and the governor’s FWDA proposal will continue this level of access, including providing the Audit Bureau and Fiscal Bureau with access to all FWDA records," Patrick said. "The proposed FWDA under Gov. Walker’s budget ensures the authority will remain transparent and accountable."
Attorney Jenni Dye, research director for the liberal group One Wisconsin Now, has extensive experience dealing with WEDC records . The organization produced an analysis of WEDC awards in May 2014, published in a report called " W is for WEDC ."
Dye said the changes proposed in the budget seem to be in line with the current practice, but she still has some concerns.
"Including these proposed exemptions to the open records law in the statutes could potentially allow a WEDC attorney to choose a more aggressive interpretation on withholding information, and that makes it harder for the public to know what is going on at an agency that has repeatedly proven to be rife with incompetence, if not corruption," Dye said. "Even if an agency is ultimately determined to be wrong in their refusal to release records, you'd still have to sue to obtain the records, and that is something we and many others would have a hard time doing or funding. The harm is that it increases the burden on those seeking transparency and the need for litigation in order to obtain what should be transparent public records."
Transparency "vitally important"
Lueders questioned why an agency’s records policy is being dealt with in the state budget in the first place.
Assembly Minority Leader Peter Barca, D-Kenosha, went one step further, suggesting the merger itself should be taken up in separate legislation.
At his request, the WEDC board will discuss the implications of the merger at its next meeting, he said. That discussion will include accessibility of records. Barca said it’s "more important than ever" that the public have greater access to the agency's internal workings.
Walker converted the Department of Commerce to the the quasi-public WEDC in 2011, shortly after he took office. It was one of the governor's top priorities, touted as a way to spur job growth in Wisconsin.
The agency's launch was a rocky one and it has been mired in problems with accounting failures and high turnover since its inception.
After the merger with WHEDA called for in Walker’s 2015-17 budget , elected officials, including the governor, would no longer sit on the board. Walker currently serves as chairman of the WEDC board.
WEDC is charged with spurring economic development and job creation in Wisconsin. WHEDA offers financing for low-income housing and boosts other agricultural and business development. Elected officials sit on the boards of both agencies.
"The Walker administration did such a horrendous job with planning for a transition from Commerce to WEDC that it worries me enormously that we’re going to have a similar experience if in fact this goes through," Barca said, adding that changes of this magnitude should be taken up in separate legislation, outside the budget.
He said it’s wrong to consider merging two major agencies without at least one public hearing on the matter alone, noting that anyone wishing to offer input would have to speak at a Joint Finance Committee hearing, where a host of other contentious budget issues would also be discussed.
No reports on the proposed transition have been provided to WEDC board members yet, Barca said, adding that Walker has yet to make a solid case for why he’s pushing the merger.
The governor's office said in January that consolidating some state agencies would result in "marginal savings," after Walker floated the possibility in his State of the State address.
It’s "vitally important" for taxpayers to have access to information about where their money is going, Barca said.
"They have a right to know that the money that’s being given out was done so in a forthright manner that actually is going to help the creation of new jobs in the state," Barca said.
He noted that some states with less transparency have run into problems with funds or special privileges being doled out to campaign donors.
OWN is quick to point to its 2014 analysis, which found that recipients of WEDC aid donated more than $1 million directly to Walker's campaign, along with $1 million to the Republican Governors Association. Those donors received nearly 60 percent of economic development dollars.
Patrick, the governor's spokeswoman, stressed in March that "WEDC contracts for tax credits, grants and awards are tied to job creation, job retentions and/or capital investment."
She stresses now that the governor’s administration remains committed to providing transparency in the state’s jobs agency, whether through WEDC or FWDA.
Without that transparency, Barca said, it would be a challenge to bolster the public’s confidence in the state’s job creation efforts, noting that Wisconsin ranked 40th in private-sector job growth for the 12-month period that ended in September according to the latest numbers from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The state's job growth has lagged the national average since July 2011, six months after Walker took office. But the governor is quick to point to a decrease in the state's unemployment — from 8.1 percent to 4.8 percent — as a sign Wisconsin is on the right track.
“Obviously, being 40th in the nation, I doubt people have a great deal of confidence in this agency,” Barca said.
Share your opinion on this topic by sending a letter to the editor to  tctvoice@madison.com . Include your full name, hometown and phone number. Your name and town will be published. The phone number is for verification purposes only. Please keep your letter to 250 words or less.
Copyright 2015 madison.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with host.madison.com account:
Username & Password Required!

