What is my password?
Please enter the email address associated with your Investors.com account below and a temporary password will be emailed to you.
Processing...
 
Mon, Apr 13 2015 00:00:00 EA01_A1MON
BY ANDREA RIQUIER , INVESTOR'S BUSINESS DAILY
04:32 PM ET
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel claimed victory Tuesday night in a hard-won re-election campaign, thanking "the Second City that voted for a second term and a second chance."
Emanuel, a Democrat, told supporters, "Being mayor of the city of Chicago is ... the greatest job in the world."
It may be one of the hardest as well. Chicago is not Detroit, public finance professionals insist. It has a vibrant economy and a booming downtown, thanks in part to Emanuel's efforts to attract businesses.
But its financial woes have mounted despite Emanuel's efforts to rein them in. Years, perhaps even decades, of past financial sins all seem to be coming home to roost now.
Chicago's pension funds have an average of about one-third of necessary funding, a total liability estimated at anywhere from $20 billion to $30 billion. Emanuel's attempts to reform two of the four plans were challenged in court by retirees.
Pension Bill Doubles In 2016
Meanwhile, statutorily required increases in annual payments to the pension funds go into effect in 2016, totaling nearly an extra $550 million per year. It's an attempt to make up for years of chronic underfunding: Contributions from the city averaged 35% of what actuaries deemed necessary in 2012 and 34% in 2013, according to a recent bond offering statement.
Moody's Investors Service estimated in a 2013 report that fixed costs, like pension contributions and debt service, could soon eat up more than half the city's operating budget, up from about 15% of the 2015 budget.
The outsized pension liability, among other challenges, prompted a series of credit rating downgrades, including one by Moody's in February to Baa2, just two notches above junk, its third cut in less than two years. The downgrade to such a low rating — even as Fitch Ratings and S&P maintain slightly higher ratings — could make possible the termination of bank-held interest rate swaps, possibly costing the city over $100 million. The city reportedly is negotiating those deals with banks.
Still, all three agencies maintain negative outlooks on the city, which means a significant risk of future downgrades and higher borrowing costs. Standard & Poor's on Thursday issued a report warning of a possible multi-notch downgrade if Chicago fails to make the necessary changes to address the budget and pension gaps.
Emanuel has made good progress, said Matt Fabian, partner with industry group Municipal Market Analytics. "The city's better off than it was two years ago," he said in an interview.
I am a current subscriber and need to register on
     Investors.com.
I am not a current subscriber and want to register
     for free membership on Investors.com.
 
Â© 2015 MarketSmith, Incorporated. Charts provided by MarketSmith are used by IBD under license agreement. MarketSmith is a registered trademark of MarketSmith, Incorporated.
 

