Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Home Science Madagascar: Sanctuary For 11 Exotic, Unique, Vibrant And Extremely Rare “Panther Chameleon...
Madagascar: Sanctuary For 11 Exotic, Unique, Vibrant And Extremely Rare “Panther Chameleon Species”
Image credit: BlueChameleon.org
Madagascar, once again, proves its mega biodiversity with the amazing and unique species it gives home to. The place is popular for housing extraordinary species that even made it an inspiration for a Pixar movie. And just recently, an expedition led scientists to discover that the remote island of Madagascar contains 11 new and different colorful species of panther chameleons, which are only found in the island.
Madagascar faced rough times during the past decades with increasing deforestation and illegal attack on its native species. The researchers took careful notice of panther chameleon species as it has been reported to suffer greatly than other species on the island.
During the course of their expedition, the team traveled from East to West to collect blood samples from 324 organisms, which were photographed also for documentation. The main objective of the study is to discover the unique genetic keys responsible for the chameleon’s color changing ability.
The study was conducted at the University of Geneva. Each blood sample was subjected to DNA sequencing and analysis. They had the hypothesis that chameleons have a dominant color mainly dependent on its geographical origin and the tight genetic structure among generations showing that interbreeding is very low among populations of these species. And the team was surprised to find out that the organisms did not only came from one species, but rather 11 different species.
Due to their discovery, each new chameleon species should be given individual management because they comprise a different part of the island’s biodiversity. Furthermore, they created a visual classification key that may help biologists identify each species from one another. Trade managers will also have a basis to prevent over-harvesting of local populations.
The team hopes that this discovery will increase the conservation efforts for chameleon species and many people should be aware that Madagascar is home to many fragile species that need care.
The findings of the study were published in the journal Molecular Ecology.
Next article
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Dailytimesgazette.com is the hub of news. We provide you with the latest happening news straight from the heart of the world.
Recent Articles

