A
A
A
John Locher/AP
Karen Williams, daughter of B.B. King, has called for an investigation into her dad's death. A lawyer for the late King says claims that he was murdered are false.
Relatives making “ridiculous” claims that B.B. King was murdered are probably upset they’re only getting four-figure payments under his will, the blues legend’s lawyer said Tuesday.
“My guess is the children and grandchildren don’t like the fact he’s leaving them $3,000 and $5,000 each and then leaving the rest to his lineage for education,” lawyer E. Brent Bryson told the Daily News. “B.B. did not have a very high formal education, and he wanted to have his lineage go to college, so he set up a trust that would pay for college and other expenses.”
Bryson declined to give a valuation for King’s estate. “There are millions, but not the 20 or 30 million that’s been reported,” he said.
Ethan Miller/Getty Images
Patty E. King, daughter of B.B. King, holds a flower as she leaves a funeral for the blues musician at Palm Downtown Mortuary & Cemetery on Saturday in in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Bryson spoke out after King’s daughters Karen Williams and Patty King signed affidavits Sunday accusing their late father’s two aides of poisoning him.
“There’s no basis in reality for these ridiculous allegations,” Bryson told The News. He said three independent, board-certified doctors examined King before he died in his Las Vegas home May 14. “They all stated he was receiving the utmost professional care at home, which is where Mr. King wanted to be. He didn’t want invasive treatment.”
King, 89, is survived by 11 children but gave his manager Laverne Toney power of attorney before he died and named her executor of his estate. Bryson said Toney “gets nothing under the will,” other than routine compensation as executor.
The lawyer for the two daughters who signed the affidavits said Tuesday that the effort to get a criminal investigation was not a money grab. “They love their dad, and they want answers,” lawyer Larissa Drohobyczer said.
Related Stories
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

