By James Geddes ,      Tech Times  |  May 26, 10:56 PM
Samsung has officially announced the release of the exclusive Iron Man edition of the Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge. The limited edition smartphone was developed in association with Marvel.
(Photo : Samsung | Tech Times)
Samsung has officially announced the release of the exclusive Iron Man edition of the Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge. The limited edition smartphone was developed in association with Marvel.
Last month, Samsung officially released its latest flagship smartphone duo, the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge. The design of the new flagships was a new direction for Samsung, which, for the first time, introduced smartphones built with premium metal and glass materials as opposed to the plastic build of its former flagship, the Galaxy S5. The Galaxy S6 Edge sports a unique dual-sided curved display, which wowed the tech world and won the device "best new handset" award at Mobile World Congress 2015.
One of Samsung's strong suits has always been its ability to develop numerous variants of its flagship smartphones to cater to specific niches. For example, there's the Active series for those who require a more rugged and durable device and the Mini series for those who prefer a smaller size and price.
While those variants feature actual changes in the build and specs of the smartphone, it appears the first official variant of either the Galaxy S6 or S6 Edge will feature superficial design elements only. The red and gold Iron Man edition, which Samsung previously teased, was just officially announced.
"We are excited to be able to offer our world-class Galaxy S6 Edge smartphone designed especially for Iron Man fans through our continued collaboration with Marvel," stated Younghee Lee, Executive Vice President of Global Marketing, IT & Mobile Division at Samsung Electronics. "The limited edition Iron Man Galaxy S6 Edge embodies the power of the iconic Avenger with a dual-curved edge design and advanced features that will provide Marvel fans with the ultimate entertainment experience."
 
Tech Times Subscribeclose
Enjoyed reading this story? For more awesome news, reviews, features and analyses, subscribe to Tech Times newsletter. We value your privacy and we will never sell or distribute your email or personal data to third party advertisers.
Related Articles
Don't Miss
Smartphone
Smartphone
Trending
Subscribe to Tech Times

