Alabama bill would create toughest abortion law in the country - WTVM.com-Columbus, GA News Weather & Sports
Posted:
Updated:
ALABAMA (WAFF) - Pro-choice and Pro-life supporters are on opposite sides again over a bill in the Alabama legislature that would ban abortions after a fetal heartbeat is heard.
The two sides do agree on one thing, though. If the legislation is passed, then it will be challenged and likely heard by the United States Supreme Court.
The abortion issue has been argued over and over again since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled on Rowe v. Wade in the 1970's. But legislation gaining momentum in Montgomery could be the biggest threat to limit what that Rowe v. Wade created. 
If passed, the "Fetal Heartbeat" legislation would be the toughest abortion legislation in the country.
"It eliminates their window of opportunity to obtain an abortion," said Alabama Reproductive Rights Advocates' Jayme Calhoun. 
Calhoun believes the legislation is unconstitutional. Alabama "Fetal Heartbeat" Bill is similar to other legislation recently passed by North Dakota. 
A federal judge went on to rule North Dakota's law unconstitutional.  
"Abortion is always going to be in the legislature in Alabama,” said Calhoun. “They have a primary purpose of doing away with abortion completely.” 
"It will go to the court system and it'll get contested and it'll go all the way to the United States Supreme Court," said WAFF 48 News
legal analyst Mark McDaniel. 
McDaniel has practiced law for several decades in North Alabama. He said the decision will be split, but he's not ruling out whether the
Supreme Court would rule it constitutional. 
"You've had a number of Supreme Court decisions that have carved away at [Rowe v. Wade],” said McDaniel. “I think the time is right to
challenge a case like this."  
Calhoun is confident the high court would rule for Pro-choice.
"Women have a constitutional right to seek abortion," said Calhoun.
The "Fetal Heartbeat" bill is sponsored by Rep. Terri Collins, Decatur Republican. WAFF 48 New reached out to Collins to see how her bill is different from North Dakota's law. 
Collins hasn't gotten back to us. She has been in legislative committee meetings all day in Montgomery. We'll let you know her answer when we hear from her.
Copyright 2015 WAFF . All rights reserved.
(Source: Jenyne Donaldson)
A makeshift stop sign is causing confusion and has residents questioning the city of Columbus. More >>
A makeshift stop sign is causing confusion and has residents questioning the city of Columbus. More >>
Wednesday, April 8 2015 8:34 PM EDT2015-04-09 00:34:07 GMT
Lurking in backyards and other environments for months, the Parvovirus has been killing dogs across Muscogee County. Animal experts say local puppy owners should be extra cautious of the sickness as cases are popping up lately. It attacks a dog's intestinal tract in the worst way, causing diarrhea, vomiting, and fever. More >>
Lurking in backyards and other environments for months, the Parvovirus has been killing dogs across Muscogee County. Animal experts say local puppy owners should be extra cautious of the sickness as cases are popping up lately. It attacks a dog's intestinal tract in the worst way, causing diarrhea, vomiting, and fever. More >>
Wednesday, April 8 2015 8:14 PM EDT2015-04-09 00:14:06 GMT
The Georgia Department of Natural Resources and the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) Auxiliary Flotilla 08-01 will conduct monthly personal watercraft and boating safety courses. These courses will provide information on legal requirements, navigation rules, preventing personal watercraft and boating accidents, and new boating laws. More >>
The Georgia Department of Natural Resources and the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) Auxiliary Flotilla 08-01 will conduct monthly personal watercraft and boating safety courses. These courses will provide information on legal requirements, navigation rules, preventing personal watercraft and boating accidents, and new boating laws. More >>
Wednesday, April 8 2015 7:24 PM EDT2015-04-08 23:24:07 GMT
St. Anne-Pacelli Catholic School is offering a variety of full- and half-day summer camps beginning in June. All camps are held at St. Anne-Pacelli Catholic School.  More >>
St. Anne-Pacelli Catholic School is offering a variety of full- and half-day summer camps beginning in June. All camps are held at St. Anne-Pacelli Catholic School.  More >>
Wednesday, April 8 2015 7:19 PM EDT2015-04-08 23:19:24 GMT
The latest officer-involved shooting has people all over the country talking; specifically, how cell phone video has impacted this case.  More >>
The latest officer-involved shooting has people all over the country talking; specifically, how cell phone video has impacted this case. 
WTVM - (334) 206-1400
WXTX - (704) 643-4148

