Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Dallas/Fort Worth airport reopens runway closed due to sinkhole
Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport has closed one of its four main runways Tuesday after a sinkhole was reported nearby.  The airport said via Twitter that it "DFW Airport has closed Runway 18L
Post to Facebook
Dallas/Fort Worth airport reopens runway closed due to sinkhole Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport has closed one of its four main runways Tuesday after a sinkhole was reported nearby.  The airport said via Twitter that it "DFW Airport has closed Runway 18L Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HudIOm
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Dallas/Fort Worth airport reopens runway closed due to sinkhole
Ben Mutzabaugh , USA TODAY 10:38 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
This file photo from October 2014 shows Terminal E at Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) International Airport.
(Photo: Stewart F. House, Getty Images)
Tags
Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport has reopened a runway that it closed earlier Tuesday due to reports of a sinkhole nearby. The closure appeared to cause some disruptions late Tuesday afternoon.
At about 7:30 p.m. ET, the airport s aid via Twitter that it "has reopened Runway 18L after completing an engineering analysis of the sinkhole that was reported this morning adjacent to that runway."
An airport spokesman says workers discovered that the 25-foot by 25-foot sinkhole was caused by a storm drain.
"Crews discovered that a section of a storm drain had become dislodged from the main storm drain line, creating erosion of the soil around the storm drain," The Dallas Morning News quotes airport spokesman David Magana as saying on Tuyesday evening. "The engineering analysis determined that the integrity of the runway itself is intact, and the runway was unaffected by the soil erosion. Tomorrow morning, construction crews will begin excavation and repairs to the storm drain, but will not require any further closures to the runway in order to complete the repairs."
The airport first tweeted on Tuesday morning that the sinkhole had been discovered.
"The sinkhole is not located on the runway or taxiway, but in (a) safety area" nearby, the airport said in one of its morning tweets . "The runway will remain closed until repairs are completed."
Flight-tracking service FlightAware reported 130 DFW flights -- or about 5% of the day's schedule -- had been canceled as of 10:30 p.m. ET. About 480 total flights had been delayed, representing more than 20% of the airport's flights, according to FlightAware . That figure has steadily increased throughout the day.
TOP VIDEOS
01:42
May 26, 2015
Ready for your dream vacation?
Save time. Get connected for FREE to travel specialists. The journey starts right here at tripology.com
To begin, I'm interested in:
(Check all that apply)

