By Ian Cummings , Herald-Tribune
/ Tuesday, April 7, 2015
Two bills moving through the Florida Legislature could begin to set limits on how police use body-worn video cameras.
But many of the rules will probably be developed in the future by local agencies such as the Sarasota Police Department, whose body camera program is on hold.
A Florida Senate committee approved a measure on Tuesday that would require local law enforcement agencies using body cameras to create detailed policies on how the cameras and data are managed.
That will apply to the Sarasota Police Department, which had its body camera program delayed while the city considers some new policies.
Training Unit Officer Jeff Dunn shows off the Taser AXON Flex body camera during a press conference at the Sarasota Police Department in February (H-T ARCHIVE / 2015 / NICK ADAMS)
Sarasota Police were set to begin using 24 new body cameras on patrol officers earlier this year, but stopped after a lawsuit by civil liberties activists.
The department has a body camera policy, but critics have said it is incomplete.
Both the American Civil Liberties Union of Florida and police union officials have complained that Sarasota police rushed the body cameras into use without preparing for new problems posed by the tech.
The Senate bill, SPB 7080, would require local agencies using the cameras to create their own policies covering training, privacy rules, and data storage.
The Senate Criminal Justice committee drafted the bill and passed it unanimously.
A similar House measure has already cleared two committee stops and remains to be heard by the House Judiciary committee.
Another bill would create exceptions for body cameras in Florida’s public records law to answer concerns about the privacy of the general public.
Police body cameras have grown increasingly popular in departments around the country over the past two years.
At least 13 Florida police departments are using the body-worn cameras, and nine have pilot programs to test them.
Nationally, policy makers and academics have not yet agreed on all of the recommended best practices for the new technology. Florida lawmakers were warned by their staff not to “drill down too deeply” into the details until more was known.
But members of the Senate committee could not resist debating some of the possible pitfalls, and were troubled at the prospect of leaving cities to their own devices on the new frontier of technology.
“I represent 20 different municipalities,” said Sen. Jeff Brandes, R-St. Petersburg.
“So that means that they each can have their own retention policy.”
Committee members also expressed alarm at the prospect of police officers recording everyone around them even while standing in line to purchase a cup of coffee.
Some of those questions may be answered by another bill, SB 248, which is sponsored by Florida Sen. Christopher Smith, D-Fort Lauderdale.
Smith’s bill would create exceptions in records law for video or audio recorded by police body cameras inside a private home, a hospital or on the scene of a medical emergency.
That bill has cleared Senate committees but lacks a House counterpart.
The Sarasota lawsuit over the cost of obtaining video from the body cameras through a public records request has largely been settled.
Last modified: April 7, 2015
All rights reserved.  This copyrighted material may not be published without permissions.  Links are encouraged.
SIMILAR STORIES
Congressional travel

