By JENNIFER SINCO KELLEHER -      Associated Press -                                    Tuesday, May 26, 2015
HONOLULU (AP) - A project to build a giant telescope near the summit of Mauna Kea has the right to move forward, but Hawaii has failed the mountain in many ways, Gov. David Ige said Tuesday.
Amid protests and arrests of opponents blocking construction workers from accessing the site, construction has been halted since last month on the $1.4 billion Thirty Meter Telescope. Ige said it’s up to the telescope company to determine when construction will resume. “And we will support and enforce their right to do so,” he said.
Telescope officials didn’t immediately comment.
Ige also vowed that there will be major changes in stewardship of Mauna Kea, held sacred by Native Hawaiians. The University of Hawaii, which leases the land, must do a better job in its stewardship, he said, listing 10 actions he’s asking the university to take.
They include beginning to decommission as many as possible the telescopes already on the mountain, with at least 25 percent of the 13 telescopes gone by the time Thirty Meter Telescope is ready for operation; legally commit that this is the last area on the mountain were a telescope will be considered; restart the environmental review process for the university’s lease extension and significantly limit non-cultural access to the mountain.
University spokesman Dan Meisenzahl said the institution has just learned of the governor’s requests and will work toward making them happen.
Ige also announced creating a Mauna Kea cultural council that will work with the state Department of Land and Natural Resources. He also wants telescope leaders to increase support for Native Hawaiian students studying science and technology.
Kealoha Pisciotta, a longtime Big Island critic of the Thirty Meter Telescope, said she’s disappointed in Ige’s comments, which she said lacked substance. “It created this illusion that we’re going to do something without really doing much,” she said, adding that his words will not prompt protesters to leave the mountain.
___
Follow Jennifer Sinco Kelleher at http://www.twitter.com/JenHapa .
Shares
Shares
Question of the Day

