Search
Photo
Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin attacked President Obama's foreign policy during an N.R.A. event on Friday. 
Credit Harrison Mcclary/Reuters
Nearly every potential Republican presidential contender will be speaking today on a single issue: gun rights.
As First Draft considered how best to parse their speeches at the National Rifle Association’s Leadership Forum in Nashville, we hit on a bullet-point approach. And yes, that sent us down a gun-pun rabbit hole. (Or was it into a foxhole?) Up next, Gov.Scott Walker of Wisconsin.
NRA Rating: A+
Guns owned: Two
Bull’s-Eye: Mr. Walker’s lines about protecting gun rights were greeted with amicable applause, but his lines on foreign policy landed best. “I want a commander in chief who will look the American people in the eye and will say that radical, Islamic terrorism is a threat, and we’re going to do something about it,” he said to a standing ovation.
Misfire: Regarding his A+ rating from the N.R.A., Mr. Walker tried a literary allusion: “Some on the left might call it a scarlet letter, but I consider it a badge of honor.” He spoke too quickly for the line to catch, with a few confused claps petering quickly.
“Cold Dead Hands” Moment: Mr. Walker is a well-known hunter, but told the crowd that his relationship with firearms goes “much deeper than that,” touting his signing of a so-called castle doctrine law.
Other Ammo: After spending about three minutes on gun legislation, Mr. Walker dipped into his stump speech, criticizing President Obama for believing  “that you grow the economy by growing Washington.” Mr. Walker spoke at length about foreign policy, getting loud applause when he called for a commander-in-chief “who will once and for all, say that Israel is an ally, and start acting like it.”
Cross Hairs: Almost exclusively, Mr. Walker focused his attacks on Mr. Obama.
Pump Action: He had the crowd whooping at the mention of his name before he even took the stage. Shouts of “Go Scott!” took over when the applause died down. He took a moment to find his groove, however, occasionally talking over applause lines, perhaps because he, like many of the Republican potential candidates, have rarely spoken before audiences as large as the 5,000 people in attendance at the leadership conference. But once he hit his stride, the whoops and whistles followed.
About First Draft
First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com .
Politics Newsletter
We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.

