» Viewfinder — World-Herald photos and video
» The Hall — Local government news
Get the latest parenting news and family happenings by signing up for momaha's weekly newsletter
Money
Hyundai is the first automaker to launch the Android Auto system.
Posted: Wednesday, May 27, 2015 1:00 am
Business digest, May 27: GM to spend $1.2 billion upgrading Indiana plant From wire reports The Omaha World-Herald
General Motors says it will spend $1.2 billion on new facilities and technology at the Indiana factory where it builds Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickup trucks. The project announced Tuesday by company officials includes new painting facilities, an expanded body shop and improvements to the truck assembly area at the factory near Fort Wayne that has about 3,800 workers. GM says work on the project is expected to begin in June and will take several years to complete.
Amazon is hiring 6,000 for distribution centers
Amazon is hiring 6,000 full-time workers to staff up across its more than 50 distribution centers in the U.S. The workers will pick, pack and ship products to fulfill customer orders. Currently Amazon has about 50,000 full-time workers at the centers. Amazon has been opening distribution centers across the country in order to speed up delivery times. Its $99 annual Prime membership service comes with free two-day delivery on many items.
Hyundai first to offer Android Auto system
Hyundai is the first carmaker to offer Google’s Android Auto system. Android smartphone users with a 2015 Sonata can ask dealers to download the system for free. Drivers must have a Sonata with navigation, which is part of an optional technology package. Android Auto will soon be available on other Hyundai models. Android Auto connects to drivers’ smartphones and lets them access certain apps, like Google Maps or Spotify, by voice, steering wheel controls or touchscreen graphics on the dashboard.
Deutsche Bank to pay $55 million settlement
Germany’s Deutsche Bank AG has agreed to pay $55 million to settle civil charges of filing incorrect reports during the financial crisis that downplayed risks of huge losses. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced the settlement Tuesday with the big German bank, which is a prominent institution on Wall Street. Deutsche Bank neither admitted nor denied the allegations but did agree to refrain from future violations of the securities laws.
Copyright ©2015 Omaha World-Herald. All rights reserved.   This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, displayed or redistributed for any purpose without permission from the Omaha World-Herald.   To purchase rights to republish this article, please contact The World-Herald Store.
Posted in Money on Wednesday, May 27, 2015 1:00 am.
Similar Stories
Most Read
In case you missed it
World-Herald Alerts
Sign up to get breaking news and daily headlines from the Omaha World-Herald delivered to your email inbox.
Can't find what you need? Click here for site map »
Screen Name or Email
Login

