Agence France-Presse, 27 May 2015
Nasa said Tuesday it has chosen a trove of instruments to send to Jupiter's ice-covered moon Europa, as it press forward with its search for evidence the orb could support life.
The nine gadgets from cameras to radars to magnetic field gauges will be used to try to determine if Europa has an ocean beneath its glacial surface, as scientists have long suspected.
Europa, which is about the size of Earth's moon, could have twice the amount of water as our own planet, Nasa said.
Scientists are keen to find out for sure, and the nine devices will be sent to Europa sometime in the 2020s.
"We're excited about the potential of this new mission and these instruments to unravel the mysteries of Europa in our quest to find evidence of life beyond Earth," said John Grunsfeld, associate administrator for Nasa's Science Mission Directorate.
The instruments will be looking for a few key indicators to suggest Europa can in fact support life: salt water, a rocky sea floor, and energy and chemistry created by tidal heating.
"Europa could be the best place in the solar system to look for present day life beyond our home planet," Nasa said.
The mission to Europa could come with a $30 million price tag, which the space agency has already requested in its 2016 budget.
The fact-finding trip would entail sending a spacecraft to Jupiter's moon, which would orbit Europa, getting as close as 16 miles from its icy surface at times.
Among the instruments in the celestial treasure chest are cameras and spectrometers to photograph the moon.
Another device, the appropriately named magnetometer, will measure the strength and direction of Europa's magnetic field, while penetrating radars will search for subsurface lakes, much like the ones beneath Antarctica on Earth.
Other instruments will search for recent eruptions of warm water and tiny particles.
The mission will also be on the look-out for water plumes from a subsurface ocean, which will help scientists study Europa's chemical makeup key to unlocking whether its environment could support life.
Nasa scientist Curt Niebur said choosing the devices to send to Europa was a key step in the search for life on one of Jupiter's largest moons.
"This is a giant step in our search for oases that could support life in our own celestial backyard," said Niebur, Europa program scientist
"We're confident that this versatile set of science instruments will produce exciting discoveries on a much-anticipated mission."
The nine instruments were selected out of 33 proposed devices from Nasa researchers last year.
Jupiter is a gas giant, composed mainly of hydrogen and helium, and is the largest planet in the solar system.
Its four biggest moons, Ganymede, Io, Europa and Callisto, can be seen with binoculars on a clear night.
In the Stores
Popular Right Now


Researchers from the Planetary Science Institute will be studying Jupiter's moon Europa, NASA has announced.
By: ANI |        Washington |  May 27, 2015 11:12 am
Other Articles
Researchers from the Planetary Science Institute will be studying Jupiter’s moon Europa, NASA has announced.
During a press conference, NASA officials stated that the Europa mission, slated to launch in the 2020s, will orbit Jupiter while performing 45 Europa flybys over a three-year period with altitudes ranging from 25 kilometers to 2,700 kilometers.
PSI Senior Scientist Roger Clark is a Co-Investigator on the Mapping Image Spectrometer for Europa (MISE), which will probe the composition of Europa, identifying and mapping the distribution of organics, salts, acid hydrates, water ice phases and other materials to determine the habitability of Europa’s ocean.
Clark said that MISE would help in understanding what the composition of the ocean might be.
PSI Senior Scientists Amy Barr Mlinar and Candice Hansen are Co-Investigators on the Europa Imaging System (EIS) instrument, which features wide and narrow angle cameras that will map 90 percent of Europa’s surface at 50 meter resolution.
Hansen said that had only seen a small fraction of Europa’s fascinating surface at high resolution, and were looking forward to being surprised.
Galileo imaged about 10 percent of Europa’s surface with a best resolution of about 200 meters.
REASON is designed to characterize the distribution of any shallow subsurface water, search for an ice-ocean interface and characterize the ice shell’s global thermophysical structure, investigate processes governing material exchange among the ocean, ice shell, surface, and atmosphere — including plume activity — and constrain the amplitude and phase of gravitational tides, Mlinar said. It will also characterize the safety and scientific value of candidate landing sites for a possible future lander mission.
NASA selected nine of 33 instrument proposals submitted for the mission.
For Updates follow us on  Facebook  and  Twitter
First Published on May 27, 2015 11:12 am
More from
In the news
Editor’s Pick
Today ( 27 May )This Week ( 24 May - 30 May )
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infrastructure company PNC Infratech received a subdued response on its secondary market debut on Tuesday with its shares failing to sustain intra-day gains...
United Spirits had registered a net loss of Rs 5,380.10 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal.
2015-05-27 07:57:51
Twitter launched its Periscope application on Android-powered devices as the battle for live-streaming video spread to the world's leading smartphone platform.
2015-05-27 09:35:10
With India becoming one of the largest, and certainly the fastest-growing, smartphone market in the world, OTT players have started making a beeline for it.

