Agence France-Presse, 27 May 2015
Nasa said Tuesday it has chosen a trove of instruments to send to Jupiter's ice-covered moon Europa, as it press forward with its search for evidence the orb could support life.
The nine gadgets from cameras to radars to magnetic field gauges will be used to try to determine if Europa has an ocean beneath its glacial surface, as scientists have long suspected.
Europa, which is about the size of Earth's moon, could have twice the amount of water as our own planet, Nasa said.
Scientists are keen to find out for sure, and the nine devices will be sent to Europa sometime in the 2020s.
"We're excited about the potential of this new mission and these instruments to unravel the mysteries of Europa in our quest to find evidence of life beyond Earth," said John Grunsfeld, associate administrator for Nasa's Science Mission Directorate.
The instruments will be looking for a few key indicators to suggest Europa can in fact support life: salt water, a rocky sea floor, and energy and chemistry created by tidal heating.
"Europa could be the best place in the solar system to look for present day life beyond our home planet," Nasa said.
The mission to Europa could come with a $30 million price tag, which the space agency has already requested in its 2016 budget.
The fact-finding trip would entail sending a spacecraft to Jupiter's moon, which would orbit Europa, getting as close as 16 miles from its icy surface at times.
Among the instruments in the celestial treasure chest are cameras and spectrometers to photograph the moon.
Another device, the appropriately named magnetometer, will measure the strength and direction of Europa's magnetic field, while penetrating radars will search for subsurface lakes, much like the ones beneath Antarctica on Earth.
Other instruments will search for recent eruptions of warm water and tiny particles.
The mission will also be on the look-out for water plumes from a subsurface ocean, which will help scientists study Europa's chemical makeup key to unlocking whether its environment could support life.
Nasa scientist Curt Niebur said choosing the devices to send to Europa was a key step in the search for life on one of Jupiter's largest moons.
"This is a giant step in our search for oases that could support life in our own celestial backyard," said Niebur, Europa program scientist
"We're confident that this versatile set of science instruments will produce exciting discoveries on a much-anticipated mission."
The nine instruments were selected out of 33 proposed devices from Nasa researchers last year.
Jupiter is a gas giant, composed mainly of hydrogen and helium, and is the largest planet in the solar system.
Its four biggest moons, Ganymede, Io, Europa and Callisto, can be seen with binoculars on a clear night.
In the Stores
Popular Right Now


Select Portfolio and Asset Combination for Display on Market Band
Select Portfolio
ET NOW RADIO
FREE ET MARKETS APP
The US space agency has selected nine science instruments for a mission to Jupiter's moon Europa. (In pic: Jupiter)
ET SPECIAL: Love visual aspect of news? Enjoy this exclusive slideshows treat!
WASHINGTON: The US space agency has selected nine science instruments for a mission to Jupiter's moon Europa. The aim is to investigate whether the mysterious icy moon could harbour conditions suitable for life.
Europa has tantalised scientists with its enigmatic icy surface and evidence of a vast ocean.
"We have gathered amazing data from 11 flybys of the Galileo spacecraft over a decade ago and recent Hubble observations, suggesting plumes of water shooting out from the moon," said John Grunsfeld , associate administrator for NASA's science mission directorate in Washington, DC.
The Europa mission would send a solar-powered spacecraft into a long, looping orbit around the gas giant Jupiter to perform repeated close flybys of Europa over a three-year period.
In total, the mission would perform 45 flybys at altitudes ranging from 25 km to 2,700 km.
"The payload of selected science instruments includes cameras and spectrometers to produce high-resolution images of Europa's surface and determine its composition," NASA said in a statement.
An ice penetrating radar will determine the thickness of the moon's icy shell and search for subsurface lakes similar to those beneath Antarctica.
The mission also will carry a magnetometer to measure strength and direction of the moon's magnetic field, which will allow scientists to determine the depth and salinity of its ocean.
A thermal instrument will scour Europa's frozen surface in search of recent eruptions of warmer water, while additional instruments will search for evidence of water and tiny particles in the moon's thin atmosphere.
The earlier NASA's Galileo mission has yielded strong evidence that Europa, about the size of Earth's moon, has an ocean beneath a frozen crust of unknown thickness.
If proven to exist, this global ocean could have more than twice as much water as Earth.
With abundant salt water, a rocky sea floor, and the energy and chemistry provided by tidal heating, Europa could be the best place in the solar system to look for present day life beyond our home planet.
Stay on top of business news with The Economic Times App. Download it Now!
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Browse Companies
Browse Mutual Funds
BACK TO TOP
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Others

