5mMark Saxon
Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later tonight or Wednesday morning.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images
8h
Cincinnati Reds starter Johnny Cueto will miss at least one more start after an MRI found inflammation in his pitching elbow.
Play0:59
2h
ST. LOUIS --  The Cardinals anticipate first baseman Matt Adams will be placed on the 15-day disabled list after straining his right quadriceps while running out a double in the fifth inning.
Tom Szczerbowski/Getty Images
7h
Blue Jays slugger Jose Bautista is back in the starting lineup for Tuesday's game against the White Sox and says his sore right shoulder is pain free after a cortisone shot.
AP Photo/John Bazemore
7h
A week after firing Mike Redmond and replacing him with Dan Jennings, the Marlins reassigned third base coach Brett Butler on Tuesday and replaced him with assistant hitting coach Lenny Harris.
Play3:26
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans like Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
Play0:58
2h
Kris Bryant and Bryce Harper traded solo blasts, but Addison Russell's double in the bottom of the ninth won the game for the Cubs.
3 Related
Bryce Harper's fast start to the season has shown what he truly could be capable of doing over the long haul.
AP Photo/Kathy Willens
3hAndrew Marchand
Five signs of hope for the New York Yankees as they pass the Memorial Day mark in contention in the American League East.
Play0:21
2hDavid Schoenfield
The first returns are in on the All-Star voting and the Kansas City Royals have leaders at five positions.
Play3:15
10hStephania Bell
Stephania Bell checks in with her insight on the injuries to David Wright and Victor Martinez -- including when each of them may return to action.
Play3:40
11h
A little pine tar here. Some rosin and sunscreen there. Baseball Tonight's Dallas Braden and Alex Cora explain how to cheat in baseball.
2 Related
16hDavid Schoenfield
Jeremy Guthrie of the Kansas City Royals put up this pitching line on Monday against the Yankees: 1 IP, 9 H, 11 R, 11 ER, 3 BB, 1 SO, 4 HR.
Play1:06
5d
Jim Bowden lays out the 20 players most likely to be traded by July 31, rating each one on their chances of being dealt and looking at where they might end up.
1 Related
Juan Uribe bids adieu to Dodgers with trade to Braves apparent
LOS ANGELES --  Los Angeles Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later that night or Wednesday morning.
According to reports, the Dodgers will receive Alberto Callaspo , left-handed pitchers Eric Stults and Ian Thomas and right-handed pitcher Juan Jaime in exchange for Uribe and right-hander Chris Withrow , who is recovering from Tommy John and back surgeries and is not expected to pitch in 2015.
Juan Uribe, when asked Tuesday night what he would miss about playing for the Dodgers, got choked up, pointed toward the team's clubhouse, excused himself and walked away. 
Dilip Vishwanat/Getty Images
Uribe, when he was asked what he would miss about playing for the Dodgers, got choked up, pointed toward the team's clubhouse, where his teammates were getting dressed after an 8-0 win over the Braves, excused himself and walked away.
Uribe was not in the Dodgers' dugout after the playing of the national anthem. The Dodgers did not confirm the trade after the game.
A deal that would have sent Uribe to the Braves for Callaspo had been blocked by Callaspo earlier in the day. 
But the Braves announced about 15 minutes before the first pitch that Pedro Ciriaco was replacing Callaspo at third base and batting in the seventh spot.
According to MLB.com, Callaspo told the Braves he was willing to accept the trade, which was awaiting the approval of commissioner Rob Manfred.
Under the collective bargaining agreement, Callaspo had the right to refuse a trade until June 15 because he signed with the Braves as a free agent last offseason. Callaspo had previously told reporters he rejected the trade because he liked his teammates and wanted to finish the season in Atlanta. 
The Dodgers viewed Alberto Callaspo as a better option off the bench because he rarely strikes out and has been adept at times in his career at getting on base. 
AP Photo/John Minchillo
Uribe, 36, was a key piece of the Dodgers' NL West-leading 2014 team, batting .311 with nine home runs and playing stellar defense at third base.
But the hot hitting of Justin Turner and Alex Guerrero allowed them to push ahead of Uribe on the Dodgers' depth chart at third base. In addition, Cuban defector Hector Olivera is working out at the team's facility in Arizona and could join the mix at the position as soon as a month from now. 
"He never fell from grace. Juan has never done anything wrong," Dodgers manager Don Mattingly said. "In professional sports, the guy that performs is the one who plays for the most part."
The Dodgers viewed Callaspo as a better option off the bench because he rarely strikes out and has been adept at times in his career at getting on base.
Uribe is making $6.5 million this season. Callaspo is making $3 million.
The proposed trade started brewing before Monday night's 6-3 Dodgers win against the Braves at Dodger Stadium. Atlanta manager Fredi Gonzalez said after the game that Callaspo had been scratched 20 minutes before first pitch because of a potential deal.
"We didn't want him to get hurt," Gonzalez said. "So, that was the reason he got taken out of the lineup."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
0 Shares


 
Wed, 27 May 2015  1:03 AM ET
Dodgers pitcher Clayton Kershaw tossed seven scoreless innings Tuesday to earn his third win of the season during an 8-0 win over the Braves.
Kershaw (3-3) struck out 10 batters and walked none. It was his third time reaching double digit strike outs in a game as well not surrendering a walk this season. He has struck out 27 combined batters in his last three starts. His ERA now stands at 3.86.
His next expected start is scheduled for Monday at Colorado.
May 16, 2015 2:50 AM
MORE
COMMENTS
by Sean d'Oliveira | CBSSports.com
(1:57 am ET) If Mets third baseman David Wright misses 60 games this season, the team would recoup 75 percent of his contract while he is unable to play, sources told FoxSports.
Wright is on the disabled list with a back issue. He has only appeared in eight games this season and he has not played since April 14.
Albert Pujols gets two hits in Angels' loss
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:54 am ET) The Angels only managed five hits against San Diego in a shutout loss, and first baseman Albert Pujols had two of them. 
Pujols went 2 for 4, lifting his average to .235
Matt Kemp's bases-loaded double gives Padres win
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:51 am ET) Padres right fielder Matt Kemp hit a bases-clearing, two-out double in the tenth inning to help beat the Angels on Tuesday. 
Kemp went 2 for 5 and broke a scoreless tie with his bases loaded hit. His three RBI gave him 25 on the year. He also scored a run. The double was his tenth this season and the only extra base hit for either team in the game.
Angels' Joe Smith gives up four 10th inning runs to lose
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:49 am ET) Angels reliever Joe Smith gave up four runs in 2/3 of an inning to lose to San Diego on Tuesday.
Smith started the tenth and loaded the bases on a single and two walks. He gave up a two-out, bases clearing double, then left the game. The runner he left on base eventually came around to score. 
Smith had gone nine straight appearances without allowing a run before Tuesday. 
Padres' Dale Thayer earns win in relief
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:46 am ET) Padres reliever Dale Thayer earned his first win of the season, Tuesday, over the Angels. 
Thayer came on with one out in the ninth inning and retired the only two batters he faced, to send the game to extra innings. The Padres scored four in the tenth to give him a 1-0 record on the year.
Thayer lowered his ERA to 3.00. 
Report: Braves send Eric Stults, Ian Thomas, Juan Jaime to Dodgers
by Sean d'Oliveira | CBSSports.com
(1:45 am ET) As part of the trade sending Braves infielder Alberto Callaspo to the Dodgers in exchange for Juan Uribe, the Braves will also send Eric Stults , Ian Thomas and Juan Jaime to the Dodgers, reports the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
The Braves are reportedly expected to receive pitcher Chris Withrow in the deal as well, reports FoxSports.
Angels' Matt Shoemaker has seven scoreless in no-decision
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:43 am ET) Angels starter Matt Shoemaker picked up a hard-luck no-decision after pitching seven scoreless innings against San Diego. 
Shoemaker allowed four hits and walked one, while striking out six. He cut his ERA to 5.44.
The next start for Shoemaker is Sunday, against Detroit. 
Padres' Odrisamer Despaigne has six shutout innings in no-decision
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:41 am ET) Padres starter Odrisamer Despaigne had six shutout innings against the Angels on Tuesday, but he left with a no-decision. 
Despaigne struck out five, allowed five hits and didn't walk a batter. He lowered his ERA to 5.23 with the performance.
The next start for Despaigne is Sunday, against Pittsburgh. 
Athletics' Ben Zobrist gets two hits in first game back
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(1:37 am ET) Athletics second baseman Ben Zobrist returned to the lineup for the first time in more than a month and didn't look rusty.
Zobrist played for the first time since April 24, when he went to the disabled list with a knee injury.
Zobrist went 2 for 4 in the A's shutout loss to Detroit on Tuesday. He hit his sixth double of the year, one of only two extra base hits in the game for either team.   
Tigers will start Kyle Ryan in place of Alfredo Simon on Wednesday
by Sean d'Oliveira | CBSSports.com
(1:35 am ET) With Tigers pitcher Alfredo Simon on the bereavement list to deal with his ailing father, manager Brad Ausmus said the team will turn to Kyle Ryan to start Wednesday's game at Oakland, reports the Detroit Free Press. Ryan must still travel to Oakland in order to play in the game.
Ryan went 2-0 with a 2.61 ERA over six games last season for the Tigers.
 

