5mMark Saxon
Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later tonight or Wednesday morning.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images
8h
Cincinnati Reds starter Johnny Cueto will miss at least one more start after an MRI found inflammation in his pitching elbow.
Play0:59
2h
ST. LOUIS --  The Cardinals anticipate first baseman Matt Adams will be placed on the 15-day disabled list after straining his right quadriceps while running out a double in the fifth inning.
Tom Szczerbowski/Getty Images
7h
Blue Jays slugger Jose Bautista is back in the starting lineup for Tuesday's game against the White Sox and says his sore right shoulder is pain free after a cortisone shot.
AP Photo/John Bazemore
7h
A week after firing Mike Redmond and replacing him with Dan Jennings, the Marlins reassigned third base coach Brett Butler on Tuesday and replaced him with assistant hitting coach Lenny Harris.
Play3:26
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans like Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
Play0:58
2h
Kris Bryant and Bryce Harper traded solo blasts, but Addison Russell's double in the bottom of the ninth won the game for the Cubs.
3 Related
Bryce Harper's fast start to the season has shown what he truly could be capable of doing over the long haul.
AP Photo/Kathy Willens
3hAndrew Marchand
Five signs of hope for the New York Yankees as they pass the Memorial Day mark in contention in the American League East.
Play0:21
2hDavid Schoenfield
The first returns are in on the All-Star voting and the Kansas City Royals have leaders at five positions.
Play3:15
10hStephania Bell
Stephania Bell checks in with her insight on the injuries to David Wright and Victor Martinez -- including when each of them may return to action.
Play3:40
11h
A little pine tar here. Some rosin and sunscreen there. Baseball Tonight's Dallas Braden and Alex Cora explain how to cheat in baseball.
2 Related
16hDavid Schoenfield
Jeremy Guthrie of the Kansas City Royals put up this pitching line on Monday against the Yankees: 1 IP, 9 H, 11 R, 11 ER, 3 BB, 1 SO, 4 HR.
Play1:06
5d
Jim Bowden lays out the 20 players most likely to be traded by July 31, rating each one on their chances of being dealt and looking at where they might end up.
1 Related
Juan Uribe bids adieu to Dodgers with trade to Braves apparent
LOS ANGELES --  Los Angeles Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later that night or Wednesday morning.
According to reports, the Dodgers will receive Alberto Callaspo , left-handed pitchers Eric Stults and Ian Thomas and right-handed pitcher Juan Jaime in exchange for Uribe and right-hander Chris Withrow , who is recovering from Tommy John and back surgeries and is not expected to pitch in 2015.
Juan Uribe, when asked Tuesday night what he would miss about playing for the Dodgers, got choked up, pointed toward the team's clubhouse, excused himself and walked away. 
Dilip Vishwanat/Getty Images
Uribe, when he was asked what he would miss about playing for the Dodgers, got choked up, pointed toward the team's clubhouse, where his teammates were getting dressed after an 8-0 win over the Braves, excused himself and walked away.
Uribe was not in the Dodgers' dugout after the playing of the national anthem. The Dodgers did not confirm the trade after the game.
A deal that would have sent Uribe to the Braves for Callaspo had been blocked by Callaspo earlier in the day. 
But the Braves announced about 15 minutes before the first pitch that Pedro Ciriaco was replacing Callaspo at third base and batting in the seventh spot.
According to MLB.com, Callaspo told the Braves he was willing to accept the trade, which was awaiting the approval of commissioner Rob Manfred.
Under the collective bargaining agreement, Callaspo had the right to refuse a trade until June 15 because he signed with the Braves as a free agent last offseason. Callaspo had previously told reporters he rejected the trade because he liked his teammates and wanted to finish the season in Atlanta. 
The Dodgers viewed Alberto Callaspo as a better option off the bench because he rarely strikes out and has been adept at times in his career at getting on base. 
AP Photo/John Minchillo
Uribe, 36, was a key piece of the Dodgers' NL West-leading 2014 team, batting .311 with nine home runs and playing stellar defense at third base.
But the hot hitting of Justin Turner and Alex Guerrero allowed them to push ahead of Uribe on the Dodgers' depth chart at third base. In addition, Cuban defector Hector Olivera is working out at the team's facility in Arizona and could join the mix at the position as soon as a month from now. 
"He never fell from grace. Juan has never done anything wrong," Dodgers manager Don Mattingly said. "In professional sports, the guy that performs is the one who plays for the most part."
The Dodgers viewed Callaspo as a better option off the bench because he rarely strikes out and has been adept at times in his career at getting on base.
Uribe is making $6.5 million this season. Callaspo is making $3 million.
The proposed trade started brewing before Monday night's 6-3 Dodgers win against the Braves at Dodger Stadium. Atlanta manager Fredi Gonzalez said after the game that Callaspo had been scratched 20 minutes before first pitch because of a potential deal.
"We didn't want him to get hurt," Gonzalez said. "So, that was the reason he got taken out of the lineup."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
0 Shares


Sections
Email
Print
Kershaw's RBI single 0:52
5/26/15: Clayton Kershaw lines an RBI single to right-center, driving in the Dodgers' sixth run of the inning
By Mark Bowman and Steve Bourbon / MLB.com |
+
0 COMMENTS
LOS ANGELES -- The Dodgers used a six-run fourth inning and a 10-strikeout gem from Clayton Kershaw to cruise to an 8-0 win over the Braves on Tuesday night at Dodger Stadium.
Kershaw didn't allow a baserunner until the fifth inning in what was his most impressive start of the season. The lefty scattered four hits over seven innings and added an RBI single in the fourth, the Dodgers' highest-scoring inning this season.
Braves starter Julio Teheran took a shutout into the fourth but was chased from the game after a two-run home run from Adrian Gonzalez with one out in the fifth inning. Teheran was charged with a career-high eight runs on 10 hits.
Dodgers' six-run 4th inning
ATL@LAD: Dodgers plate six runs in the 4th inning
5/26/15: The Dodgers put together a big rally, piling up six runs using three doubles and three singles in the 4th inning vs. the Braves
MOMENTS THAT MATTERED
Strategy backfires: With first base open in the fourth, the Braves elected to intentionally walk Gonzalez to get to Justin Turner . The third baseman responded with a looping RBI single to right field during the Dodgers' breakout inning.
Turner's RBI single
ATL@LAD: Turner lines an RBI single to right
5/26/15: Justin Turner ropes an RBI single to right, scoring Howie Kendrick to increase the Dodgers' lead to 2-0
Teheran resumes struggles: After facing the minimum through the first three innings, Teheran allowed the Dodgers to produce seven straight baserunners with one out in the fourth. Howie Kendrick , Andre Ethier and A.J. Ellis all recorded doubles as Teheran was reintroduced to the struggles he has experienced while producing a 4.91 ERA through this season's first 10 starts.
Ellis' RBI double
ATL@LAD: Ellis plates Ethier with RBI double
5/26/15: A.J. Ellis lines an RBI double to left, allowing Andre Ethier to score in the 4th inning
Gonzalez reaches a milestone: Already holding a 6-0 lead in the fifth, Gonzalez added a little more insurance with a two-run homer to chase Teheran from the game. The RBIs were the 1,000 and 1,001st of his career -- making him just the 12th active player to eclipse 1,000.
A-Gon homers, gets 1,000th RBI
ATL@LAD: A-Gon launches homer, records 1,000th RBI
5/26/15: Adrian Gonzalez drills a two-run home run to left, recording the 1,000th RBI of his Major League career
Tough night for Freeman: While the entire Braves lineup struggled to hit, first baseman Freddie Freeman had a particularly rough day at the plate. The lefty struck out in all four of his plate appearances.
SOUND SMART WITH YOUR FRIENDS
This marked the seventh time in 77 career starts that Teheran surrendered at least 10 hits. Unfortunately for the Braves, the young hurler has now done so in three of his past six starts. Teheran ended the first inning with his only strikeout of the night. He had fewer than two strikeouts in just two of the previous 72 starts he had made dating back to the start of 2013.
Teheran picks off Guerrero
ATL@LAD: Teheran makes a quick throw to nab Guerrero
5/26/15: Julio Teheran fires to second and Andrelton Simmons applies the tag on Alex Guerrero for the out
WHAT'S NEXT
Braves:: Alex Wood will take the mound when the Braves and Dodgers conclude this three-game series on Wednesday night. Wood missed his last scheduled start because he was battling a stomach virus that bothered him until he awoke on Monday.
Home: The Dodgers will close out the three-game series with Zack Greinke on the mound. Greinke has recorded a quality start in all nine of his appearances this season.
Mark Bowman is a reporter for MLB.com. Steve Bourbon is an associate reporter for MLB.com. This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

