5mMark Saxon
Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later tonight or Wednesday morning.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images
8h
Cincinnati Reds starter Johnny Cueto will miss at least one more start after an MRI found inflammation in his pitching elbow.
Play0:59
2h
ST. LOUIS --  The Cardinals anticipate first baseman Matt Adams will be placed on the 15-day disabled list after straining his right quadriceps while running out a double in the fifth inning.
Tom Szczerbowski/Getty Images
7h
Blue Jays slugger Jose Bautista is back in the starting lineup for Tuesday's game against the White Sox and says his sore right shoulder is pain free after a cortisone shot.
AP Photo/John Bazemore
7h
A week after firing Mike Redmond and replacing him with Dan Jennings, the Marlins reassigned third base coach Brett Butler on Tuesday and replaced him with assistant hitting coach Lenny Harris.
Play3:26
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans like Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
Play0:58
2h
Kris Bryant and Bryce Harper traded solo blasts, but Addison Russell's double in the bottom of the ninth won the game for the Cubs.
3 Related
Bryce Harper's fast start to the season has shown what he truly could be capable of doing over the long haul.
AP Photo/Kathy Willens
3hAndrew Marchand
Five signs of hope for the New York Yankees as they pass the Memorial Day mark in contention in the American League East.
Play0:21
2hDavid Schoenfield
The first returns are in on the All-Star voting and the Kansas City Royals have leaders at five positions.
Play3:15
10hStephania Bell
Stephania Bell checks in with her insight on the injuries to David Wright and Victor Martinez -- including when each of them may return to action.
Play3:40
11h
A little pine tar here. Some rosin and sunscreen there. Baseball Tonight's Dallas Braden and Alex Cora explain how to cheat in baseball.
2 Related
16hDavid Schoenfield
Jeremy Guthrie of the Kansas City Royals put up this pitching line on Monday against the Yankees: 1 IP, 9 H, 11 R, 11 ER, 3 BB, 1 SO, 4 HR.
Play1:06
5d
Jim Bowden lays out the 20 players most likely to be traded by July 31, rating each one on their chances of being dealt and looking at where they might end up.
1 Related
Juan Uribe bids adieu to Dodgers with trade to Braves apparent
LOS ANGELES --  Los Angeles Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later that night or Wednesday morning.
According to reports, the Dodgers will receive Alberto Callaspo , left-handed pitchers Eric Stults and Ian Thomas and right-handed pitcher Juan Jaime in exchange for Uribe and right-hander Chris Withrow , who is recovering from Tommy John and back surgeries and is not expected to pitch in 2015.
Juan Uribe, when asked Tuesday night what he would miss about playing for the Dodgers, got choked up, pointed toward the team's clubhouse, excused himself and walked away. 
Dilip Vishwanat/Getty Images
Uribe, when he was asked what he would miss about playing for the Dodgers, got choked up, pointed toward the team's clubhouse, where his teammates were getting dressed after an 8-0 win over the Braves, excused himself and walked away.
Uribe was not in the Dodgers' dugout after the playing of the national anthem. The Dodgers did not confirm the trade after the game.
A deal that would have sent Uribe to the Braves for Callaspo had been blocked by Callaspo earlier in the day. 
But the Braves announced about 15 minutes before the first pitch that Pedro Ciriaco was replacing Callaspo at third base and batting in the seventh spot.
According to MLB.com, Callaspo told the Braves he was willing to accept the trade, which was awaiting the approval of commissioner Rob Manfred.
Under the collective bargaining agreement, Callaspo had the right to refuse a trade until June 15 because he signed with the Braves as a free agent last offseason. Callaspo had previously told reporters he rejected the trade because he liked his teammates and wanted to finish the season in Atlanta. 
The Dodgers viewed Alberto Callaspo as a better option off the bench because he rarely strikes out and has been adept at times in his career at getting on base. 
AP Photo/John Minchillo
Uribe, 36, was a key piece of the Dodgers' NL West-leading 2014 team, batting .311 with nine home runs and playing stellar defense at third base.
But the hot hitting of Justin Turner and Alex Guerrero allowed them to push ahead of Uribe on the Dodgers' depth chart at third base. In addition, Cuban defector Hector Olivera is working out at the team's facility in Arizona and could join the mix at the position as soon as a month from now. 
"He never fell from grace. Juan has never done anything wrong," Dodgers manager Don Mattingly said. "In professional sports, the guy that performs is the one who plays for the most part."
The Dodgers viewed Callaspo as a better option off the bench because he rarely strikes out and has been adept at times in his career at getting on base.
Uribe is making $6.5 million this season. Callaspo is making $3 million.
The proposed trade started brewing before Monday night's 6-3 Dodgers win against the Braves at Dodger Stadium. Atlanta manager Fredi Gonzalez said after the game that Callaspo had been scratched 20 minutes before first pitch because of a potential deal.
"We didn't want him to get hurt," Gonzalez said. "So, that was the reason he got taken out of the lineup."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
0 Shares


Published May 27, 2015
Los Angeles, CA (SportsNetwork.com) - Clayton Kershaw bounced back from a loss and the Los Angeles Dodgers defeated the Atlanta Braves, 8-0, on Tuesday in the second of three at Chavez Ravine.
Kershaw (3-3) struck out 10 in seven scoreless innings as he continued his dominance of Atlanta.
The reigning NL Cy Young Award winner and league MVP improved to 3-0 in eight career starts against the Braves, with the Dodgers going 6-2 in those outings.
Adrian Gonzalez hit a two-run homer and Andre Ethier also drove in two runs for Los Angeles, which has won two straight and four of five.
Atlanta starter Julio Teheran (4-2) was roughed up for eight runs on 10 hits in 4 1/3 innings.
Kershaw kept the Braves hitless for the first four innings, then the Los Angeles offense gave him plenty of support in the home fourth.
Howie Kendrick doubled home Jimmy Rollins to open the scoring. Gonzalez was intentionally walked and Justin Turner followed with a base hit that plated Kendrick for a 2-0 lead. Doubles by Ethier and A.J. Ellis later in the frame brought three more runs across, and Kershaw helped himself with an RBI single to make it 6-0.
Gonzalez launched his 10th homer of the season in the fifth to run Teheran from the game and stretch the lead to 8-0 through five.
Kershaw struck out the side in the sixth and added two more in the seventh to close out his night.
J.P. Howell pitched the eighth and Sergio Santos pitched the ninth to secure the win.
Game Notes
Gonzalez needed one RBI entering the game to reach 1,000 for his career ... Teheran is 0-4 in four starts against Los Angeles ... The Dodgers went 4-for-4 with runners in scoring position.
Advertisement

