5mMark Saxon
Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later tonight or Wednesday morning.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images
8h
Cincinnati Reds starter Johnny Cueto will miss at least one more start after an MRI found inflammation in his pitching elbow.
Play0:59
2h
ST. LOUIS --  The Cardinals anticipate first baseman Matt Adams will be placed on the 15-day disabled list after straining his right quadriceps while running out a double in the fifth inning.
Tom Szczerbowski/Getty Images
7h
Blue Jays slugger Jose Bautista is back in the starting lineup for Tuesday's game against the White Sox and says his sore right shoulder is pain free after a cortisone shot.
AP Photo/John Bazemore
7h
A week after firing Mike Redmond and replacing him with Dan Jennings, the Marlins reassigned third base coach Brett Butler on Tuesday and replaced him with assistant hitting coach Lenny Harris.
Play3:26
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans like Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
Play0:58
2h
Kris Bryant and Bryce Harper traded solo blasts, but Addison Russell's double in the bottom of the ninth won the game for the Cubs.
3 Related
Bryce Harper's fast start to the season has shown what he truly could be capable of doing over the long haul.
AP Photo/Kathy Willens
3hAndrew Marchand
Five signs of hope for the New York Yankees as they pass the Memorial Day mark in contention in the American League East.
Play0:21
2hDavid Schoenfield
The first returns are in on the All-Star voting and the Kansas City Royals have leaders at five positions.
Play3:15
10hStephania Bell
Stephania Bell checks in with her insight on the injuries to David Wright and Victor Martinez -- including when each of them may return to action.
Play3:40
11h
A little pine tar here. Some rosin and sunscreen there. Baseball Tonight's Dallas Braden and Alex Cora explain how to cheat in baseball.
2 Related
16hDavid Schoenfield
Jeremy Guthrie of the Kansas City Royals put up this pitching line on Monday against the Yankees: 1 IP, 9 H, 11 R, 11 ER, 3 BB, 1 SO, 4 HR.
Play1:06
5d
Jim Bowden lays out the 20 players most likely to be traded by July 31, rating each one on their chances of being dealt and looking at where they might end up.
1 Related
Juan Uribe bids adieu to Dodgers with trade to Braves apparent
LOS ANGELES --  Los Angeles Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later that night or Wednesday morning.
According to reports, the Dodgers will receive Alberto Callaspo , left-handed pitchers Eric Stults and Ian Thomas and right-handed pitcher Juan Jaime in exchange for Uribe and right-hander Chris Withrow , who is recovering from Tommy John and back surgeries and is not expected to pitch in 2015.
Juan Uribe, when asked Tuesday night what he would miss about playing for the Dodgers, got choked up, pointed toward the team's clubhouse, excused himself and walked away. 
Dilip Vishwanat/Getty Images
Uribe, when he was asked what he would miss about playing for the Dodgers, got choked up, pointed toward the team's clubhouse, where his teammates were getting dressed after an 8-0 win over the Braves, excused himself and walked away.
Uribe was not in the Dodgers' dugout after the playing of the national anthem. The Dodgers did not confirm the trade after the game.
A deal that would have sent Uribe to the Braves for Callaspo had been blocked by Callaspo earlier in the day. 
But the Braves announced about 15 minutes before the first pitch that Pedro Ciriaco was replacing Callaspo at third base and batting in the seventh spot.
According to MLB.com, Callaspo told the Braves he was willing to accept the trade, which was awaiting the approval of commissioner Rob Manfred.
Under the collective bargaining agreement, Callaspo had the right to refuse a trade until June 15 because he signed with the Braves as a free agent last offseason. Callaspo had previously told reporters he rejected the trade because he liked his teammates and wanted to finish the season in Atlanta. 
The Dodgers viewed Alberto Callaspo as a better option off the bench because he rarely strikes out and has been adept at times in his career at getting on base. 
AP Photo/John Minchillo
Uribe, 36, was a key piece of the Dodgers' NL West-leading 2014 team, batting .311 with nine home runs and playing stellar defense at third base.
But the hot hitting of Justin Turner and Alex Guerrero allowed them to push ahead of Uribe on the Dodgers' depth chart at third base. In addition, Cuban defector Hector Olivera is working out at the team's facility in Arizona and could join the mix at the position as soon as a month from now. 
"He never fell from grace. Juan has never done anything wrong," Dodgers manager Don Mattingly said. "In professional sports, the guy that performs is the one who plays for the most part."
The Dodgers viewed Callaspo as a better option off the bench because he rarely strikes out and has been adept at times in his career at getting on base.
Uribe is making $6.5 million this season. Callaspo is making $3 million.
The proposed trade started brewing before Monday night's 6-3 Dodgers win against the Braves at Dodger Stadium. Atlanta manager Fredi Gonzalez said after the game that Callaspo had been scratched 20 minutes before first pitch because of a potential deal.
"We didn't want him to get hurt," Gonzalez said. "So, that was the reason he got taken out of the lineup."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
0 Shares


May 26, 2015
Updated  10:04 p.m.
Dodgers third baseman Juan Uribe might still be traded to the Atlanta Braves. File photo
LOS ANGELES -- A trade that would send Dodgers third baseman Juan Uribe to the Atlanta Braves for Alberto Callaspo appears to be back on despite Callaspo originally vetoing the deal.
For the second night in a row at Dodger Stadium, Callaspo was in the lineup as the Braves' starting third baseman only to be scratched at the last minute. This time, the Braves went the unusual route of posting on the team's official Twitter account that Callaspo had been "scratched due to trade talks being revisited."
Callaspo cannot be traded before June 15 without his consent because he signed as a free agent with the Braves last winter. He was scratched from the Braves' lineup before Monday's game. After the game, Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez revealed that Callapso had been scratched because a trade was pending.
Dodgers officials would not comment on the trade. But Callaspo told reporters before Tuesday's game that he vetoed the trade because he liked the Braves and his teammates and hoped to stay with them all season.
That seems like a  longshot regardless of the outcome of the on-and-off negotiations with the Dodgers.
Signed for one year at $3 million, Callaspo, 32, is batting .206 with only one extra-base hit (a home run) in 37 games. The Dodgers might get another chance to acquire him -- the Braves are likely to designate him for assignment when third baseman Chris Johnson returns from the DL later this week. Johnson is currently on an injury-rehabilitation assignment with Triple-A Gwinnett.
It is unclear how much farther the deal would go. The Dodgers reportedly would have received some minor-league pitching in the original trade and might have sent along a minor-leaguer to the Braves as well. The Braves also have two competitive-balance picks that can be traded. The Dodgers acquired one competitive-balance pick from the Baltimore Orioles earlier this season.
Uribe, meanwhile, has become marginalized in the Dodgers' plans with the emergence of Alex Guerrero and the continued strong play of Justin Turner. Uribe, 36, is hitting .247 with one home run in the final year of his contract with the Dodgers.
"It's just a matter of respecting their decision," Uribe said through an interpreter before the game. "I have no emotions over it.
"You never know what happens in this game. If I play on another team, then I play on another team."
Most popular
Comments are encouraged, but you must follow our User Agreement
Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial     slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about     tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to     allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to     republish your name and comment in additional Register publications     without any notification or payment.
Business Directory

