Recent
Recent
RECENT
Recent
Recent
MORE
MORE
RECENT
Saved
× Close Ad
St. Louis Blues head coach Ken Hitchcock speaks during a news conference Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in St. Louis. The Blues are sticking with Hitchcock for another season, announcing the veteran NHL hockey coach has signed a one-year contract with the team. (AP Photo/Jeff Roberson)
Related Links
Given the chance to repeat the tried, predictable, failed solution, the Blues this time decided to bring back an experienced head coach, even if they needed four weeks to maintain their grip.
The easy step for ownership and general manager Doug Armstrong would have been to dismiss Ken Hitchcock following another postseason limp, then market the team around a younger, “exciting,” player-friendly bench figure prone to yell at referees and maybe hurl a stick or two. The Blues briefly groped for free agent Mike Babcock, then returned to what they know, a future Hall of Fame coach who insists he remains open to change — and hopefully a second-round playoff win — at age 63.
The “search” may have been a bit clumsy. The resulting statement is laudable: If success should be shared, disappointment can be, too.
On Tuesday night, Armstrong called his shared tenure here with Hitchcock a glass three-quarters full. “When we got here, we were a poor team. Now we’re a good team that has a poor playoff record,” Armstrong said.
Hitch won a Jack Adams Award as NHL coach of the year his first season here. The Blues amassed 50 regular-season wins the last two. The other was a strike season that never found its legs locally. No team has amassed more points than the Blues have under Hitchcock the last four seasons.
“I like what Ken has brought to the franchise. He’s has been a reason for success. There are others as well. But we have to take the playoff failure as a group. ... That includes the players. I don’t want to believe they’re not culpable,” said Armstrong, the roster maker.
Hitchcock returns on a one-year deal, not ideal given the need for “buy-in” but also not unique to his St. Louis term. The Blues reject the “lame-duck” tag as a ready reason for players who might experience Hitchcock fatigue. Given the team’s lack of playoff resilience, I’m not so sure. As the adage holds, if you want a reason to fire a coach, just ask a player.
Asked about the possibility his grinding style worsens late-season fatigue, Hitch offered no apologies. “I don’t think that’s valid at all. I want the accelerator down when we play.”
Armstrong called the theory “a made-up fallacy.” Hmmm.
Yet the delay between the Minnesota Wild’s six-game dismissal of the Blues and Tuesday’s announcement also allowed for an exchange of ideas and critiques between longtime friends.
The coach admits his presence can increase “the squeeze” on his team. A holdover coaching staff may take on more speaking parts. Hitchcock also recognized a need for this team to play faster and more “reckless,” a reference to possible role changes. It’s fair to speculate if David Backes’ lasting move from center to right wing looms and if $28 million man Paul Stastny’s promotion to one of the first two lines is the vehicle to make it happen. Robert Bortuzzo and Petteri Lindbohm must be considered two of the top seven defensemen, a commitment that could alter Barret Jackman’s status.
By retaining Hitchcock, Armstrong has also doubled down on his role.
The Blues can’t expect buy-in from a jilted fan base with mere tweaks to a roster that’s never experienced the thrill of winning a second-round playoff game.
Worse, this franchise has built a reputation for quick, messy folds when faced with April deficits.
Armstrong must know this. At core, his record here is Hitchcock’s record.
The Blues have shown themselves too gifted, too potentially special to completely disassemble. However, they’ve played the same off-key tune for so many springs that the status quo is unacceptable. It’s time for management to address the postseason missing man formation.
Armstrong said he didn’t want Hitchcock to return “out of anger and disappointment.” He prefers passion for the job.
“This is unfinished business for me,” Hitchcock said at Tuesday’s presser. “I don’t want to coach to coach. I want to coach to win.”
The quote was part TLR, part Rockne. It needs to translate with a room that possesses inarguable talent but an inconsistent carburetor.
“Embrace your skill, trust your work,” is how Hitchcock puts it. He perceived inconsistent work habits before January, achieved a balance for three months, then believes the club reverted against the Wild.
“We didn’t value the work part of the game,” Hitchcock said. “It popped up in the playoffs. It wasn’t there all the time. You’ve got to have that balance. I felt we were the other way. We were discouraged too easily. Other coaches have to sell it. It’s not just me. The players have to demand it.”
No doubt Hitchcock’s words may rankle a portion of the room. Neither owner Tom Stillman nor Armstrong has denied rub between coach and players. The explanation is it happens universally.
Change isn’t confined to rank and file. Different buttons need to be pushed. To a long-enduring fan base, January’s play list isn’t so seductive when the April set is so off key. “The league went faster this year than it ever had before. We’ve got to get caught up,” Hitchcock said. “It’s not the personnel. It’s how you play the personnel. You can get quicker in a hurry by moving players” on the ice.
The Blues revealed much of their strategy Tuesday at Scottrade Center. Next season will either be more fulfilling or be Hitchcock’s last here.
Armstrong insists his relationship with Hitchcock isn’t the controlling element. Hitchcock learned the job was not automatically his if he wanted it.
“It didn’t weigh on me,” Armstrong insisted. “It’s a 20-year friendship that we have. This is just part of the job responsibility. Every day any coach or manager is one day closer to being relieved of his duties. It’s the nature of the sport. If you want more security go into college sports.”
The Blues have narrowed the options for changing next season’s mix. Some players may get their wish for an altered style. Others may find themselves in a different city. Hitchcock is back for a season. The roster rubs the salary cap. One gets the feeling this is the last time for wait ’til next year.
​Joe Strauss
jstrauss@post-dispatch.com
Copyright 2015 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with www.stltoday.com account:
Username & Password Required!

