Exhibit on the life of Mary Todd Lincoln on display
Last updated: April 09. 2015 11:55AM - 362 Views
Special to Civitas Media
HARROGATE, Tenn. — Abraham Lincoln Library and Museum (ALLM) on the campus of Lincoln Memorial University (LMU) will host a free screening of the DreamWorks Studios Academy Award Winning film Lincoln, directed by Steven Spielberg, at 7 p.m. on April 14 in the Arnold Auditorium.
Based on the best-selling book, Team of Rivals, by historian Doris Kearns Goodwin, Lincoln was written for the screen by Pulitzer Prize winner, Tony Award winner and Academy Award nominated writer Tony Kushner. It was produced by Spielberg and Kathleen Kennedy and released in theaters in 2012.
Lincoln earned 12 Academy Award nominations, winning in the categories of Best Actor for Daniel Day-Lewis, and Best Production Design. The film focuses on President Lincoln’s tumultuous final months in office, during which he pursues a course of action to end the Civil War, unite the country and abolish slavery.
The ALLM has collaborated with DreamWorks Studios on the temporary exhibit “Clouds and Darkness Surround Us: The Life of Mary Todd Lincoln” featuring costumes from the film Lincoln. Costume designer Joanna Johnston earned an Academy Award nomination for her work on the film where she helped stars like Sally Field (as Mary Todd Lincoln), Daniel Day-Lewis (as Abraham Lincoln), Gloria Reuben (as Mary Todd Lincoln’s confidant Elizabeth Keckley), Tommy Lee Jones (as Thaddeus Stevens), Joseph Gordon-Levitt (as Robert Todd Lincoln) and others dive into their characters through period dress.
The display will be enhanced with artifacts, replicas and memorabilia from the ALLM collection. The temporary exhibit will be on display in Harrogate, Tenn. through Nov. 20.
The ALLM will open at 6:15 p.m., to allow guests to tour the museum and view the temporary exhibit. A short question and answer session will take place after the screening. Seating is limited. For more information, call 423-869-6235.
The Abraham Lincoln Library and Museum is located on the historic campus of Lincoln Memorial University in Harrogate, Tenn. Housing one of the top five Lincoln and Civil War private collections in the world, the Museum is open Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturday from noon to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. For more information about this and other programs at the Abraham Lincoln Library and Museum, call 423-869-6235.
Contribute
Comments
All user comments are subject to our Terms of Service. Users may flag inappropriate comments.
Primary Phone:

