Featured
Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By MARIE FRENCH Associated Press
04/03/2015 12:27 AM
04/03/2015 12:27 AM
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo.
A prescription drug monitoring system that supporters say would be the most secure in the country was approved Thursday by the Missouri Senate.
Missouri is the only state in the U.S. without a system to track prescriptions and sales of highly addictive medications such as painkillers. The proposal has been held up in previous years because of privacy concerns about the data collected by the database, but this year's measure includes enhanced protections and penalties for misuse.
"We probably have the most secure, the most effective PDMP (prescription drug monitoring program) in the U.S.," said the measure's sponsor Sen. David Sater, R-Cassville.
The bill, passed 24-10, would create a monitoring program to track when prescriptions for controlled drugs are written and filled, with the goal of preventing abuse of pills such as painkillers through "doctor shopping." That entails stockpiling medications to feed personal addictions or sell on the black market.
Compromises to ease concerns included a mandate that the database be encrypted, a sunset requiring the Legislature reconsider the program in 2020 and a 180-day time limit on keeping prescription information.
Despite the added protections, 10 Republican senators voted against the measure, expressing continued concern about the collection of peoples' information. A 2011 release of the state's concealed carry information by the Highway Patrol has fueled criticism of creating another database.
"This is so personal. The implications are enormous for people that might be affected if their medical information was disclosed to third parties," said Sen. Eric Schmitt, R-Glendale. "It's not a matter of if, it's a matter of when."
---
---
Oops, you haven't selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops, you didn't provide a valid email address. Please double-check the email field and submit again.
Sign up for email newsletters
Dave Barry (Mondays) Don't miss Dave's newest column or weblog post.
Health & Fitness (Tuesday) Eat and exercise the South Florida way.
Weekend Concierge When mid-week rolls around, it's time to start thinking about play. Get the latest on restaurant openings, movie reviews, nightlife, shopping and things to do. - Powered by Miami.com.
Gay South Florida (Monday - Friday) Steve Rothaus brings you the latest in the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender community.
Great Escapes Hot travel sales and last minute specials on hotels, cars, flights and more.
Family Fare (Wednesdays) Have a family? Then this is your source for family friendly events, education news, health news and other important topics that parents need to know.
Partner Offers Other discounts and special offers from our carefully screened partners.
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

