Detroit council spend raise angers retirees facing cuts
Detroit City Council President Brenda Jones speaks for the duration of the Michigan Democratic Party Spring Convention at Cobo Center in Detroit on Saturday, Feb. 14, 2015. (Photo: Kimberly P. Mitchell)DETROIT — Among the 25 largest cities in the country,...
Detroit City Council President Brenda Jones speaks for the duration of the Michigan Democratic Party Spring Convention at Cobo Center in Detroit on Saturday, Feb. 14, 2015. (Photo: Kimberly P. Mitchell)
DETROIT — Among the 25 largest cities in the country, Detroit ranks No. 11 when it comes to city council members' pay, according to a Cost-free Press analysis.
The Detroit Elected Officials Compensation Commission earlier this week encouraged a two.five% spend raise starting in July of subsequent year for Detroit's council members and clerk.
The situation sparked a passionate debate involving retirees angered by the prospect of council members getting raises mere weeks following pension cuts decided in Detroit's bankruptcy kicked in.
Factored into the compensation commission's recommendation was a study by the city's human resource division that cited salaries paid to elected officials in other huge cities.
But the study did not incorporate several other cities with populations related to Detroit's. The Totally free Press' salary information does not incorporate well being care advantages or extra perks such as car or truck allowance, the use of a public car or truck or additional pay some cities afford council members for service on committees, for example. Nor does is differentiate among cities with complete or part-time councils and these with a sturdy mayor type of government.
USA Now
Q and A: Detroit exits bankruptcy
Without the raises, Detroit's council members rank 11th highest in salary amongst the 25 largest cities in the U.S. The median salary among the 25 largest cities is in Austin, Texas, at $70,075.
The report from the city's human resource division cited council member salaries of other smaller sized cities which includes Cleveland ($76,259), Milwaukee ($73,222) and Baltimore ($64,491). In the Detroit report the salary for Boston City Council members was incorrect, according to Boston city officials. Council members basically make $87,500.
Mobile users click right here for the salary database.
The commission's recommendation would improve spend for council members and the clerk from $76,840 to $78,761 and the council president's spend would improve from $80,757 to $82,776.
Compensation commission Chairman Samuel Buzz Thomas III mentioned the raises had been suggested because the city's four-year financial strategy makes offered dollars to pay for a two.five% spend enhance for elected officials.
"We followed the budget. That was, in our estimation, the acceptable thing to do," said Thomas, a former state lawmaker. "This was decided not by us, but by the other folks who were leading the city forward and organizing for the subsequent 4 years and we felt it essential that we respect their operate."
The raises will take impact July 1, 2016, unless a two-thirds majority of the City Council votes against them by April 29. An affirmative vote is not required, so it is probable the council will not bring the situation up for a vote, allowing the deadline to pass and the raises to be finalized silently.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
05 April 2015 Sunday 20:58
10 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.

