 
By GARRY RAYNO
State House Bureau
CONCORD — A last-ditch effort to legalize casino gambling would prevent New Hampshire from losing crucial state revenue to Massachusetts, a House Committee was told Tuesday.
New Hampshire would lose $50 million in rooms and meals tax money annually once Massachusetts casinos open, Senate President Chuck Morse, R-Salem, told the House Ways and Means Committee.
But opponents called casino revenue the crack cocaine of government funding, and said the social costs far outweigh whatever money the state reaps from slots and table games.
The longtime prime sponsor of casino gambling bills, Sen. Lou D’Allesandro, D-Manchester, told committee members they have an opportunity to create jobs and spur the state’s economy, although the committee and the House have traditionally killed off expanded gambling proposals.
Senate Bill 113 would establish two casinos — one a large destination resort with a minimum investment of $450 million, and a smaller facility with a minimum investment of $125 million.
“That’s private money that will put carpenters, electricians, bricklayers and laborers to work,” D’Allesandro said. “I consider this the last best hope for New Hampshire. I have a lifespan.”
D’Allesandro and others argued revenues from casinos could help provide state services that lawmakers from both parties support, and prevent budget squeezes from forcing budget writers to choose which needs to address every two years.
Morse told the committee if the House lets this opportunity pass, the casinos will be built in Massachusetts and “New Hampshire people’s money will be fueling jobs elsewhere and funding a state budget elsewhere.”
Social costs
But opponents argued casinos would irrevocably change the face and character of the Granite State.
Attorney General Joseph Foster said he worries about the potential for political corruption with the influx of casino money.
“Why bring this to New Hampshire?” Foster argued. “While the revenue is very tempting, the (social) costs are very real.”
Others argued that states are seeing declining gaming revenue as casino gambling or slot machines proliferate.
“Casinos are the crack cocaine of government funding,” said Concord businessman Steve Duprey, spokesman for two anti-casino organizations. “It’s addictive, it’s erratic and once you’re hooked, the state never gets straight.”
Once a $1.5 billion gaming facility opens in Everett, Mass., Duprey said, a casino in New Hampshire will be a local gaming parlor taking money from local residents.
‘A passion for revenue’
Under D’Allesandro’s bill, the state would reap $120 million in licensing fees during the next biennium which begins July 1, and would receive between $80 million and $130 million in revenue once the two facilities are fully operating with 240 table games and 5,000 video slot machines.
The plan would re-establish $25.2 million in annual revenue sharing with cities and towns. Revenue sharing has been suspended in the last four state budget cycles.
SB 113 would establish a gaming commission to oversee all gambling in the state, including divisions for the Lottery Commission and the Racing and Charitable Gaming Commission.
“I don’t have a passion for gambling,” said Rep. Katherine Rogers, D-Concord, and a bill sponsor. “I have a passion for revenue.”
She listed reductions made in the House’s proposed budget to make the spending meet the revenue projections for the next two years, noting tens of millions of dollars in costs were downshifted to local property taxes.
Former Rep. Tom Schamberg, D-Wilmot, and a town selectmen, said he once opposed expanded gambling, but changed his mind when he realized there is not enough revenue.
A great deal of “belt-tightening” occurred in the budget the House passed last week, he noted.
“But those belt-tightening decisions have caused consequences all the way down to the town level,” Schamberg said. “The town of Wilmot can’t depend on any state assistance to help with a recent red-listed bridge, replacing a failed 38-year-old firetruck, or increased budget costs for our portion of the Kearsarge Regional School District budget or the Merrimack County Nursing Home operations. Those unexpected and increased cost for a small town mean cuts elsewhere or a tax hike for our town residents.”
Two years ago, newly elected Gov. Maggie Hassan pushed for one high-end, highly regulated casino on the state’s southern border. Several casino plans were killed by the House, one losing by one vote. Hassan has said she still supports expanding gaming for additional revenue.
A House Ways and Means subcommittee will work on the bill before the committee decides what recommendation it will make.
grayno@unionleader.com
Sunday, 2 p.m.
Saturday, 8 p.m.
* e-Edition subscription required
More State Government
Tags

