Select Portfolio and Asset Combination for Display on Market Band
Select Portfolio
ET NOW RADIO
FREE ET MARKETS APP
BREAKING NEWS
Iraq needs multi-sectarian force to fight ISIS: White House press secretary Josh Earnest
By PTI | 27 May, 2015, 10.19AM IST
Iraq needs a multi-sectarian force to fight the expanding ISIS terrorist organisation in the country, the White House has said.
WASHINGTON: Iraq needs a multi-sectarian force to fight the expanding ISIS terrorist organisation in the country, the White House has said.
"We can't just see Shia Iraqi security forces fighting in Shia parts of the country, but rather, that we need to see a multi-sectarian force that's being deployed to every area of that country to protect it and to counter the threat from ISIL," White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters at his daily news conference.
Iraq, he said, will require a central government that is committed to governing country in an inclusive fashion against the ISIS, which also goes by other acronyms like ISIL.
"We have seen (Iraqi) Prime Minister follow through on those commitments in the first nine months or so that he has been in office, that he has sought to unite that country to govern in a multi-sectarian fashion," he said.
With ISIS gaining control over new areas in the country, sending alarm bells to the US and its allies, Earnest said what will be critical to the success of the Iraqi people in facing the ISIL threat is pulling the diversity of that country together to stand up to it.
"That's going to start with the political leadership in Iraq.
The previous Prime Minster -- Prime Minister al-Maliki -- had governed that country in a sectarian fashion that left the Sunni elements of the population and even some of the Kurdish elements of the population convinced that he wasn't particularly interested or vested in their security -- or in their security needs," he said.
"There are also differences when it comes to economic policy, too, and that there were some concerns about government funds and investment from the central government in the Kurdish and Sunni areas of the country," he added.
The US, he said, has a coalition of more than 60 countries against ISIS "and we continue to be in regular touch with our partners about steps that they can take to support our ongoing strategy to degrade and ultimately destroy ISIL."
"Whether that is a military contribution, or a contribution to the training effort or the ongoing effort to shut down the flow of foreign fighters, or to counter ISIL's messaging online, that there is a variety of elements to this strategy.
"And we certainly welcome the contribution that we have received from so many members of our coalition," Earnest said.
Stay on top of business news with The Economic Times App. Download it Now!
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Browse Companies
Browse Mutual Funds
BACK TO TOP
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Others

