Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By EMILY WAGSTER PETTUS Associated Press
04/04/2015 10:52 AM
04/04/2015 10:52 AM
JACKSON, Miss.
Mississippi lawmakers finished their three-month session last week and returned home with plenty of campaign fodder as most of the 122 House members and 52 senators seek re-election.
The parties were sharply divided on the biggest headline grabber of the session — tax cut proposals that failed.
Republicans hold a majority in both chambers, and they pushed to reduce franchise and income taxes. House Democrats rallied enough votes to block those efforts, arguing that the state needs to hold onto money to pay for schools, highways, health care and other services.
It takes a three-fifths majority in both chambers to increase or decrease taxes, and Republicans couldn't persuade enough Democrats for form an alliance in the House.
"I think we have seen real improvement in government, a real distinction between Republicans and Democrats," House Speaker Philip Gunn, R-Clinton, told reporters as the three-month session ended Thursday. "I think a bright line has been drawn between the priorities of the two."
House Democratic Leader Bobby Moak of Bogue Chitto said the nearly $6.3 billion budget that lawmakers adopted showed that the tax cut efforts were a political ploy. Many state agencies, including the Department of Corrections, received less money than they requested for the year that starts July 1. While Republican leaders say education is receiving record levels of spending, critics point out that a school budget formula is underfunded by $201 million.
"All the talk about tax decreases, tax credits, tax giveaways was just political-year talk," Moak said. "It was proven by their own actions that there was not money to do that."
----
PASSED
TEXTING & DRIVING — House Bill 389 (http://bit.ly/1MMz3dV ) will ban people from texting or using social media sites on a cellphone or other hand-held electronic device while driving. The fine will be $25 the first year the law is in effect and $100 after that. Gov. Phil Bryant has signed the bill, which becomes law July 1.
INSPECTION STICKERS — House Bill 982 (http://bit.ly/1E8zA1C ) will eliminate the $5 annual vehicle inspection sticker, starting July 1. Drivers with tinted windows will still need to get a one-time inspection.
EDUCATION CHEATING — Senate Bill 2258 (http://bit.ly/1CPrLiY ) would tighten sanctions against schools where cheating occurs. The state Board of Education issue could subpoenas to investigate cheating on standardized tests. School principals would be required to swear that tests were given following state rules, and they would have to report all potential violations. If Bryant signs it, the bill would become law immediately.
SPECIAL EDUCATION VOUCHERS — Senate Bill 2695 (http://bit.ly/1ykivgm ) would create $6,500-a-year vouchers for up to 500 special-education students the first year. The program would increase by 500 a year until it reaches 2,500 students. Money could go toward private school tuition, tutoring or other education services outside the public schools. Gov. Phil Bryant plans to sign the bill, which would become law immediately.
GUNS — Senate Bill 2394 (http://bit.ly/1AjNws4 ) would eliminate the need for a concealed-carry license to have a gun in a purse, briefcase or enclosed satchel. It also would reduce the fee for a new concealed-carry license $80 from $100, and the renewal fee for people younger than 65 would drop to $40 from $50. For people 65 and older, the renewal fee would drop to $20 from $25.
HOSPITAL BOARDS — Senate Bill 2407 (http://bit.ly/1M3GVSK ) would require boards of publicly owned hospitals to keep most of their meetings open to the public. The boards could hold closed meetings to discuss patient information, competitive business matters or employment contracts for physicians and other workers. The bill was filed in response to losses in the Singing River Hospital pension program. Problems existed for months before becoming publicly known, partly because the hospital board was meeting in private. Bryant says he intends to go to the Gulf Coast to sign the bill, which will become law Jan. 1.
PRISON EMPLOYEES — Senate Bill 2804 (http://bit.ly/1AfOx4a ) would remove civil-service protection from Mississippi Department of Corrections employees for one year, making it easier for the corrections commissioner to hire or fire workers. If Bryant signs the bill, it would become law July 1.
----
KILLED
VACCINATIONS — House Bill 130 (http://bit.ly/1F3p0fM ) would have let a doctor grant a patient's request for an exemption to vaccination requirements to enter school or day care, without seeking permission from the state Department of Health. People who are skeptical about childhood vaccination schedules sought the change. Opposition came from the state health officer, Dr. Mary Currier, who said the Health Department already grants exemptions. The bill passed a House committee but died without coming up for a vote in the full House.
HOME SCHOOL SPORTS — Senate Bill 2329 (http://bit.ly/1NNgnb2 ), called the "Tim Tebow Act," would have allowed home-schooled students to participate in sports, cheerleading and other extracurricular activities at a local public school. It was named for the Heisman-winning quarterback who was home-schooled but played public school sports in Florida. The bill was defeated in the Senate.
CHURCH BUSES — House Bill 132 (http://bit.ly/1NNgXFN ) would have exempted drivers of church buses with 30 or fewer seats from the requirement to have a commercial driver's license. Dubbed the "Jesus, take the wheel" bill, it passed the House but died in the Senate Judiciary B Committee.
----
Related
Related
Oops, you haven't selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops, you didn't provide a valid email address. Please double-check the email field and submit again.
Sign up for email newsletters
Dave Barry (Mondays) Don't miss Dave's newest column or weblog post.
Health & Fitness (Tuesday) Eat and exercise the South Florida way.
Weekend Concierge When mid-week rolls around, it's time to start thinking about play. Get the latest on restaurant openings, movie reviews, nightlife, shopping and things to do. - Powered by Miami.com.
Gay South Florida (Monday - Friday) Steve Rothaus brings you the latest in the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender community.
Great Escapes Hot travel sales and last minute specials on hotels, cars, flights and more.
Family Fare (Wednesdays) Have a family? Then this is your source for family friendly events, education news, health news and other important topics that parents need to know.
Partner Offers Other discounts and special offers from our carefully screened partners.
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

