Delivered To Your INBOX
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
Email Address
Shhh! Kylie Jenner Has A Secret
Kylie Jenner has a secret that she’s been keeping from her 24.5 million fans. The 17-year-old teen has been revealing when it comes to her controversial Instagram photos, Snapchat videos, and tweets. Now it looks like she’s keeping something to herself. Unsurprisingly, Kylie has been sharing more inappropriate photos from a secret photo shoot.
It’s not surprise that Kylie Jenner has been dressing older for her age. But some would say that the Keeping Up With the Kardashian star is trying too hard with her latest project. Jenner revealed some major underboob in a shocking new photo.
The photo shows the Instagram model laying by the pool in a tan crop top with cut-outs that expose her breasts. She paired her super sexy look with a pair of light blue crochet underpants and gold heeled stilettos.
Jenner captioned the photo: “Secret projects. @sir_neave”
She tagged the name of Neave Bozorgi, the photographer who’s behind some of her racy photos. If you take a look at his Instagram account, you’ll see that he’s taken several nude photos of models. Now, fans are wondering if Kylie will start to pose nude once she turns 18 in August.
That’s not the only photo that Kylie posted. She shared another photo of herself in the same outfit, but this time she’s dragging a white fur coat behind her. Kylie also shows off her new curves in this head-turning photo. She tagged photographer Neave Borzogi, makeup artist Joyce Bonelli, and stylist Monica Rose for her super mature look.
This happened just three days after Jenner shared a series of bikini photos around Memorial Day weekend. She showed off her bod in a black bikini top and ripped jeans. In one of the photos, Jenner added that Neave Bozorgi, Joyce Bonelli, and Monica Rose “make magic” in her secret photo shoots.
A week ago, the teen shared a revealing photo of herself wearing a black one-piece swimsuit that barely covered her breasts. Kylie paired her already sexy look with a pair of black lace-up over-the-knee boots. She also hinted to her followers that she was working behind the scenes of an upcoming photo shoot.
Where does Kylie Jenner’s photo shoots end up? The last time the reality star mentioned a “secret project,” she got slammed for using blackface in one of photos. The Jenner teen also notoriously posed in a bondage-style swimsuit and workout gear for another top-secret photo shoot . The photos from both of these shoots were only published on Kylie Jenner’s Instagram account. As far as the media and the fans know, the photos from both of these controversial shoots haven’t been published anywhere else.
There has been speculation on whether or not the teen is posing for actual photo shoots, or if she’s just using them to grab attention on Instagram. What are your thoughts on Kylie Jenner’s “secret projects”? Do you think they’ll ever get published in future magazines or advertisements?
Comments
Get Social
Join Us!
Latest Stories
Featured Articles
Delivered To Your INBOX
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
Email Address

