Associated Press
Image 1of/1
gallery_thumbnails_show|article-gallery-6192131|article-gallery-6192131|0
gallery_overlay_open|article-gallery-6192131|article-gallery-6192131|0
gallery_overlay_open_thumbs|article-gallery-6192131|article-gallery-6192131|0
Image 1 of 1
Raul Hector Castro served as U.S. ambassador to  El Salvador, Bolivia and Argentina.
Photo: ED HONDA / Associated Press
Raul Hector Castro served as U.S. ambassador to  El Salvador,...
Raul Castro, former Arizona governor, dies at 98
1 / 1
gallery_thumbs_close|article-gallery-6192131|article-gallery-6192131|0
gallery_overlay_close|article-gallery-6192131|article-gallery-6192131|0
PHOENIX — Raul Hector Castro , Arizona’s only Latino governor and an American ambassador to three countries, died Friday. He was 98.
Family spokesman James Garcia said Mr. Castro died in his sleep in San Diego, where he was in hospice care.
Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey said Mr. Castro “lived a full life of exemplary service to Arizona and its people.”
Mr. Castro was a self-made man, the embodiment of the American dream. He overcame poverty and discrimination to graduate from college and launch a successful career in politics and diplomacy.
“America is the land of opportunity,” Mr. Castro told the Associated Press in 2010. “Here, one can accomplish whatever they want to be. But you’ve got to work for it.”
Growing up on the U.S.-Mexico border near Douglas, Mr. Castro saw discrimination around him. He set out to beat the odds. When he couldn’t get a job as a teacher — schools didn’t hire educators of Mexican descent back then — he became a drifter for a while, working as a farm hand and boxing here and there.
He landed a job with the U.S. Consulate in the border city of Agua Prieta, Mexico. After five years, a senior official told him he was doing a great job but had no future in the foreign service — he had a Latino name and no Ivy League education. Mr. Castro quit and moved to Tucson.
A law school dean at the University of Arizona told Mr. Castro he wouldn’t be accepted because he couldn’t afford to quit a job teaching Spanish. Besides, the dean said, Latino students didn’t do well in law school.
Undeterred, Mr. Castro went to the university president, who convinced the dean to give him an opportunity to prove himself. He excelled and went on to be elected the first Latino county attorney and later the first Latino judge in Pima County Superior Court.
Born in Cananea, Mexico, in 1916, some 50 miles south of Arizona, Mr. Castro grew up in Arizona and graduated from Douglas High School . He was the second-youngest in a family with 12 children — 11 boys and one girl. His father was a union leader forced out of Mexico for organizing a strike at the mine in Cananea.
His father died when Mr. Castro was 12, and his mother became a midwife to feed the family. She delivered babies for the Mexican families around Douglas in exchange for flower, corn, beans and other staples.
Mr. Castro went on to serve as U.S. ambassador to three Latin American countries under three U.S. presidents. Lyndon Johnson sent him to El Salvador and later to Bolivia. He served there for a short time under Richard Nixon before returning to Arizona and making the first of two bids for governor.
He lost to Republican Jack Williams in 1970 by 1.5 percentage points, but he fared better four years later as the Republican Party was embroiled in the Watergate corruption scandal. Mr. Castro defeated Republican Russ Williams by less than 1 percentage point.
Mr. Castro was governor for two years before resigning when President Jimmy Carter appointed him ambassador to Argentina.
Mr. Castro is survived by his wife, Pat Castro, and daughters, Mary Pat James and Beth Castro.
Videos
1
2
3
7

