Report comes from the Obama Administration
Author: 69 News , follow: @69news, news@wfmz.com
Published: Apr 09 2015 10:35:32 PM EDT
AP
WASHINGTON -
The Obama Administration Thursday released a new report titled, United States of Trade   which highlights the importance of trade to Pennsylvania's economy and workforce. 
The report unveils new statistics, compiled by the U.S. Commerce Department, that highlight Pennsylvania's relationship with trade globally, and specifically with countries the Obama Administration is working to negotiate new trade agreements with.
The report also features a Pennsylvania small business that is using trade to unlock opportunity for its workers and lay the foundation for future growth.
Quick Clicks
"This report shows that the President's trade agenda puts American workers first," said U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Michael Froman. "In every state across the country good-paying jobs are tied to "Made in America" exports.
This report also tells the story of American small businesses that will benefit from tearing down trade barriers in markets around the globe, this is where we see a lot of opportunity for growth and more trade supported jobs.
With the Trans-Pacific Partnership we have a once-in-a-generation chance to unleash the economic potential of American small businesses and to level the playing field for our workers."
"From coast to coast, exports have played a critical role in economic growth and creating jobs in America," said Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker. "The reports we are releasing today demonstrate the impact of exports on American communities large and small.
They tell the story of thousands and thousands of U.S. businesses and 11.7 million American workers whose livelihoods are supported by exports each and every day.
President Obama has set an ambitious trade agenda that will put American workers first by creating opportunities for our businesses to sell their goods and services to the 95 percent of consumers who live outside the U.S.
This agenda includes passage of trade promotion legislation and the enactment of strong trade agreements that are essential to job creation, the economic security of our families, as well as our nation's competitiveness and national security."
President Obama has outlined an ambitious trade agenda that uses Made-in-America exports to support jobs, economic growth, and the American middle class. 
The United States is currently pursuing two major Free Trade Agreements, the Transpacific Partnership (TPP) that includes 11 Pacific Rim countries, and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) with the European Union.
These agreements compose nearly two-thirds of global GDP, and include some of the world's fastest growing regions. 
When complete, TPP and TTIP will unlock opportunities for American manufacturers and growers in markets around the globe.
The report was released by the U.S. Commerce Department and the Office of the United States Trade Representative.
Comments
The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. Please note by clicking on "Post" you acknowledge that you have read the TERMS OF USE and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. Your comments may be used on air.  Be polite. Inappropriate posts may be removed by the moderator.  Desktop and mobile versions of this site use independent comment threads.
14 MIN. AGO
Perhaps Thursday night's biggest vote before the Allentown School District's board of directors could be summed up this way…
READING, Pa.
A feisty face off took place Thursday night as Reading's mayoral candidates went toe to toe fighting for votes.
Southeastern  PA
Despite questions and concerns, the Quakertown Community School District School Board has decided to move forward with…
STROUD TOWNSHIP, Pa.
On Sunday the Stroud Area Regional Police were dispatched to the Stroud Mall, located in Stroud Township, for a reported…
Belvidere County's Board of Freeholders on Wednesday approved the 2015 fiscal year budget, which shows Warren taking in and…
Perhaps Thursday night's biggest vote before the Allentown School District's board of directors could be summed up this way…
Joe Raedle/Getty Images
Sometimes, you get what you pay for. But dollar stores also sell good products like these at a tremendous discount.
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

