Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
P.G. Sittenfeld has a big name-recognition challenge: Ohio Politics Roundup
P.G. Sittenfeld
Eighty-nine percent of Ohio voters don't know enough about Cincinnati City Councilman P.G. Sittenfeld to have an opinion of him (or his U.S. Senate campaign). (Associated Press file photo)
After a weeklong vacation, we're back with fresh survey results in Ohio's U.S. Senate race. Read on in today's Ohio Politics Roundup.
Ted Strickland starts out in front: New polling numbers from Quinnipiac University show a "tough re-election" fight for U.S. Sen. Rob Portman, writes Stephen Koff of the Northeast Ohio Media Group . Former Gov. Ted Strickland leads the Republican incumbent, 48 percent to 39 percent, among Buckeye State voters.
Some thoughts on the results ...
P.G. who? Strickland faces a primary challenge from Cincinnati City Councilman P.G. Sittenfeld, who is building a case for new leadership in Washington. But Portman would clobber Sittenfeld, 47 percent to 24 percent, if the election were held today. Eighty-nine percent of respondents don't know enough about Sittenfeld to have an opinion.
A frame of reference for 89 percent: In December 2012 , more than a year before the 2014 gubernatorial primary, 84 percent of Quinnipiac respondents didn't know enough about Cuyahoga County Executive Ed FitzGerald to have an opinion.
The Democrat went on to lose to Republican Gov. John Kasich in a landslide. FitzGerald's personal baggage played a role, but he struggled to raise the money necessary to raise his name identification outside his Greater Cleveland base.
But Sittenfeld is not FitzGerald: At least not when it comes to fundraising.
In a transparent effort to blunt this poor Quinnipiac showing, Sittenfeld's team on Monday revealed a first-quarter haul of $757,000. That's not surprising, given that Sittenfeld's allies were bragging that he had netted $500,000 of that in the first few weeks of his candidacy. It's still more than the $600,000 FitzGerald raised in his first six months as a gubernatorial candidate - and FitzGerald only raked in that much because he had the open support - and open checkbook - of the Ohio Democratic Party at the time.
"The fact that a candidate running statewide for the first time could raise more than three-quarters of a million dollars in less than three months shows how hungry people are for fresh ideas and bold new leadership," Sittenfeld spokesman Dale Butland said.
The real test for Sittenfeld is how many donors stick with him after this poll.
As for Portman ... It now should be abundantly clear why he's raising and spending money like his job depends on it. It does. Forty-four percent of the Quinnipiac voters don't know enough about the incumbent to have an opinion. Those who do aren't particularly impressed. If there's good news for Portman, it's that he has time - and should have plenty of money - to define Strickland and redefine himself.
Q poll on marijuana legalization: The same survey, reports NEOMG's Robert Higgs , found that "more than eight of every 10 Ohio voters support legalization of marijuana for medical use and a majority favor legalizing it for recreational use."
AP on Kasich's 'personality quirks': "If Ohio Gov. John Kasich joins the 2016 Republican presidential race, his friends and foes will be watching to see if his frenetic, unfiltered personality lights a fire in the contest or proves his undoing," Julie Carr Smyth and Steve Peoples write for the Associated Press . "You never really know with Kasich, a politician who can be just as abrasive as potential rival Chris Christie and may be even less guarded, now that the New Jersey governor is watching his words."
Kasich hunting for N.H. help? "In New Hampshire this past week, Matt Maroney, a former Mitt Romney alum with ground organizing experience, signed on with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's team," CNN's John King notes . "Others in the state reported calls coming in from Ohio Gov. John Kasich and, yes, even Donald Trump."
Washington Post looks at balanced budget push: "Conservative state legislators frustrated with the gridlock in Washington are increasingly turning to a plan to call a convention to consider a new amendment to the U.S. Constitution - an event that would be unprecedented in American history and one that could, some opponents predict, lead to complete political chaos," reports the Post's Reid Wilson . "Legislators in 27 states have passed applications for a convention to pass a balanced budget amendment. Proponents of a balanced budget requirement are planning to push for new applications in nine other states where Republicans control both chambers of the legislature."
Not mentioned in the otherwise comprehensive piece: Kasich, who has tried mightily to make himself the national spokesman for the balanced budget effort.
ICYMI: Cleveland, host of the 2016 Republican National Convention, had its first visit from a prospective GOP presidential candidate not named Kasich. Former IRS Commissioner Mark Everson spoke Friday at the City Club of Cleveland. NEOMG's John Harper has some takeaways after hearing the relatively obscure hopeful.
Bookmark Ohio Politics Roundup: Find each morning's roundup and past editions here . Tips or links? Send here . Follow along on Twitter: @henryjgomez .
Conservative enough? Jeb Bush's Right Angle
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy
cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

