Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Jimmy Dimora's house
Media wait outside Jimmy Dimora's house in Independence as U.S. Marshals prepare to take control of it. (John Kuntz, The Plain Dealer file)
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio -- The U.S. Marshals took possession of former Cuyahoga County Commissioner Jimmy Dimora's house Monday morning.
Deputy marshals walked into the home shortly after 8 a.m. They posted two pieces of paper on the door: the final order of forfeiture and a "no trespassing" sign. Officials remain at the scene.
Deputy U.S. Marshal Denise Bortnick said staff is changing the locks and inspecting the house. They will keep the house secure until it is sold, she said.
Deputy marshals hope to list the house for sale within two weeks. Bortnick said they have not chosen a Realtor.
The date was set in  an agreement Dimora made with prosecutors to have his wife, Lori, move out of the home six months after the end of the appeals process. The U.S. Supreme Court in October rejected Dimora's request to review his 2012 bribery and corruption convictions from a federal court in Cleveland.
Lori Dimora will be allowed to keep half of the proceeds from the sale.
Jimmy Dimora, 59, is serving a 28-year prison sentence  for committing a decade's worth of racketeering, bribery and corruption charges. He is being held at the Victorville medium security prison in San Bernardino County, California.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy
cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

