Purdy: Warriors have been good and lucky in NBA playoffs
When you saw Stephen Curry flying toward the hardwood floor Monday night, helpless in the vortex of NBA gravity, you were probably thinking horrible thoughts.
Not me. I was thinking: "Somehow, this will work out just fine."
And it has, apparently. Curry survived his fall and by all reports will start Game 5 against Houston on Wednesday. The Warriors persevere. The Warriors press onward toward the NBA Finals. The Warriors continue to ride basketball's longest and most glorious lucky streak.
Am I allowed to even mention that? It was why I was so convinced that Curry would emerge intact from his tumble. One reason the Warriors have been so incredibly successful in these playoffs is that they have been incredibly fortunate.
Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry (30) dribbles against Houston Rockets' Jason Terry (31) in the first quarter of Game 4 of the NBA Western Conference finals at the Toyota Center in Houston, Texas, on Monday, May 25, 2015.  (Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group)  ( José Carlos Fajardo )
It's not the only reason, understand. To watch the Warriors in fifth or sixth gear as they dismantle an opponent is a thing of beauty. It is performance art with ball screens and quick shot releases. They are really, really good. But they have also benefitted happily from providence.
Lucky ducks? That's a cliché. Instead, call them Lucky Dubs.
Of course, I realize that this proclamation will set off a rash of emails and tweets that I am demeaning the Warriors' achievements and being a spoilsport, hater, killjoy, idiot, whatever. Therefore, I promise to pause here for a paragraph so that everybody can go off to their favorite social media outlets and get all the rage out of their systems.
(Pause.)
Advertisement
There. Ready to calm down and hear me out? Every team that wins a championship is a great team. No team that holds up an ultimate trophy, especially after a gauntlet of seven-game playoff series, is a fluke. But those teams invariably receive breaks along the way.
This principle has held true for approximately forever. Almost 100 years ago, iconic sportswriter Grantland Rice wrote this poem: "Take all the credit you deserve, heads up in winning pride. But don't forget that Lady Luck was riding at your side."
Curry, in quotes after Monday's game, admitted he was a pure passenger during his free fall with no control over how he would land. He seemed gratefully surprised that he wasn't hurt worse, saying: "It's all kind of minor stuff compared to how it looked."
The Warriors' good fortune this spring has included a whole bunch of other stuff, as well. You can start with how the playoff bracket fell.  On paper, the three toughest playoff matchups for the Warriors figured to be the San Antonio Spurs, Los Angeles Clippers and Memphis Grizzlies.
Memphis, as expected, did give the Warriors problems and stretched them to six games. But again, a stroke of fate assisted. What if Grizzlies point guard Mike Conley, who sat out a Game 1 loss because of a healing facial fracture, had been able to play that night? Conley was dynamic when he did return and led a Memphis upset over the Warriors in Game 2. Later in the series, Memphis defensive specialist Tony Allen missed a game and then was hobbled by a hamstring problem.
On the flip side, the Warriors' only significant injury of the past six weeks has been to backup big man Marreese Speights, out since suffering a calf strain against Memphis and still unable to play. But even that injury's timing was fortuitous. When Speights went down, I flashed back to Curry's brilliant last-second game-tying jumper in Game 3 against New Orleans. Speights was the Warrior who hustled to grab the key rebound and pass the ball to Curry for the shot.
Would another Warrior have made that same play if Speights wasn't on the floor? Possibly. Possibly not. Was it luck that Speights didn't get hurt a few games earlier? Yes. It was.
Was it luck that Curry came down from his unscheduled flight with no grave injury? Yes. It was.
And did I mention the Finals forecast? The Warriors would play the Eastern Conference champion Cavaliers, who are hurting in a major way. A power forward who would pose problems, Kevin Love, is out after separating a shoulder in the first round. All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving missed two games in the conference finals because of knee tendinitis before suiting up Tuesday night. And the NBA's most accomplished player, LeBron James, has been nursing various injuries and owns up to fighting through pain to play every night.
You'll notice that no other NBA team has put itself in such excellent position to seize the opportunity being presented to them.
So far, the Warriors have been amazing at the seizing part. They also have been Lucky Dubs. There's no crime in being both.
Read Mark Purdy's blog at blogs.mercurynews.com/purdy . Contact him at mpurdy@mercurynews.com . Follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/MercPurdy .

