by Amy Auster
The term “fintech” – the marriage of financial services with technology companies – has only recently come into vogue in Australia, with venture capital starting to flow into the sector.
by Andrew Sadauskas
Two Australian health tech teams, one tackling Alzheimer’s and the other looking at student mental health, are hoping to follow in the footsteps of Eyenaemia after being named as finalists in the Imagine Cup global tournament.
Most Popular
Latest
by Kye White
Queensland scientists have developed an app that allows users to identify frogs by their calls.
Melbourne-based smart home startup Oomi has smashed its Indiegogo fundraising goal, raising $US1.5 million.
by Broede Carmody
Sydney is well on its way to becoming a hub for financial technology companies with the launch of two co-working spaces for fintech startups.
by Kye White
Coffee Meets Bagel, the startup which entrepreneur and investor Mark Cuban offered to buy for $US30 million on the US version of Shark Tank earlier this year, has launched in Australia.
LIVE BLOG
Wednesday, 27 May 2015 | By Kirsten Robb
 
 
 
 
 
 
StartupSmart is Australia’s leading news and advice resource for start-up businesses.
I wish to receive special offers via email from related companies
I would like to receive invitations to StartupSmart's free webinars
Follow Us
Sponsored Links
Melbourne, 3000
PHONE: (03) 8623 9950
FAX: (03) 8623 9975
Copyright © 2013 Private Media Pty Ltd, Publishers of StartupSmart All Rights Reserved
FREE
NEWSLETTER
Register now for the StartupSmart daily newsletter, an essential mix of news, advice & features.
Invalid Input
I'd like to receive SmartSolo - StartupSmart's weekly email for sole traders
Invalid Input
I wish to receive special offers via email from related companies
Invalid Input
Up-to-the minute news stories and feature articles
Access to an online community of fellow entrepreneurs
Regular start-up profiles, tech tips and start-up ideas
Are you a sole trader?
Register for the SmartSolo newsletter, an essential weekly news, tips and advice specifically for sole traders.
Discover the new look StartupSmart

