By Kathleen Ronayne | AP April 9 at 5:43 PM
LACONIA, N.H. — South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham says his Republican colleagues who don’t want to reauthorize money for the Export-Import Bank have lost their way as conservatives.
Graham, a potential 2016 presidential candidate, spoke Thursday alongside New Hampshire Sen. Kelly Ayotte at a business that has benefited from the federal agency’s financing. The Export-Import bank provides financing for U.S. exports. Its charter is set to expire in June, and many Republicans are now calling for the program to end.
Graham, lead sponsor of legislation to reauthorize the program through 2019, said eliminating that financing option would make it difficult for U.S. businesses to compete globally and would cost jobs.
“If you want to defund this bank and allow China and Europe to have an economic advantage over people in the United States, then I think you’ve lost your way as a conservative,” he said. “I want you to come up here and tell these people why they need to lose their jobs because of your ideological purity.”
Graham toured New Hampshire Ball Bearings during a two-day New Hampshire swing, his third recent visit to the state that hosts the nation’s first presidential primary. He plans to decide by the end of May whether to run for the GOP nomination.
The Export-Import Bank has operated for more than 80 years, but many Republicans now say it is a form of corporate welfare that should end.
Nearly all of Graham’s potential presidential primary opponents oppose reauthorizing the bank, including Senate colleagues Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz and Rand Paul. Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker also oppose continuing the bank.
Graham said the bank directly benefits U.S. businesses such as New Hampshire Ball Bearings and Boeing, which has a base in South Carolina. Eliminating the agency would put these businesses at a competitive disadvantage, as China and many European countries have similar financing programs, Graham said.
 ”I’m not going to unilaterally surrender as a nation and cost good jobs in my state,” he said.
Ayotte will be a sought-after ally for a Republican seeking to perform well in New Hampshire’s primary. She has worked closely with Graham in the Senate and called him one of the strongest voices on national security. She has not endorsed any potential candidates. 
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

