(53713)
Today
Mostly cloudy and windy. Slight chance of an afternoon shower. High 67F. Winds S at 20 to 30 mph..
Tonight
Rain developing after midnight. Thunder possible. Low 54F. Winds S at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 60%.
Updated: April 12, 2015 @ 1:53 pm
Portage Public Library
The Historic
Jan 1
MICHELLE STOCKER — The Capital Times
Supreme Court Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson, right, and Justice Ann Walsh Bradley, left, before Gov. Scott Walker delivers the budget address February. Abrahamson has sued to delay enactment of a constitutional amendment approved by voters Tuesday that would likely result in her ouster as chief justice. 
WISCONSIN SUPREME COURT | WILL ABRAHAMSON REMAIN CHIEF?
Legal experts disagree on merits of chief justice lawsuit
DEE J. HALL  dhall@madison.com, 608-252-6132
7 hrs ago
MICHELLE STOCKER — The Capital Times
Supreme Court Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson, right, and Justice Ann Walsh Bradley, left, before Gov. Scott Walker delivers the budget address February. Abrahamson has sued to delay enactment of a constitutional amendment approved by voters Tuesday that would likely result in her ouster as chief justice. 
Legal observers disagree about whether Wisconsin Supreme Court Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson has a legal right to hold onto that title now that voters have adopted a new method for selecting the chief justice.
Some cite the long-standing principle from 1884 that elected officials do not have an automatic right to stay in office, and that voters can change the terms of service, including “abolish an office or shorten the term, or reduce or take away entirely the salary attached to it.”
But courts also have frowned on measures passed by lawmakers or voters that apply retroactively. That is one of the arguments raised by a lawsuit filed by Abrahamson on Wednesday, hours after passage of a constitutional amendment requiring a majority of the seven justices to choose their own chief.
For 126 years, the job of chief justice has gone to the justice with the most tenure. For the past 19 years, that has been Abrahamson, a liberal who presides over an increasingly conservative — and fractious — court.
Charles Geyh said the amendment and Abrahamson’s legal fight to remain as chief justice pose a novel problem.
“I take some pride in staying on top of issues relating to the administration of courts, but this one has me bumfuzzled,” said Geyh, a law professor at Indiana University specializing in judicial conduct, independence and administration. “Issues in judicial administration tend to be ponderous, long-winded affairs, but the bare-knuckle power politics underlying this effort to remove a chief justice mid-term is unprecedented in my experience.”
Legislative Republicans who voted for the amendment insisted it had nothing to do with ousting Abrahamson, who has long been a target of conservative ire. Those public statements are now part of Abrahamson’s case arguing against immediate enactment of the amendment, which passed with 53 percent of the vote in Tuesday’s election.
The lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court in Madison asks the court to order that the amendment take effect in 2019, at the end of Abrahamson’s current 10-year term, or if she were to leave office early.
On Thursday, U.S. District Judge James Peterson declined a request by the 81-year-old chief justice to immediately halt implementation, noting that administrative steps required to enact the amendment will take until at least April 29. A court hearing has been scheduled for April 21.
Abrahamson’s lawsuit alleges that changing the method of selection in the middle of her term amounts to retroactive application of the provision. Among the cases the lawsuit cites is a 2012 U.S. Supreme Court decision that exempted a Greek immigrant from deportation under a federal law passed in 1996 — two years after the defendant committed the crime that put him at risk for removal from the country.
In that case, the high court said it was “guided by the deeply rooted presumption against retroactive legislation.”
The lawsuit was filed by Robert Peck of the Center for Constitutional Litigation law firm in Washington, D.C. Peck sits on the board of directors of Justice at Stake, a Washington, D.C., advocacy group that had opposed the amendment but is not involved in the lawsuit.
Peck said in an interview that courts have consistently found that such measures only apply to future actions unless otherwise specified. Wisconsin’s constitutional amendment has no provision making it retroactive.
The lawsuit also argues that the Wisconsin Constitution, as written when Abrahamson was re-elected in 2009, gave her a “protectable and vested property interest in her employment in that office.”
Some legal experts are highly skeptical of that argument. Professor Arthur Hellman, a professor of constitutional law at the University of Pittsburgh, called the argument “pretty preposterous.”
He cited a seminal 1884 decision by the Minnesota Supreme Court that rejected a claim by the treasurer of Olmsted County. The treasurer had sought to force continued payment of his $1,500-a-year salary even after voters adopted a constitutional amendment cutting short his term.
That court found “public officers have no proprietary interest in their offices, or any right of property in the prospective compensation attached thereto.” The Minnesota justices went on to say that “public offices, in theory, at least, are held and exercised for the benefit of the public and not for the incumbent.”
Said Hellman, “The voters have to be able to do this type of thing in a democratic system. The people are supreme.”
Rick Esenberg of the conservative Wisconsin Institute for Law and Liberty called the lawsuit a “longshot.”
“I am not sure that it makes sense to say that allowing the justices to elect a chief after the effective date of the amendment is applying the law ‘retroactively,’ ” Esenberg said.
He added that “it simply can’t be that, having elected someone, the public can’t change the law — particularly the constitution — in a way that diminishes that person’s power or might even remove her from office.”
Abrahamson argues in her lawsuit that she and other voters had a reasonable expectation that she would continue as chief justice when she was re-elected in 2009. She also argues that voters in Tuesday’s election were told by supporters of the amendment that it was not aimed at removing her from leadership.
“The view of voters, based on what they were told as they go to the polls, constitutes an important factor in the ‘proper interpretation of a constitutional amendment,’ ” the lawsuit argues, quoting from the Wisconsin Supreme Court’s unanimous decision in August upholding the state’s domestic partner registry.
The lawsuit also cites two cases, one from Nevada and the other from Louisiana, in which judges successfully sued to stay in office after constitutional amendments were passed that would shorten their terms.
Abrahamson’s lawsuit argues that “nothing in the language of the amendment, or even its explanation to voters, indicates that it would affect the incumbent chief justice during her current term of office or abridge the results of the 2009 election.”
Unlike the Nevada and Louisiana cases, the amendment does not remove Abrahamson — who is likely to lose an election of her peers to remain as chief justice — from office.
“She can continue the rest of her term as a justice, the position to which she was elected,” Hellman said.
Related
Tags
Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion
Notifications from this discussion will be disabled.
Cancel
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

