'Stand Up 4 Transportation'
Antonio Perez, Chicago Tribune
U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski talks to colleagues about the need for long-term federal funding for transportation during a "Stand Up 4 Transportation" news conference at Union Station on April 9, 2015.
U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski talks to colleagues about the need for long-term federal funding for transportation during a "Stand Up 4 Transportation" news conference at Union Station on April 9, 2015. (Antonio Perez, Chicago Tribune)
The leaders of Chicago-area public transit agencies and Illinois elected officials from both political parties rallied Thursday for Congress to pass a robust, long-term federal spending plan to rebuild rail infrastructure used by commuter and intercity trains, update bus fleets and rehab roads and bridges.
PuchU2
The "Stand Up 4 Transportation'' event at Union Station was among many similar activities held across the nation to urge the federal government to provide sustainable funding.
"The message to Congress is 'Man up,'" U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., told a crowd of transit workers and supporters as well as Amtrak and Metra passengers who were passing through the West Loop train terminal's Great Hall.
The Obama administration has proposed spending $478 billion on transportation over the next six years — a 45 percent increase over current levels.
Illinois would receive almost $1.7 billion in fiscal 2016 in federal highway aid, up from nearly $1.4 billion currently, according to the U.S. Department of Transportation. The federal allocation to the state for mass transit would jump to almost $807 million from about $523 million.
At the same time that elected officials from Illinois are calling on Congress to replace at higher levels federal transportation capital-improvement funding legislation that is set to expire May 31, Illinois is on the verge of slashing operational subsidies to transit agencies in the state.
Gov. Bruce Rauner has proposed cutting almost $170 million from Chicago-area mass transit, including a roughly $130 million annual reduction to the CTA , a decrease of almost $21 million to Metra, a $10 million cut to Pace and eliminating the $8.5 million that the state provides to ADA paratransit services.
Addressing the audience about efforts at the CTA to cut costs and eliminate duplicative services, CTA President Forrest Claypool said, "They say that the Lord helps those who help themselves.''
Claypool's words seemed to hang in the air, highlighting the disconnect between Illinois' push for more federal transportation investment, while the state appears headed toward its own funding cutbacks.

