NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia —  The prime minister of Libya ’s internationally recognized government survived an assassination attempt Tuesday after facing hostile questioning inside Parliament and demands for his resignation from armed protesters outside.
The mayhem and violence broke out amid growing signs of divisions in the faction backing the government of Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thinni against a rival faction that has taken over the capital, Tripoli. If the conflicts and discord further threaten the stability of Mr. Thinni’s government, the result could cripple the United Nations-brokered talks aimed at bringing the two factions together and could further compound the chaos that has engulfed Libya since the fall of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in 2011.
It was unclear who was responsible for the assassination attempt. Armed forces allied with the government, which is based in Tobruk and Bayda, have been battling Islamist militants from Benghazi and Dernah. Last winter, militants hostile to the government set off a car bomb at the hotel used as a meeting place for Parliament.
But Mr. Thinni, a former army general but now a civilian politician, has also been under growing internal pressure for several months from supporters of Gen. Khalifa Hifter , the military leader who effectively dominates the Tobruk-Bayda government. The two men appear, in some sense, to be rivals for power in their faction. But General Hifter controls the government’s only military or security force, and many Libyans who support the faction regard him as its true leader.
Western diplomats who know General Hifter and Mr. Thinni have said that they do not talk, and as long ago as January, members of Parliament close to General Hifter spoke openly of a desire to ensure that he did not report to Mr. Thinni, or even to force Mr. Thinni from office.
More recently, a satellite television network that has supported General Hifter has aired accusations against Mr. Thinni that involve loose spending or financial mismanagement. And on Tuesday, he appeared before Parliament in Tobruk to face sharp questioning about the effectiveness of his government.
Armed demonstrators demanding his resignation gathered outside at the same time. At one point, a car was set on fire, according to news reports, forcing Parliament to shut down.
Then, as Mr. Thinni left to return to his office in Bayda, assailants fired shots at his car and wounded one of his bodyguards, according to an aide who was with him and news reports. “Thank God, we managed to escape,” Mr. Thinni told the satellite news network Al Arabiya.
Col. Ahmad Muhee, a security adviser who was with Mr. Thinni, said he had tried to call General Hifter for protection against the protesters.
“We tried to call Khalifa Hifter, but he never answered us, and none of the people around him answered us,” Colonel Muhee said.
Suliman Ali Zway contributed reporting from Tripoli, Libya.
Loading...


Libyan Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thinni survives assassination attempt
Libyan Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thinni survives assassination attempt
Thinni has faced increasing criticism for running an ineffective rump state in the east.
Updated: May 27, 2015 6:07 am
Libya’s internationally recognised prime minister, Abdullah al-Thinni, said on Tuesday he had survived an assassination attempt by gunmen who opened fire as he was leaving a session of the anarchic country’s elected parliament.
The incident highlighted the unravelling of state authority in the North African country in which two governments and parliaments allied to armed factions are fighting for control four years after rebels overthrew Muammar Gaddafi.
Thinni has faced increasing criticism for running an ineffective rump state in the east since losing the capital Tripoli in the west to a rival faction that now controls ministries and key state bodies based there.
Related
Thinni told pan-Arab news channel al-Arabiya that after he left parliament in the town of Tobruk and drove off, gunmen in several cars followed his entourage and opened fire.
“We were surprised by a lot of bullets… Thank God, we managed to escape,” Thinni said, adding that one bodyguard had been wounded.
He did not elaborate but his cabinet said in a statement the gunmen had been “paid criminals” who had previously tried storming parliament.
Parliament speaker Aqila Saleh had asked Thinni to leave the assembly for his safety after protesters opposed to his government gathered outside the naval base where the parliament meets, two lawmakers told Reuters.
A burning car could be seen outside the gated venue, lawmakers said. The session resumed after Thinni’s departure. Thinni works out of Bayda, near Tobruk to the west.
It was the latest disruption in a tumultuous year for the House of Representatives, which has like Thinni struggled to stamp its authority over an increasingly fragmented country.
Thinni’s government had originally planned to set up parliament in the main eastern city of Benghazi but relocated to Tobruk near the Egyptian border after Benghazi turned into a battleground between the government and Islamist militants.
Parliament initially opened in a Tobruk hotel but moved to the naval base after a suicide bomber detonated a car in front of the hotel in December.
The House of Representatives is being challenged by a Tripoli-based assembly known as General National Congress (GNC) that was set up after a rival faction seized the capital in August.
The GNC had been the country’s previous assembly whose mandate had ended with the election of the House of Representatives but was reinstated by the new Tripoli rulers as the country split into two administrations.
Islamic State militants have exploited a security vacuum as the two governments fight each other on several fronts without either side gaining the upper hand.
First Published on: May 27, 2015 5:41 am
Do you like this story

