NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia —  The prime minister of Libya ’s internationally recognized government survived an assassination attempt Tuesday after facing hostile questioning inside Parliament and demands for his resignation from armed protesters outside.
The mayhem and violence broke out amid growing signs of divisions in the faction backing the government of Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thinni against a rival faction that has taken over the capital, Tripoli. If the conflicts and discord further threaten the stability of Mr. Thinni’s government, the result could cripple the United Nations-brokered talks aimed at bringing the two factions together and could further compound the chaos that has engulfed Libya since the fall of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in 2011.
It was unclear who was responsible for the assassination attempt. Armed forces allied with the government, which is based in Tobruk and Bayda, have been battling Islamist militants from Benghazi and Dernah. Last winter, militants hostile to the government set off a car bomb at the hotel used as a meeting place for Parliament.
But Mr. Thinni, a former army general but now a civilian politician, has also been under growing internal pressure for several months from supporters of Gen. Khalifa Hifter , the military leader who effectively dominates the Tobruk-Bayda government. The two men appear, in some sense, to be rivals for power in their faction. But General Hifter controls the government’s only military or security force, and many Libyans who support the faction regard him as its true leader.
Western diplomats who know General Hifter and Mr. Thinni have said that they do not talk, and as long ago as January, members of Parliament close to General Hifter spoke openly of a desire to ensure that he did not report to Mr. Thinni, or even to force Mr. Thinni from office.
More recently, a satellite television network that has supported General Hifter has aired accusations against Mr. Thinni that involve loose spending or financial mismanagement. And on Tuesday, he appeared before Parliament in Tobruk to face sharp questioning about the effectiveness of his government.
Armed demonstrators demanding his resignation gathered outside at the same time. At one point, a car was set on fire, according to news reports, forcing Parliament to shut down.
Then, as Mr. Thinni left to return to his office in Bayda, assailants fired shots at his car and wounded one of his bodyguards, according to an aide who was with him and news reports. “Thank God, we managed to escape,” Mr. Thinni told the satellite news network Al Arabiya.
Col. Ahmad Muhee, a security adviser who was with Mr. Thinni, said he had tried to call General Hifter for protection against the protesters.
“We tried to call Khalifa Hifter, but he never answered us, and none of the people around him answered us,” Colonel Muhee said.
Suliman Ali Zway contributed reporting from Tripoli, Libya.
Loading...


Latest News
By Rami Musa, Associated Press
May 26, 2015
Alexander Zemlianichenko/AP/File
View Caption
Benghazi, Libya — Gunmen tried to assassinate Libya's internationally recognized prime minister on his way to the airport in the eastern city of Tobruk on Tuesday, a spokesman for his government said.
Arish Said, head of the government's media department, said that Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thinni's motorcade was attacked and one of his guards was lightly wounded but that there were no fatalities.
"They managed to escape," Mr. Said said.
Prior to the attack, he said armed men who had been protesting outside a session of the Tobruk government's House of Representatives tried to storm the building, firing shots into the air and demanding Mr. al-Thinni be removed from office.
The session was postponed until next week before the attempted assassination.
Nearly four years after the ouster of longtime dictator Moammar Gadhafi, Libya is consumed by chaos. The country split is between an elected parliament and weak government, and a rival government and parliament in Tripoli set up by the Islamist-linked militias that took control the capital, forcing the government to relocate to the far eastern cities of Tobruk and Bayda.
The turmoil has enabled the rise of an active Islamic State branch, which now controls at least two cities along the country's coastline.
Before the assassination attempt, a leader from Tobruk's dominant Obiedi tribe, Faraj Abu Alkhatabia, threatened al-Thanni on private broadcaster Libya Awalan.
"This prime minister must resign, if he doesn't I will smash his head," he said, adding that "either he leaves or we won't let the house of representatives stay in Tobruk."
A national security adviser to the Tobruk government, who declined to comment for fear of retribution, linked the threat to powerful Tobruk businessman and oil magnate Hassan Tatanaki, a member of the same tribe who owns the Libya Awalan television station.
"This morning the prime minster spoke with the head of the house of representatives regarding the pressure applied by Libyan tycoon Tatanaki who wishes to be appointed foreign minister." Mr. Tatanaki's office could not be immediately reached for comment.
Earlier Tuesday, Human Rights Watch said civilians, including foreign nationals, are trapped in several neighborhoods in Libya's embattled eastern city of Benghazi, urging fighters there to let them depart without conditions.
In a statement, the US-based group says militias and army units have surrounded the downtown areas, where several hundred people are reportedly trapped and not allowed to leave. Some of those trapped were Syrians, Palestinians, and Asian, and African nationals.
Middle East and North Africa director Sarah Leah Whitson said that all forces involved must take all feasible precautions to minimize harm to civilians and civilian property, and that the Libyan army and militias must allow civilians safe passage and facilitate access to badly needed aid.
Related Stories
Popular Now
Inspired? Here are some ways to make a difference on this issue.
Get the Monitor stories you care about delivered to your inbox.
Daily
Your name:

