Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Most eyes on LeBron, Cavs but some are watching Manziel
Wendel on the Web is WKYC reporter/producer Kim Wendel's "take" and commentary on the news of the day
Post to Facebook
Most eyes on LeBron, Cavs but some are watching Manziel Wendel on the Web is WKYC reporter/producer Kim Wendel's "take" and commentary on the news of the day Check out this story on WKYC.com: http://on.wkyc.com/1HJ7BuX
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
1
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Most eyes on LeBron, Cavs but some are watching Manziel
Kim Wendel 4:05 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
Wendel on the Web is WKYC reporter/producer Kim Wendel's "take" and commentary on the news of the day
Johnny Manziel
As the Cleveland Cavaliers continue their march to the NBA Finals -- tonight may seal the deal with a sweep of the Atlanta Hawks - you would think all eyes are on the Cavs. And most of them are.
But some were at the Cleveland Browns training camp  today as Johnny Manziel took the field in front of reporters for the first time since his stint in rehab.
But first, the Cavs.
LeBron James and the Cavs will grace one of the three regional covers of Sports Illustrated later this week. Their performance has been amazing despite the injuries to Kevin Love and Kyrie Irving. Even LeBron James seemed almost super-human in his performance Sunday night.
And then the not totally unexpected SI cover. Does that bring with it the dreaded SI cover curse? Maybe. Maybe not. It's LBJ's 24th cover the third since he decided to return to Cleveland last July.
Curse? Probably not. ESPN's BPI believes there's a 71 percent chance that tonight's game will go to the Cavs and a trip to the NBA Finals.
As Cleveland awaits, another Cleveland sports team took some of the spotlight today. The Browns.
The Associated Press reports that former Heisman Trophy winner Johnny Manziel took the field today with a shorter haircut and a serious game-face on.
Wendel on the Web
 (Photo: WKYC)
As most of the world already knows, Manziel spent 10 weeks at Caron Addiction Treatment Center in Pennsylvania for an unspecified issue before being discharged on April 10.
And in a move to take him out of the line of temptation (apparently), he moved out of his apartment at The 9 in downtown Cleveland and into a place in a golf community in a west side suburb of Cleveland.
Manziel has also attended a couple of the Cavs' home games during the playoffs.
Browns coach Mike Pettine and several of Manziel's teammates have praised his re-commitment following a first year in which he played poorly in two starts. He'll open camp as Cleveland's No. 2 quarterback behind Josh McCown.
Now, if you think that Manziel has a chance to redevelop the greatness he had when the Browns drafted him, then maybe some of the Cavs' winning ways will rub off on him. I like McCown but the Browns need to play the best QB they have. The preseason isn't that far off so we will see.
It was only last July that LBJ announced that he was "coming home." In less than 10 months, he's proven that he wants to bring Cleveland a winner. Let's hope Manziel has the same kind of fervor.
Follow WKYC's Kim Wendel on Twitter @KimWendel
Read or Share this story: http://on.wkyc.com/1HJ7BuX
TOP VIDEOS

