Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Mike Pelfrey leads Twins past Red Sox 2-1
Mike Pelfrey was sharp for seven innings, Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki hit back-to-back RBI doubles in the first inning, and the Minnesota Twins held on to beat the Boston Red Sox 2-1 on Tuesday night.
Post to Facebook
Mike Pelfrey leads Twins past Red Sox 2-1 Mike Pelfrey was sharp for seven innings, Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki hit back-to-back RBI doubles in the first inning, and the Minnesota Twins held on to beat the Boston Red Sox 2-1 on Tuesday night. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvpJ5U
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Mike Pelfrey leads Twins past Red Sox 2-1
AP 1:15 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
Twins starting pitcher Mike Pelfrey delivers a pitch in the first inning.
(Photo: Jesse Johnson, USA TODAY Sports)
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — When Mike Pelfrey saw activity in the Minnesota Twins' bullpen during the fifth inning, he knew it was time to bear down.
Pelfrey was sharp for seven innings, Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki hit back-to-back RBI doubles in the first, and the Twins held on to beat the Boston Red Sox 2-1 on Tuesday night.
After rain delayed the game's first pitch for 1 hour, 21 minutes, Minnesota jumped on Clay Buchholz (2-6) for three doubles and two runs in the first.
That was enough support for Pelfrey (4-1), who retired the last seven batters he faced and lowered his ERA to 2.77. Pelfrey allowed five hits and struck out four to reward manager Paul Molitor for sticking with him.
"I don't think anybody likes seeing the bullpen going, especially not in the fifth," Pelfrey said. "But it worked out."
Glen Perkins got Hanley Ramirez to fly out to right field with the bases loaded to end the eighth.
"It got a little dicey there," Molitor said.
The All-Star left-hander stayed in and worked a perfect ninth for his 17th save in as many chances.
Mike Napoli's single in the second scored David Ortiz for Boston's lone run. The Red Sox have scored 14 runs in their last eight road games.
"I would like to think our approach can be a little more concerted, a little bit more concentrated," Boston manager John Farrell said. "You never want to take away credit from a guy who has thrown the ball well this year in Pelfrey, but still I think we're capable of more than what we showed here tonight."
After Pelfrey struck out Ramirez in the fourth, Ramirez whacked the bench in the dugout with his bat. In the sixth, half of Ramirez's bat went flying into the stands after it broke on a soft liner to shortstop.
Buchholz settled down after the first and lasted 7 1-3 innings to notch Boston's 10th quality start in 13 games.
The Twins have won 18 of their last 24 games and 11 of 13 at home. Their 17 wins in May are the most in the American League and most for the month of May since they won 16 in 2011.
After injuries and ineffectiveness nearly cost Pelfrey a spot in the rotation out of spring training, the right-hander has been a big part of Minnesota's turnaround. Tuesday's start showed that Pelfrey, like the Twins, can pull through, even if things aren't going his way early.
"Like a lot of guys have been doing in that rotation, they find another gear," Molitor said.
ORTIZ DROPPED TO 5TH
Ortiz doubled in the first to end an 0-for-16 slump. Farrell dropped Ortiz to fifth in the batter order, the lowest spot in the lineup he's hit since May 6, 2012. Ramirez was moved up to the fourth spot and Pablo Sandoval hit third.
"Those guys have every ability to be an elite three guys in the lineup, and we're trying to gain a little bit more production and consistency," Farrell said.
FORE!
With the 2016 Ryder Cup being held at Hazeltine National Golf Club, the Ryder Cup trophy was on display inside the Twins' clubhouse before the game. Several players, including 1B Joe Mauer, took pictures with it.
CF Aaron Hicks, a top amateur golfer in California before picking baseball, was a little more hesitant, choosing instead to admire the trophy from a distance.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Twins: In his second rehab outing at Class AAA Rochester as he recovers from a shoulder injury, reliever Casey Fien needed just 10 pitches to get through a scoreless inning.
UP NEXT
Both teams will be back on the field at noon on Wednesday to wrap up the three-game series. Twins RHP Phil Hughes (3-4, 4.50) will be trying for his third straight quality start. RHP Rick Porcello (4-3, 5.07) goes for Boston and is 5-1 with a 2.96 ERA in his last eight starts at Minnesota.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


Twins continue to roll at home with win over Red Sox
Twins continue to roll at home with win over Red Sox
MINNEAPOLIS -- Another win, another smoky postgame clubhouse for the Minnesota Twins. One of baseball's great stories over the first seven weeks of the season kept it going Tuesday in a 2-1 win over the Boston Red Sox at soggy Target Field.
For the Twins, who celebrate each victory with a dance and laser-light show in the clubhouse, the routine has become a bit of a habit; the win was Minnesota's fourth straight and sixth in its last seven games and improved the Twins to a major-league best 16-6 at home this season. Combined with Kansas City's loss to the New York Yankees earlier in the evening, the Twins are one game back of the Royals for first place in the American League Central Division race with the month of May winding to a close this weekend.
Every night, it's been a new hero for the Twins. On Tuesday, it was right-hander Mike Pelfrey who earned his fourth victory after tossing seven innings of one-run ball. Pelfrey wasn't lights out, but got better as the game wore on, retiring the Red Sox in order on just six pitches in his seventh and final inning of work.
Pelfrey allowed just the one run on five hits and a walk and will become just the third Twins starter in the last 20 years to enter the month of June with an ERA under 3.00 (at least five starts).
"There was a time when I didn't think I was going to get through five (innings)," Pelfrey said. "I turn around and there are people warming up out there. But luckily (Twins manager Paul Molitor) kept me in and I did a good job with my offspeed pitches the last two innings."
Pelfrey didn't have a ton of run support Tuesday, thanks to another stellar outing from Red Sox righty Clay Buchholz, who surrendered a pair of early runs then got locked in. For Buchholz, it was another tough-luck loss, allowing just two runs on seven hits and a walk in 7 1/3 innings of work. Buchholz has now allowed two runs or less and lasted at least 7 1/3 innings in each of his last three starts. The Red Sox have provided a combined three runs of support in those games, all losses.
"That happens," Buchholz said. "I've gotten a lot of wins when I've given up four, five, six runs and the team has found a way to come back. It will turn around."
The Twins strung together three doubles in the first inning to take an early 2-0 lead. Second baseman Brian Dozier led off the game with a two-base hit into the left-field corner and scored three batters later on a double by third baseman Trevor Plouffe. Catcher Kurt Suzuki followed with a double of his own, knocking in Plouffe.
"It's a situation where you don't try and get too big," Plouffe said. "A base hit will do the job. He threw that first pitch cutter and I wanted to stay aggressive to the fastball. He tried to come in with a two-seamer but left it out over the plate."
Boston got a run back in the next half inning after some shaky outfield defense by the Twins. Designated hitter David Ortiz hit a ball that appeared catchable for Twins left fielder Eduardo Escobar. But instead of tracking the ball to the wall, Escobar turned and let it bounce off the wall as Ortiz cruised into second with a one-out double.
First baseman Mike Napoli followed with a bloop single to center, scoring Ortiz to make it 2-1.
"Mike was laboring there a bit in the second," Molitor said. "It was one of those games where you look at his pitches and wonder how far it's going to go. But like a lot of guys have been doing in that rotation, he found another gear."
The Twins had the bases loaded with one out in the fourth against Buchholz and runners on the corners with two away in the fifth, but could not extend their lead.
Boston loaded the bases with two outs in the eighth against the Twins' bullpen, but closer Glen Perkins entered and got Red Sox left fielder Hanley Ramirez to line out to right field. Perkins followed with a perfect ninth for his league-leading 17th save.
"Not much to get going," Red Sox manager John Farrell said of his club's offensive attack. "A lot of early outs, a couple of ground ball double plays; I'd like to think our approach can be a little more concerted, a little bit more concentrated. I think we're capable of a lot more than we showed tonight."
NOTES: The start of the game was delayed 81 minutes due to inclement weather in the Twin Cities. It was the first delayed game of the season at Target Field. ... Red Sox DH David Ortiz batted fifth for the first time this season and first time since May 6, 2012. ... Twins 1B Joe Mauer grounded into his ninth double play of the season. He had 12 all of last season and seven in 2013. ... The Red Sox and Twins will play the final game of a three-game series at Target Field on Wednesday. Boston's right-hander Rick Porcello (4-3, 5.07 ERA) will oppose Minnesota righty Phil Hughes (3-4, 4.50 ERA).
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

