Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Mike Pelfrey leads Twins past Red Sox 2-1
Mike Pelfrey was sharp for seven innings, Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki hit back-to-back RBI doubles in the first inning, and the Minnesota Twins held on to beat the Boston Red Sox 2-1 on Tuesday night.
Post to Facebook
Mike Pelfrey leads Twins past Red Sox 2-1 Mike Pelfrey was sharp for seven innings, Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki hit back-to-back RBI doubles in the first inning, and the Minnesota Twins held on to beat the Boston Red Sox 2-1 on Tuesday night. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvpJ5U
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Mike Pelfrey leads Twins past Red Sox 2-1
AP 1:15 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
Twins starting pitcher Mike Pelfrey delivers a pitch in the first inning.
(Photo: Jesse Johnson, USA TODAY Sports)
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — When Mike Pelfrey saw activity in the Minnesota Twins' bullpen during the fifth inning, he knew it was time to bear down.
Pelfrey was sharp for seven innings, Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki hit back-to-back RBI doubles in the first, and the Twins held on to beat the Boston Red Sox 2-1 on Tuesday night.
After rain delayed the game's first pitch for 1 hour, 21 minutes, Minnesota jumped on Clay Buchholz (2-6) for three doubles and two runs in the first.
That was enough support for Pelfrey (4-1), who retired the last seven batters he faced and lowered his ERA to 2.77. Pelfrey allowed five hits and struck out four to reward manager Paul Molitor for sticking with him.
"I don't think anybody likes seeing the bullpen going, especially not in the fifth," Pelfrey said. "But it worked out."
Glen Perkins got Hanley Ramirez to fly out to right field with the bases loaded to end the eighth.
"It got a little dicey there," Molitor said.
The All-Star left-hander stayed in and worked a perfect ninth for his 17th save in as many chances.
Mike Napoli's single in the second scored David Ortiz for Boston's lone run. The Red Sox have scored 14 runs in their last eight road games.
"I would like to think our approach can be a little more concerted, a little bit more concentrated," Boston manager John Farrell said. "You never want to take away credit from a guy who has thrown the ball well this year in Pelfrey, but still I think we're capable of more than what we showed here tonight."
After Pelfrey struck out Ramirez in the fourth, Ramirez whacked the bench in the dugout with his bat. In the sixth, half of Ramirez's bat went flying into the stands after it broke on a soft liner to shortstop.
Buchholz settled down after the first and lasted 7 1-3 innings to notch Boston's 10th quality start in 13 games.
The Twins have won 18 of their last 24 games and 11 of 13 at home. Their 17 wins in May are the most in the American League and most for the month of May since they won 16 in 2011.
After injuries and ineffectiveness nearly cost Pelfrey a spot in the rotation out of spring training, the right-hander has been a big part of Minnesota's turnaround. Tuesday's start showed that Pelfrey, like the Twins, can pull through, even if things aren't going his way early.
"Like a lot of guys have been doing in that rotation, they find another gear," Molitor said.
ORTIZ DROPPED TO 5TH
Ortiz doubled in the first to end an 0-for-16 slump. Farrell dropped Ortiz to fifth in the batter order, the lowest spot in the lineup he's hit since May 6, 2012. Ramirez was moved up to the fourth spot and Pablo Sandoval hit third.
"Those guys have every ability to be an elite three guys in the lineup, and we're trying to gain a little bit more production and consistency," Farrell said.
FORE!
With the 2016 Ryder Cup being held at Hazeltine National Golf Club, the Ryder Cup trophy was on display inside the Twins' clubhouse before the game. Several players, including 1B Joe Mauer, took pictures with it.
CF Aaron Hicks, a top amateur golfer in California before picking baseball, was a little more hesitant, choosing instead to admire the trophy from a distance.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Twins: In his second rehab outing at Class AAA Rochester as he recovers from a shoulder injury, reliever Casey Fien needed just 10 pitches to get through a scoreless inning.
UP NEXT
Both teams will be back on the field at noon on Wednesday to wrap up the three-game series. Twins RHP Phil Hughes (3-4, 4.50) will be trying for his third straight quality start. RHP Rick Porcello (4-3, 5.07) goes for Boston and is 5-1 with a 2.96 ERA in his last eight starts at Minnesota.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


Jonh Farrell: Starter must mix it up
Photo by: 
AP photo
BRIGHT SPOT: Rusney Castillo makes a diving catch in the eighth inning of the Red Sox’ loss to the Twins last night in Minneapolis.
1
MINNEAPOLIS — The meeting lasted longer than Joe Kelly did.
One day after getting rocked for seven runs in 12⁄3 innings against the Minnesota Twins, Kelly was called into manager John Farrell’s office to review what went wrong. And while the Red Sox appear to have decided to keep Kelly in the rotation, Farrell and pitching coach Carl Willis delivered a clear message to the struggling right-hander in a closed-door session that went on for nearly 20 minutes.
To be effective, Kelly must use his curveball more often.
“I contend and strongly believe that his curveball is a major weapon that’s got to be used in his pitch mix,” Farrell said, pointing to a May 21 start against the Texas Rangers in which Kelly offset his blazing fastball with an effective breaking pitch. “He made a very tangible adjustment after three innings of work (in that start) when he went to his curveball more than his slider and slowed them down and had some quick and efficient innings. It’s part of the education process of Joe as a pitcher, what makes him most effective.”
To be fair, Kelly didn’t have much chance to establish his offspeed pitches against the Twins, a fastball-hitting team that jumped on fastballs early in counts. In fact, Kelly threw only 52 pitches to 14 batters, nine of whom reached base.
In those cases, Farrell suggested Kelly might have to trust his curveball earlier in the game rather than later. According to Pitchf/X data, Kelly threw only one curveball against the Twins, compared to nine sliders, two changeups and 40 fastballs, and after the game, rookie catcher Blake Swihart took the blame for not having a better read on the effectiveness of Kelly’s stuff.
“He walks into a team that is confident. They’ve proven they’re going to come out and strike early,” Farrell said. “He really never had a chance to settle in or slow them down at all. They dictated the tempo (Monday) rather than the reverse of that. The one thing that we continually try to point out to Joe is he’s learning himself as a pitcher and what makes him most effective. (Monday) there were a number of balls that leaked back to the middle of the plate that he paid for.”
Kelly is scheduled to pitch Saturday night in Texas. But with a 6.24 ERA in nine starts and options that would allow him to be sent to the minors without being exposed to waivers, it would seem Kelly has a shorter leash than ever.
With knuckleballer Steven Wright already in the rotation and right-hander Justin Masterson still on the disabled list because of shoulder tendinitis, the top options to take Kelly’s place are lefty prospects Eddie Rodriguez and Brian Johnson, both of whom are at Triple-A Pawtucket.
Rusney’s a catch
One bright spot from the Red Sox’ 2-1 loss to the Twins: Right fielder Rusney Castillo made a pair of sparkling diving catches that stole hits from Kurt Suzuki in the sixth and eighth innings. . . .
Backup catcher Sandy Leon notched a pair of singles, his first multi-hit game since he recorded three hits April 13 against Washington. . . .
The Red Sox have scored 14 runs in their last eight road games, during which they have gone 3-5.
Eye on Cueto
Good news for the Cincinnati Reds — and any team that might have interest in trading for ace Johnny Cueto, including the Red Sox: An MRI exam revealed no tears or structural damage to his elbow, according to reports out of Cincinnati.
Cueto reportedly is expected to play catch today, at which point the Reds will have a better idea of when he might return to their rotation.
Eligible for free agency after the season, the right-hander is 3-4 with a 3.03 ERA in nine starts. The Reds were 18-26, 101⁄2 games out of first place in the NL Central, entering play last night. It’s believed they might be compelled to trade Cueto but probably not until after they host the All-Star Game in July.
Left seems right
Farrell said he “wouldn’t be surprised” if switch-hitting third baseman Pablo Sandoval continues to hit exclusively from the left side of the plate, even against left-handed pitchers, although he said it ultimately will be “an in-game decision” and might vary depending on the situation.
Two weeks ago, Sandoval said he wasn’t thinking about ditching switch-hitting, even though he’s only 2-for-41 from the right side of the plate. But he told WEEI last night that he might reconsider because he’s still dealing with soreness in his left knee after being hit by a pitch last week.
On Sunday, Sandoval batted left-handed against Angels lefty reliever Cesar Ramos and got a hit. He did it again last night in the eighth inning.
A nod to Nap
A week ago, first baseman Mike Napoli was stuck in the worst slump of his career, a six-week slog that left him so far from the .200 mark that he could barely even see it.
Now, he’s the reigning AL Player of the Week.
In baseball, your fortunes can change that quickly. Napoli was recognized for a six-game stretch in which he was 9-for-21 (.429) with five homers, 10 RBI and six runs scored against the Rangers and Angels, his former teams.
“No one likes hitting .150 for a month and a half,” said Napoli, who credited a video session with second baseman Dustin Pedroia for his turnaround. “It was frustrating. But for me, the frustration was coming because I felt so good. I’m healthy. I’m energized. But I feel good now, figured something out to where if I do get in a rut, I know where to get back to. I’m just going to try to maintain this feeling.”
More On:
© Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.

