Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Mike Pelfrey leads Twins past Red Sox 2-1
Mike Pelfrey was sharp for seven innings, Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki hit back-to-back RBI doubles in the first inning, and the Minnesota Twins held on to beat the Boston Red Sox 2-1 on Tuesday night.
Post to Facebook
Mike Pelfrey leads Twins past Red Sox 2-1 Mike Pelfrey was sharp for seven innings, Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki hit back-to-back RBI doubles in the first inning, and the Minnesota Twins held on to beat the Boston Red Sox 2-1 on Tuesday night. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvpJ5U
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Mike Pelfrey leads Twins past Red Sox 2-1
AP 1:15 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
Twins starting pitcher Mike Pelfrey delivers a pitch in the first inning.
(Photo: Jesse Johnson, USA TODAY Sports)
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — When Mike Pelfrey saw activity in the Minnesota Twins' bullpen during the fifth inning, he knew it was time to bear down.
Pelfrey was sharp for seven innings, Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki hit back-to-back RBI doubles in the first, and the Twins held on to beat the Boston Red Sox 2-1 on Tuesday night.
After rain delayed the game's first pitch for 1 hour, 21 minutes, Minnesota jumped on Clay Buchholz (2-6) for three doubles and two runs in the first.
That was enough support for Pelfrey (4-1), who retired the last seven batters he faced and lowered his ERA to 2.77. Pelfrey allowed five hits and struck out four to reward manager Paul Molitor for sticking with him.
"I don't think anybody likes seeing the bullpen going, especially not in the fifth," Pelfrey said. "But it worked out."
Glen Perkins got Hanley Ramirez to fly out to right field with the bases loaded to end the eighth.
"It got a little dicey there," Molitor said.
The All-Star left-hander stayed in and worked a perfect ninth for his 17th save in as many chances.
Mike Napoli's single in the second scored David Ortiz for Boston's lone run. The Red Sox have scored 14 runs in their last eight road games.
"I would like to think our approach can be a little more concerted, a little bit more concentrated," Boston manager John Farrell said. "You never want to take away credit from a guy who has thrown the ball well this year in Pelfrey, but still I think we're capable of more than what we showed here tonight."
After Pelfrey struck out Ramirez in the fourth, Ramirez whacked the bench in the dugout with his bat. In the sixth, half of Ramirez's bat went flying into the stands after it broke on a soft liner to shortstop.
Buchholz settled down after the first and lasted 7 1-3 innings to notch Boston's 10th quality start in 13 games.
The Twins have won 18 of their last 24 games and 11 of 13 at home. Their 17 wins in May are the most in the American League and most for the month of May since they won 16 in 2011.
After injuries and ineffectiveness nearly cost Pelfrey a spot in the rotation out of spring training, the right-hander has been a big part of Minnesota's turnaround. Tuesday's start showed that Pelfrey, like the Twins, can pull through, even if things aren't going his way early.
"Like a lot of guys have been doing in that rotation, they find another gear," Molitor said.
ORTIZ DROPPED TO 5TH
Ortiz doubled in the first to end an 0-for-16 slump. Farrell dropped Ortiz to fifth in the batter order, the lowest spot in the lineup he's hit since May 6, 2012. Ramirez was moved up to the fourth spot and Pablo Sandoval hit third.
"Those guys have every ability to be an elite three guys in the lineup, and we're trying to gain a little bit more production and consistency," Farrell said.
FORE!
With the 2016 Ryder Cup being held at Hazeltine National Golf Club, the Ryder Cup trophy was on display inside the Twins' clubhouse before the game. Several players, including 1B Joe Mauer, took pictures with it.
CF Aaron Hicks, a top amateur golfer in California before picking baseball, was a little more hesitant, choosing instead to admire the trophy from a distance.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Twins: In his second rehab outing at Class AAA Rochester as he recovers from a shoulder injury, reliever Casey Fien needed just 10 pitches to get through a scoreless inning.
UP NEXT
Both teams will be back on the field at noon on Wednesday to wrap up the three-game series. Twins RHP Phil Hughes (3-4, 4.50) will be trying for his third straight quality start. RHP Rick Porcello (4-3, 5.07) goes for Boston and is 5-1 with a 2.96 ERA in his last eight starts at Minnesota.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


Photo by: 
AP photo
TOUGH-LUCK LOSER: Clay Buchholz pitches during the Sox’ 2-1 loss to the Twins last night in Minneapolis.
1
MINNEAPOLIS — The way things are going for the Red Sox, it makes all the sense in the world that Clay Buchholz nearly threw a complete game last night without his best stuff — and still took a loss.
The right-hander delivered his fourth consecutive quality start but had nothing to show for it after a 2-1 loss to the Twins. He has lost three straight starts, and in all of them, the Sox have scored one run.
“I felt like I did a pretty good job,” he said. “Just seems like we’re running into a lot of guys that are throwing the ball (well) right now.”
Buchholz allowed two runs in the first inning, which began with a double and walk before he got a double play. The two-out momentum sputtered, as he served up back-to-back RBI doubles to Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki.
The two runs stood on a night when the Red Sox lineup did much worse than Buchholz’ estimation of his own performance.
“I didn’t have much tonight,’’ said Buchholz, who spread out seven hits and struck out four while walking only one in 71⁄3 innings. His record fell to 2-6 even though his ERA has dropped from 6.03 to 4.33 since May 4. “As the game went on, I found a couple of pitches and was able to throw a couple strikes and make some big pitches in some big situations. As far as stuff, I felt that was the worst that I’ve had.”
Buchholz followed up his first inning with two clean innings, followed by a fourth in which he got out of a bases-loaded jam with a well-timed double play. He never was in serious trouble after that. Two nice diving plays by right fielder Rusney Castillo helped his cause.
“For the most part, I’ve had a couple off-speed pitches I can throw for strikes. That was sort of the difference today,” Buchholz said. “I never really got comfortable with any one pitch. I left a lot of fastballs middle and middle up. I was trying to go up to some righties and didn’t quite get it there at any point in the game. I’m pretty fortunate to escape here not giving up a lot more.”
Buchholz did not point a finger at his offense for failing to help him, again.
“That happens,” Buchholz said. “I’ve gotten a lot of wins whenever I’ve given up four, five or six runs. It’s found a way to come back. It’ll turn around.”
Manager John Farrell praised Buchholz for settling down and doing “an outstanding job for us.”
That the lack of offense did not faze him impressed the skipper.
“Well, a pitcher goes out to do what he can control, and that’s to execute,” Farrell said. “That game was moving quick, it had a chance to keep him concentrated in a good rhythm, which he was, but you don’t go out there with the mindset you’re not going to score. You go out and keep the opposition in check and give yourself to get on the board. And he did just that all night.”
© Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.

