To search in site, type your keyword and hit enter
Close
Vladimir Putin We have one Fatherland, one people and a common future
Wikimedia Photo
What would Jeb do? That is not exactly a question that has been on the lips of everyone as the darkness of GOP ideology was thrown into the harsh glare of Indiana’s attempt to circumvent constitutional rights by legislation discrimination back into law. Of course, the GOP money men and politicians are breathing a great big sigh of relief that their backward Hoosier brethren decided to pass a bill of incomprehensible stupidity into law a full year and a half before the general election in November 2016. Had Gov. Mike Pence and the rest of the his like-minded Republican lawmakers up there in the Middle been foolish enough to waituntil sometime between Labor Day and Halloween, circa 2016, the question what would Jeb do could very easily have become a Democratic dance on the Day of the Dead.
What would Jeb do about the recent rash of desperate maneuversby Republican-controlled legislatures in states governed by a bunch of clueless guys imagining they have actually have a shot at being elected President? Sure, it may not matter much now…but give it a good sixteen months and see how important the question becomes. Why? Because while Jeb Bush may be facing competition in individual polls now on the race to the GOP nomination, the story will likely look far different come the fall of 2016. Shocking surprises is not exactly the stock-in-trade of the Republican Party. In fact, they now have more than four decades of historical precedent of eventually nominating the “next guy in line.”
Sure, the GOP will put on its little dog and pony show in the early primaries as a way offortifying itself against its nightmare scenario of a full tilt exodus byits most extreme right wing rank and file members, but a certain lineup of names gives the spectacle away: Reagan, Bush, Dole, Bush, McCain and Romney.
What are the oddsof yet another Bush getting added to that less than stellar collection of (ahem) statesmen? Roughly the same as the odds that the New England Patriots will be accused of cheating again sometime during the next two seasons. In other words, bet the farm and retire comfortably. So while the question of what would Jeb do if he were President of the United States while his fellow Republicans were legislating unconstitutional discrimination onto their state statutes means almost nothing on April Fool’s Day 2014, the story could be quite different come April Fool’s Day 2017.
Perhaps a glimpse into the darkest of all possible near-futures in Americacan be gleaned not from what Jeb would do, but what Jeb did say.
On Monday:, before most Americans had really become familiar with the law:
Indiana’s controversial discrimination law was “simply allowing people of faith space to be able to express their beliefs — to be able to be people of conscience.”
“Gov. Pence has done the right thing.I think if you — if they actually got briefed on the law that they wouldn’t be blasting this law.”
By Wednesday, at which point Indiana’s new law was even pushing news of Tom Brady jumping off a bluff from the front of the broadcast, Jeb was saying this:
“I do think if you’re a florist and you don’t want to participate in the arrangement of a wedding, you shouldn’t have to be obliged to do that if it goes against your faith because you believe in traditional marriage.Likewise if someone walked into a flower shop as a gay couple and said I want to buy all these off the rack, these flowers, they should have every right to do it. That would be discrimination. But forcing someone to participate in a wedding is not discrimination; it is I think protecting the first amendment right.”
Have You Read?
April 3, 2015
+ 4 =  ten
Political Thoughts
-->

