NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
By REUTERS
A subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee has scheduled a hearing for June 2 on the problems that led to the recall of Takata airbags, which have been linked to at least six deaths and more than 100 injuries.
Takata, 11 automakers that used its airbag technology, and United States safety regulators are each pursuing separate efforts to determine the root cause of the problem, which has led to the recall of about 34 million vehicles.
Replacement inflaters that are currently being installed could eventually need to be replaced if it turns out that the real problem was not addressed before Takata began making parts to fix vehicles covered by the expanded recall announced last week, several industry officials familiar with the investigation said. The airbags can explode with too much force, causing shrapnel to fly out and hit drivers and passengers.
“If you don’t find out the root cause, who knows? We may have this same discussion again in four, five, six, seven, 10 years,” said David Kelly, a former acting National Highway Traffic Safety administrator now charged with leading a consortium of automakers investigating the Takata inflaters.
Mr. Kelly did not say how soon his group would finish its work. “It is apparent to us that we have a lot of work in front of us,” he said.
“We are confident that our new airbags are safe,” Takata said in a statement on Tuesday. The company has organized an independent quality assurance panel led by Samuel K. Skinner, the former United States transportation secretary. That panel is conducting “a comprehensive review to ensure Takata’s current manufacturing procedures meet best practices,” the company said.
The Japanese supplier has been investigating airbag problems for more than seven years but says it has narrowed the search only to “preliminary conclusions.”
Takata has said inflaters exposed over several years to high humidity combined with cycling between extreme high and low temperatures are at risk. Too much moisture can cause the ammonium nitrate in the airbag propellant to break down, increasing the risks of an explosion.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: House Schedules Hearing on Troubles With Airbags. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
The Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Subcommittee will hold the hearing in Washington next Tuesday.
Post to Facebook
Panel to hold hearing on deadly Takata air bag ruptures The Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Subcommittee will hold the hearing in Washington next Tuesday. Check out this story on Freep.com: http://on.freep.com/1HJGhwG
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Panel to hold hearing on deadly Takata air bag ruptures
By Todd Spangler, Detroit Free Press 9:35 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
This photo provided by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety shows a crash test of a 2002 Honda CR-V, one of the models subject to a recall to repair faulty air bags made by Takata Corp.
(Photo: Insurance Institute for Highway Safety via Associated Press)
WASHINGTON — A week after federal regulators and air bag maker Takata announced the largest safety recall in U.S. history, a congressional subcommittee said today it would hold a hearing next week to get an update on the widening campaign to address potentially deadly air bag inflators.
The Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Subcommittee — part of the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee — will hold the hearing in Washington next Tuesday as congressional investigators try to get to the bottom of what the full committee chairman, U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, called "a year of Takata ruptures and recalls."
A witness list wasn't immediately released but it is expected that federal transportation officials, including regulators with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, would be on hand to discuss last week's announcement that Takata, for the first time, officially acknowledged the defect and was expanding what had been a regional recall nationwide.
The recall now covers an estimated 34 million vehicles, making it the largest safety recall in the nation's history. At least six people have died and more than 100 have been injured when air bag inflators have ruptured, ejecting shards of metal into drivers and passengers.
The subcommittee last held a hearing on the status of the recall in December and Upton said it's past time for "Takata, NHTSA, and the manufacturers to explain to drivers what went wrong and how and when they can fix it." In last week's announcement, federal regulators acknowledged that the root cause of the defect is still not known and that it could take years to complete the recall.
The hearing is set for 2 p.m. next Tuesday.
Contact Todd Spangler at 703-854-8947 or at tspangler@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter at @tsspangler.
TOP VIDEOS
More Stories

