NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
By REUTERS
A subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee has scheduled a hearing for June 2 on the problems that led to the recall of Takata airbags, which have been linked to at least six deaths and more than 100 injuries.
Takata, 11 automakers that used its airbag technology, and United States safety regulators are each pursuing separate efforts to determine the root cause of the problem, which has led to the recall of about 34 million vehicles.
Replacement inflaters that are currently being installed could eventually need to be replaced if it turns out that the real problem was not addressed before Takata began making parts to fix vehicles covered by the expanded recall announced last week, several industry officials familiar with the investigation said. The airbags can explode with too much force, causing shrapnel to fly out and hit drivers and passengers.
“If you don’t find out the root cause, who knows? We may have this same discussion again in four, five, six, seven, 10 years,” said David Kelly, a former acting National Highway Traffic Safety administrator now charged with leading a consortium of automakers investigating the Takata inflaters.
Mr. Kelly did not say how soon his group would finish its work. “It is apparent to us that we have a lot of work in front of us,” he said.
“We are confident that our new airbags are safe,” Takata said in a statement on Tuesday. The company has organized an independent quality assurance panel led by Samuel K. Skinner, the former United States transportation secretary. That panel is conducting “a comprehensive review to ensure Takata’s current manufacturing procedures meet best practices,” the company said.
The Japanese supplier has been investigating airbag problems for more than seven years but says it has narrowed the search only to “preliminary conclusions.”
Takata has said inflaters exposed over several years to high humidity combined with cycling between extreme high and low temperatures are at risk. Too much moisture can cause the ammonium nitrate in the airbag propellant to break down, increasing the risks of an explosion.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: House Schedules Hearing on Troubles With Airbags. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Congress to hold new Takata air bag hearing
A panel will hold a June 2 hearing on the recall of 34 million vehicles with potentially defective Takata air bags
Post to Facebook
Congress to hold new Takata air bag hearing A panel will hold a June 2 hearing on the recall of 34 million vehicles with potentially defective Takata air bags Check out this story on detroitnews.com: http://detne.ws/1HvegDo
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Congress to hold new Takata air bag hearing
Senate Commerce Committee member Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla. displays the parts and function of a defective airbag made by Takata of Japan that has been linked to multiple deaths and injuries in cars driven in the U.S. during the committee's hearing in Washington in November.
(Photo: J. Scott Applewhite / AP, file)
A House Energy and Commerce panel will hold a June 2 hearing on the record-setting recall of nearly 34 million vehicles with potentially defective Takata air bags by 11 automakers.
The subcommittee on commerce, manufacturing and trade will hold a hearing, its first in nearly six months on the issue of exploding air bags linked to at least six deaths and more than 100 injuries. It will come two weeks after Japanese air bag manufacturer Takata, under heavy pressure from the Obama administration, agreed to declare 33.8 million vehicles defective.
The hearing titled, “An Update on the Takata Airbag Ruptures and Recalls,” is to “continue the subcommittee’s work to better understand the problems leading to the safety recall for nearly 34 million automobiles resulting from faulty Takata air bags,” the committee said. “Members will also review the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s response as they seek answers about this ongoing safety issue.”
The panel held a hearing in December, where Takata and NHTSA came under criticism. The Senate Commerce Committee also held a Takata hearing last year and has been holding staff briefings on the issue in recent days. It may follow the House hearing with its own hearing.
Government officials say the campaign could take years to complete and be the single largest U.S. recall of any consumer product, surpassing the callback of 31 million bottles of Tylenol in 1982 amid a poison scare.
To date, 10 automakers have recalled more than 18 million vehicles with Takata air bags in the United States and are expected to identify the other 16 million vehicles impacted later this week. An 11th, Daimler Trucks, was added when the recall expanded to 33.8 million vehicles.
The massive air bag recall covers more than 13 percent of all cars and trucks on the roads in the United States today. It will easily surpass the largest automotive recall: more than 20 million vehicles by Ford Motor Co. in 1980 for a transmission issue that only required the addition of a warning sticker.
“We want to get the answers,” said U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, who heads the full committte, in an interview at the Detroit Regional Chamber’s Mackinac Policy Conference. “We want to make sure cars are safe, whether they be tires or air bags.”
Upton said he had a personal experience with a life-saving air bag  Thursday night while driving his Ford Explorer home to St. Joseph from the South Bend, Indiana, airport. Upton said his air bags deployed after he hit two deer on a highway after crossing into Michigan, seriously damaging the  SUV.
The congressman said he was uninjured in the crash. “Maybe I’m lucky it wasn’t a Takata,” Upton told The Detroit News.
Upton said he wasn’t going to prejudge the way Takata handled its defective air bags.
“We’re digging into this,” Upton said. “We’re not going to make any premature decisions.”
Last week, NHTSA said it would  take an unprecedented step of launching an effort to assert broad oversight over 11 major automakers to speed the massive recall.
NHTSA said Thursday it intends to use its authority under a 2000 federal law called the TREAD Act for the first time to oversee what will be the largest auto recall in U.S. history. The federal agency could order additional production of replacement parts by other suppliers, decide how the parts are used and where, and exercise broad authority over the callback.
Upton said last year he was considering introducing auto safety legislation, but has said in recent months he is waiting for a review of NHTSA’s actions by the Transportation Department’s inspector general, which was ordered in the face of General Motors Co. delayed recall of 2.6 million cars for ignition defects that are linked to at least 107 deaths and nearly 200 injuries.
In a Detroit News interview in February, Upton said he hasn’t focused on auto safety issues this year. “I just haven’t had a chance to focus on it yet,” he said. He was noncommittal on whether he will bring up auto safety legislation this year.
Democrats on the panel, led by the ranking member Rep. Frank Pallone, D-N.J., have called for sweeping auto safety reforms.
Pallone, Rep. Jan Schakowsky, D-Ill., and others in February reintroduced a measure that would dramatically hike NHTSA’s auto safety budget by at least $100 million by 2017 by imposing a $3 fee on all new car sales that would rise to $9 by 2018.
The small fee was proposed by Democrats in 2010 but has garnered little support. The Obama administration proposed this month tripling NHTSA’s auto safety budget to $31.7 million and doubling its staff to more than 100 employees. The House Appropriations Committee overseeing NHTSA didn’t approve any new funding for defect investigations in a hearing earlier this month.
DShepardson@detroitnews.com

