NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
By REUTERS
A subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee has scheduled a hearing for June 2 on the problems that led to the recall of Takata airbags, which have been linked to at least six deaths and more than 100 injuries.
Takata, 11 automakers that used its airbag technology, and United States safety regulators are each pursuing separate efforts to determine the root cause of the problem, which has led to the recall of about 34 million vehicles.
Replacement inflaters that are currently being installed could eventually need to be replaced if it turns out that the real problem was not addressed before Takata began making parts to fix vehicles covered by the expanded recall announced last week, several industry officials familiar with the investigation said. The airbags can explode with too much force, causing shrapnel to fly out and hit drivers and passengers.
“If you don’t find out the root cause, who knows? We may have this same discussion again in four, five, six, seven, 10 years,” said David Kelly, a former acting National Highway Traffic Safety administrator now charged with leading a consortium of automakers investigating the Takata inflaters.
Mr. Kelly did not say how soon his group would finish its work. “It is apparent to us that we have a lot of work in front of us,” he said.
“We are confident that our new airbags are safe,” Takata said in a statement on Tuesday. The company has organized an independent quality assurance panel led by Samuel K. Skinner, the former United States transportation secretary. That panel is conducting “a comprehensive review to ensure Takata’s current manufacturing procedures meet best practices,” the company said.
The Japanese supplier has been investigating airbag problems for more than seven years but says it has narrowed the search only to “preliminary conclusions.”
Takata has said inflaters exposed over several years to high humidity combined with cycling between extreme high and low temperatures are at risk. Too much moisture can cause the ammonium nitrate in the airbag propellant to break down, increasing the risks of an explosion.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: House Schedules Hearing on Troubles With Airbags. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


The Columbus Dispatch
Customer Service
For service, call 1-877-734-7728.
For billing, call 1-866-790-7748.
Subscriptions
Advertising
To place help wanted ads, call 614-888-8888 or visit ColumbusJobs.com
For private seller and classified advertising, call 614-888-8888 or visit DispatchClassifieds.com .
For retail advertising, call 614-461-5500 or email us .
For national advertising, call 614-461-5199.
For online advertising, call 614-461-5143 or email us .
Newsroom
To send news tips, use our News Tip Form or call 614-461-5200.
Dispatch Careers
Fax 614-461-5565.
Interested in delivering The Dispatch or The Bag? Check out dispatch.com/delivery or dispatch.com/bagdelivery .
Total Access
Enjoy the convenience of home delivery plus Digital D. Sign up for our BEST VALUE today!
Online? On the go? Enjoy unlimited premium dispatch.com content plus the E-Edition for computer and iPad.
Award-winning journalism conveniently delivered to your home. Choose the custom package best suited for you!
Connect With Us
The Dispatch E-Edition
The E-Edition includes all of the news, comics, classifieds and advertisements of the newspaper. And it's available to subscribers before 6 a.m. every day.
AP file photo
Takata Corp. of Japan said it has been studying its air-bag problems for seven years, including reviewing more than 45,000 inflators in the past year.
By Ben Klayman Reuters  •  Wednesday May 27, 2015 1:20 AM
DETROIT — It might take months for automakers and safety regulators to nail down why air-bag inflators made by Takata Corp. are exploding with too much force, meaning consumers cannot be certain that replacement inflators installed under a sweeping recall are safe, industry officials involved in the process said.
Takata, 11 automakers that used its air-bag technology and U.S. safety regulators are pursuing separate efforts to determine the root cause of problems linked to at least six deaths.
Replacement inflators that are currently being installed could eventually need to be replaced if it turns out that the real problem was not addressed before Takata began making parts to fix about 34 million vehicles covered by the expanded U.S. recall announced last week, several industry officials familiar with the probes said. The air bags can explode with too much force, causing shrapnel to fly out and hit drivers and passengers.
“If you don’t find out the root cause, who knows? We may have this same discussion again in four, five, six, seven, 10 years,” said David Kelly, a former acting administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration who’s now charged with leading a consortium of 10 automakers investigating the Takata inflators.
Kelly did not say how soon his group would finish its work.
“It is apparent to us that we have a lot of work in front of us,” he said.
In a statement on Tuesday, Takata said, “We are confident that our new air bags are safe.” The company has organized an “independent Quality Assurance Panel,” led by former U.S. Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner, that is conducting “a comprehensive review to ensure that Takata’s current manufacturing procedures meet best practices,” the company said.
The Japanese supplier, which has been investigating air-bag problems for more than seven years, said it has narrowed the search only to “preliminary conclusions” linked to multiple factors.
Takata has said that inflators exposed over several years to high humidity, combined with cycling between extreme high and low temperatures, are at risk. Too much moisture can cause the ammonium nitrate in the air-bag propellant to break down, increasing the risks of a violent explosion, chemical experts and analysts said.
Takata cited other factors, including the design of the inflator or the air bag, which might be prone to leaky tape seals; the shape of the explosive propellant used to deploy the air bag, and vehicle design. In past recalls, Takata has blamed manufacturing mistakes and problems with proper storage of propellant.
“It’s a confluence of a whole series of issues that have been going on for a long time,” said Sean Kane, president of Safety Research & Strategies, a consultant for plaintiffs’ attorneys, government organizations and companies.
Takata said it has reviewed more than 45,000 inflators over the past year in ballistic tests, live dissections, propellant analysis for moisture, chemical analysis, air and helium leak tests and CT scans.
Meanwhile, automakers that used Takata air-bag hardware have stepped up efforts to determine the cause of the explosions. Honda Motor Co., which built the vehicles involved in all six of the fatalities attributed to Takata air bags, bought used and scrapped cars in Japan last autumn to conduct its own tests. Two senior Honda insiders said then that the testing indicated shortcomings in Takata’s manufacturing quality.
Federal safety regulators recently hired Columbus-based Battelle to probe for the cause, a task made more complex because automakers used four different types of inflators across a wide range of models.
“We have a lot of work to do, especially with regard to why this happened in the first place,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said last week.
Safety administration chief Mark Rosekind said last week that replacement inflators “are safer. The concern is, are they safe over the long term? That has yet to be determined.”
The explosive propellant Takata still uses to power its inflators — ammonium nitrate — is not in the clear. The material is less expensive and cleaner burning than other options, but it can be highly volatile, industry officials and chemists said.
The Bottom Line
The Bottom Line
Product recalls

