News
Giles lets 4-run rally go to waste, Phillies fall to Mets in 10
New York Mets' Wilmer Flores (4) runs to first base as Juan Lagares (12) heads to home plate after Flores hit an RBI single to during the tenth inning of a baseball game against the Philadelphia Phillies Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in New York. The Mets won 5-4. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II)
By Dennis Deitch, ddeitch@21st-centurymedia.com
Philadelphia Phillies' Maikel Franco (7) follows through as he hits an RBI single during the eighth inning of a baseball game against the New York Mets Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in New York. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II)
NEW YORK — With the game tied and the heart of the Mets’ order coming to the plate in the bottom of the 10th Tuesday night, Elvis entered the building.
Four batters later, he left the building. So did everyone else, most of them thrilled that Wilmer Flores’ two-out single to left off Elvis Araujo allowed the Mets to walk off with a 5-4 win over the Phillies at Citi Field.
Sandberg turned to the rookie left-hander after Jeanmar Gomez gave up a leadoff single to Juan Lagares. With Jake Diekman getting heavy usage and struggling of late, Ryne Sandberg figured he would give Araujo a shot.
Unfortunately for Araujo, he had the same issue with walking the leadoff batter as the other relievers have had. He walked Lucas Duda to put the winning run at second, but bounced back by getting David Murphy to ground into a double play. Michael Cuddyer followed with a walk to bring put Flores in position to get the game-winning hit a second straight day.
Advertisement
It was the third straight loss and fifth in the last six games for the Phillies (19-29), who have lost any momentum they had created with their six-game winning streak a week earlier.
In truth, it was stunning that the game got that far, because as it entered the eighth it seemed Mets starter Jacob deGrom had a firm grip on the result.
If the Phillies knew that all they had to do was get one baserunner to second base against deGrom and that would prompt Terry Collins to take the dominating right-hander out of the game, they would have gotten on that earlier.
The Phils were down 3-0 and not getting very far against deGrom when Carlos Ruiz and pinch-hitter Cesar Hernandez put together a couple of one-out singles in the eighth. The tying run was coming to the plate, but in the form of Ben Revere, who isn’t hitting a homer off deGrom in this lifetime.
Regardless, Collins decided to go to the bullpen and call in Hansel Robles, who immediately gave up a two-run triple to Revere. Freddy Galvis followed with a single to center, and  four pitches after deGrom left a game he had under control, it was tied, 3-3.
The rally didn’t end there. Chase Utley singled off Alex Torres, moving Galvis to third. Ryan Howard would be called out on a low third strike, but Maikel Franco picked him up with a single to left off the Mets’ fourth pitcher of the inning, Carlos Torres, putting the Phils up, 4-3.
That lead didn’t last long.
Ken Giles walked Duda to open the bottom of the eighth, and the disgust he displayed after ball four quickly turned into trouble when David Murphy followed with a double into the right-field corner. Giles tried to work his way out of the jam, striking out Cuddyer, but Flores scored the tying run with a lineout to center.
The Phils were fortunate to enter the ninth tied, as Franco bailed Giles out when he made an outstanding barehanded play on a slow roller off Darrell Ceciliani’s bat and threw him out by a whisker.
“No, I did not,” Sandberg said when asked if he thought Franco could get Ceciliani there. “Even when he fielded it, I didn’t know if he’d get it over there quick enough. But his arm really came into play.
“Giles was out of the zone from the get-go. It looked like he was really struggling to get the ball down and throw strikes down in the zone.”
The Mets got three runs off Phils starter Jerome Williams in the third inning, and all three came with two outs. They also scored after deGrom hit what should’ve been a textbook double-play grounder to Utley. However, Utley did his patently weak and awful backhanded flip to shortstop from too far away, and deGrom, who is both a good athlete and runs as hard as any pitcher, was able to beat the relay throw as a result.
“It was hit hard enough,” said Sandberg, who as a former second baseman said he never considered doing that backhanded flip. “I thought that it was a double play from the get-go. There was a lapse there. With the pitcher running, it looked like a double-play ball.”
Instead of the inning being over when Juan Lagares grounded into a forceout two batters later, Duda got to deliver an RBI single, and two batters later Cuddyer drove in two more with a broken-bat hit to left field.
“That’s what I was thinking from the get-go – two outs,” Williams said of deGrom’s grounder. “But he was coming down the line hard. I didn’t know he was that fast.
“It all could’ve been prevented if not for the walks. I tried my best to get out of that inning and threw the pitch where I wanted to, but (Cuddyer) got that hit.”

