Cuomo lifts travel ban to Indiana
From trip in the Caribbean, Gov. Andrew Cuomo sent word that he has lifted the four-day-old ban on nonessential travel by state employees to Indiana, an action Cuomo took to protest the state's passage of a "religious freedom restoration act" that critics...
From trip in the Caribbean, Gov. Andrew Cuomo sent word that he has lifted the four-day-old ban on nonessential travel by state employees to Indiana, an action Cuomo took to protest the state's passage of a "religious freedom restoration act" that critics charged would have permitted private organizations to discriminate against gays and lesbians by citing religious beliefs.
Indiana's legislature and Gov. Mike Pence swiftly amended the statute on Thursday following many days of protests from lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender groups as well as quite a few voices in the small business sector.
Besides begging the question of what constitutes "necessary" travel to Indiana by New York State workers, Cuomo's ban raised the eyebrows of those who noted that the governor is only two and a half weeks away from embarking on a trade mission to Cuba, a nation notorious for its poor treatment of LGBT citizens.
The travel ban meant that any SUNY basketball coaches who wished to travel to the conclusion of the NCAA tournament in Indianapolis would have to pay for their own trips.
In a statement, Cuomo stated: "Soon after reviewing the amendments created to Indiana's state law and consulting with LGBT advocacy groups here in New York, I think the adjustments enacted by the Indiana Executive and Legislature must avert the Religious Freedom Restoration Act from becoming utilised to discriminate against gay, lesbian, bi-sexual and transgender citizens and travelers. As a outcome, I am lifting New York's ban against state funded and state sponsored travel to Indiana, successful promptly."
— Casey Seiler
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

