Oakland Athletics infielder/outfielder Ben Zobrist made his return from knee surgery in a 1-0 loss to the Detroit Tigers on Tuesday night.
Play2:35
2h
Kris Bryant and Bryce Harper traded solo blasts, but Addison Russell was the young star coming of age with his game-winning double in the bottom of the ninth.
3 Related
Philadelphia Phillies general manager Ruben Amaro says that fans who don't understand the team's methodical approach to turning the franchise around "don't understand the game."
Play2:35
Cubs rookie Kris Bryant hit a game-tying home run in the bottom of the eighth inning of his team's eventual 3-2 win over the Washington Nationals on Tuesday. The HR would have gone 463 feet.
Dilip Vishwanat/Getty Images
37mMark Saxon
Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later tonight or Wednesday morning.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images
10h
Cincinnati Reds starter Johnny Cueto will miss at least one more start after an MRI found inflammation in his pitching elbow.
Play0:59
4h
ST. LOUIS --  The Cardinals anticipate first baseman Matt Adams will be placed on the 15-day disabled list after straining his right quadriceps while running out a double in the fifth inning.
Tom Szczerbowski/Getty Images
9h
Blue Jays slugger Jose Bautista is back in the starting lineup for Tuesday's game against the White Sox and says his sore right shoulder is pain free after a cortisone shot.
AP Photo/John Bazemore
9h
A week after firing Mike Redmond and replacing him with Dan Jennings, the Marlins reassigned third base coach Brett Butler on Tuesday and replaced him with assistant hitting coach Lenny Harris.
Play0:43
2hDavid Schoenfield
Josh Donaldson became the first player to score five runs in a game in 2015 -- while hitting his sixth career walk-off.
Play1:41
1h
Prince Fielder is raking as the regular DH for the Texas Rangers, and that's a beautiful thing.
2 Related
26m
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans the way Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
1 Related
Bryce Harper's fast start to the season has shown what he truly could be capable of doing over the long haul.
Play0:37
1h
Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw was his dominant self in an 8-0 victory over the Braves, allowing four hits and striking out 10 in seven shutout innings.
3 Related
AP Photo/Kathy Willens
5hAndrew Marchand
Five signs of hope for the New York Yankees as they pass the Memorial Day mark in contention in the American League East.
Play0:21
4hDavid Schoenfield
The first returns are in on the All-Star voting and the Kansas City Royals have leaders at five positions.
Play3:15
12hStephania Bell
Stephania Bell checks in with her insight on the injuries to David Wright and Victor Martinez -- including when each of them may return to action.
Play3:40
13h
A little pine tar here. Some rosin and sunscreen there. Baseball Tonight's Dallas Braden and Alex Cora explain how to cheat in baseball.
2 Related
18hDavid Schoenfield
Jeremy Guthrie of the Kansas City Royals put up this pitching line on Monday against the Yankees: 1 IP, 9 H, 11 R, 11 ER, 3 BB, 1 SO, 4 HR.
Play1:06
5d
Jim Bowden lays out the 20 players most likely to be traded by July 31, rating each one on their chances of being dealt and looking at where they might end up.
1 Related
Zobrist played for the first time since April 24, a day after coming off the disabled list from left knee surgery. He hurt his knee sliding into second base in mid-April against Kansas City, sat for three games and tried to DH through the pain but decided arthroscopic surgery to trim the meniscus was his best option. 
Zobrist had a one-out double in the fifth.
The A's got more good news Tuesday, as lefty  Sean Doolittle was activated from the 15-day disabled list after being sidelined with a shoulder injury. He will not move back into the closer role right away.
"He is a difference-maker," manager Bob Melvin said.
 The Associated Press contributed to this report.
0 Shares

