Michele Bachmann compares Barack Obama with Germanwings co-pilot Andreas Lubitz
Even by Michele Bachmann's extraordinary standards of liberal-baiting or gaffe making – depending on your point of view - the Tea Party queen and former White Residence hopeful has surpassed herself. In possibly her most offensive comments to date,...
Even by Michele Bachmann's extraordinary standards of liberal-baiting or gaffe making – depending on your point of view - the Tea Party queen and former White Residence hopeful has surpassed herself.
In possibly her most offensive comments to date, the Republican politician has compared Barack Obama with Andreas Lubitz, the suicidal Germanwings co-pilot
&#x201cWith his Iran deal, Barack Obama is for the 300 million souls of the United States what Andreas Lubitz was for the 150 souls on the German Wings flight - a deranged pilot flying his entire nation into the rocks,” she posted on her Facebook page as talks in Lausanne neared their climax.
&#x201cAfter the reality, among the smouldering remains of American cities, the shocked survivors will ask, why did he do it?”
Reaction was swift and near unanimous. Germans, Americans and other nationalities all added their outrage in comments posted on her page.
Al Ehks wrote: &#x201cAs a German who was deeply impacted by the Germanwings crash final week, I have to ask you what on Earth provides you the appropriate to evaluate the US president to Andreas Lubitz?”
Action Press/Rex Functions
Jason Sikes stated: &#x201cI'm embarrassed for this country that you have been ever elected to higher office.”
Mrs Bachman has been a blunt critic of US attempts at come across a deal with Iran over its nuclear programme. She claimed she utilized final year's White Property Christmas Celebration as a chance to pass her wisdom straight to Mr Obama himself.
&#x201cI turned to the president and I said, something to the impact of, 'Mr. President, you require to bomb the Iranian nuclear facilities, due to the fact if you never, Iran will have a nuclear weapon on your watch and the course of world history will alter,'" she said.
A stele and flowers laid in memory of the victims are placed in the region exactly where the Germanwings jetliner crashed in the French Alps, in Le Vernet, France (Christopher Ena/AP)
Mrs Bachmann stepped down as a member of Congress for Minnesota at the begin of the year, just after an unsuccessful bid to safe the Republican nomination for the 2012 election.
• Michele Bachmann's top rated five quotes
She distinguished her campaign with a critical of gaffes.
One particular of the less offensive came when she visited Waterloo, Iowa, and announced how thrilled she was to be in the hometown of John Wayne, not realising it was the hometown of the other John Wayne – John Wayne Gacey who murdered 33 people today and hid their remains beneath his property.
With her disappearance from the national scene, a lot of believed they had detected the genuine explanation for her Iran outburst.
"Posting outrageous factors in a pathetic try to remain relevant?" posted Lynda Anderson.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

