AP photo
President Thomas S. Monson of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints looks on the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City.
Posted: Sunday, April 5, 2015 9:40 pm
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) — Mormon church President Thomas S. Monson used the closing day of the faith's biannual conference to announce plans for three new temples in Africa, Southeast Asia and the Caribbean.
Monson said Sunday the temples will be built in Bangkok, Thailand; Abidjan, Ivory Coast; and Port-au-Prince, Haiti. It will be the church's first temples in the three countries and will spare Mormons there long trips to reach temples in other countries.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints operates 144 temples worldwide, with some 30 more either being announced or under construction.
Mormons view temples as sacred houses of God, where they take part in eternal marriage and their faith's other highest sacraments. They hold Sunday services in chapels or meetinghouses.
Monson, considered a prophet of God by 15 million Mormons, emphasized that temple attendance can provide members strength and peace in times of trial and temptation.
"As we go to the temple, as we remember the covenants we make there, we will be better able to overcome those temptations and to bear our trials. In the temple we can find peace," he said.
The construction of new temples is "a very clear indication of the growth of the church," the 87-year-old Monson added.
It had been two years since Monson last unveiled plans for a new temple, the longest lag between temple announcements in 25 years for the church, the Deseret News reported.
More than 100,000 Mormons descended on Salt Lake City this weekend for the conference. Millions more watched live broadcasts of the event from around the U.S. and in more than 200 other countries.
Mormon leaders on Sunday provided spiritual guidance and discussed the Easter events of Christ's death on the cross and resurrection.
"Today we celebrate the gift of victory over every fall we have ever experienced, every sorrow we have ever known, every discouragement we have ever had, every fear we have ever faced — to say nothing of our resurrection from death and forgiveness for our sins," apostle Jeffrey R. Holland said.
All that Jesus experienced those three days "constitutes the most important moment, the most singular sacrifice, the most consequential manifestation of divine love ever to be demonstrated in the history of the world," Holland added.
Dieter F. Uchtdorf, second counselor in the faith's all-male governing First Presidency, focused the bulk of his Easter sermon on the notion of divine grace.
"We cannot earn our way into heaven; the demands of justice stand as a barrier, which we are powerless to overcome on our own," Uchtdorf said. "But all is not lost. The grace of God is our great and everlasting hope."
While grace is a free gift, he said, members should be obedient to God's laws "out of love."
"Trying to understand God's gift of grace with all our heart and mind gives us all the more reasons to love and obey our Heavenly Father with meekness and gratitude," Uchtdorf said.
Rules of Conduct
1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.
3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.
4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.
Welcome to the discussion.
Screen Name or Email
Login
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
Login
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
Screen Name or Email
Login
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
Services
×
Follow us online:
Publisher
Jeff Hunter — Cache Magazine Editor — jhunter@hjnews.com — Ext. 329
Lance Frazier — Features Editor — lfrazier@hjnews.com — Ext. 327
Eli Lucero — Chief Photographer — elucero@hjnews.com — Ext. 340
Chuck Nunn — News Editor — cnunn@hjnews.com — Ext. 325
Casey Rock — Web Editor — casey.rock@hjnews.com — Ext. 330
Steve Kent — Copy Editor/Page Designer/Obituaries — skent@hjnews.com — Ext. 343
Natasha Bodily — Copy Editor/Page Designer/Obituaries — nbodily@hjnews.com — Ext. 343
News Editorial Staff
Lis Stewart — Logan City and General Assignment — lstewart@hjnews.com — Ext. 321
Kelly Cannon — K-12 Education — kcannon@hjnews.com — Ext. 339
Kevin Opsahl — Utah State University/Agriculture — kopsahl@hjnews.com — Ext. 331
Amy Macavinta — Crime and Courts — amacavinta@hjnews.com — Ext. 345
Rachel Fry — Hyrum/Wellsville and General Assignment — rfry@hjnews.com — Ext. 345
Shannon Nielsen — Cache and Franklin County — snielsen@hjnews.com — Ext. 334
Features Editorial Staff
Arie Kirk — Assistant Features Editor/Announcements — akirk@hjnews.com — Ext. 328
Rachel Fry — Features Writer — rfry@hjnews.com — Ext. 345
Lis Stewart — Features Writer — lstewart@hjnews.com — Ext. 321
Sports Editorial Staff
Jason Turner — Reporter — jturner@hjnews.com — Ext. 337
Cache Magazine
Photography Editorial Staff
Advertising Staff
Clayne Liechty — Outside Sales — cliechty@hjnews.com — Ext. 351
Devin Reeder — Outside Sales — dreeder@hjnews.com — Ext. 357
Debbie Andrew — Outside Sales — dandrew@hjnews.com — Ext. 362
Laurie Jackson — Team Assistant — ljackson@hjnews.com — Ext. 352
Cache Valley Connext
Classified Advertising Staff
Phone: (435) 792-7266 or toll-free: (877) 452-5277
Email: Classified Ads — hjclass@hjnews.com
PrePress Staff
Circulation Staff
Mike Taylor — Circulation Office Manager — mtaylor@hjnews.com — Ext. 308
Mary Loveland — Newsstand sales/Newspaper In Education/Single Copy Manager — mloveland@hjnews.com — Ext. 394
John Harlow — Transport and Property Manager — tharlow@hjnews.com — Ext. 399
Barbara Hoth — Customer Service Manager — bhoth@hjnews.com — Ext. 304
Accounting Staff
Monica Christensen — Payroll — mchristensen@hjnews.com — Ext. 305
Screen Name or Email
Login
facebook
google
yahoo
aol

