NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Coach Al Attles and the Warriors before Game 4 against the Washington Bullets in 1975. Credit Walter Iooss Jr./Sports Illustrated, via Getty Images
Advertisement
Shortly after the Houston Rockets had defeated Golden State in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals on Monday, Al Attles was back in his hotel room, preparing for the trip back to California.
For Warriors fans, the postseason had suddenly been turned on its head, if only for a day. The Warriors had lost a chance to sweep the series, and Stephen Curry, the N.B.A.’s golden boy, had taken a nasty spill in the second quarter, raising some initial concerns of a possible concussion that might keep him out of action for a while.
Curry eventually returned to the game, and presumably will start Game 5 in Oakland, Calif., on Wednesday night, when the Warriors will again try to close out the Rockets and advance to the N.B.A. finals for the first time in 40 years.
“You have to play the game, and being at home doesn’t guarantee anything,” Attles said in a telephone interview. “But I like our chances.”
Related Coverage
Photo
Attles (16), with the San Francisco Warriors, guarding the St. Louis Hawks’ Joe Caldwell in 1968. Attles was drafted in 1960 when the Warriors were in Philadelphia. Credit Associated Press
Attles was the head coach of the Warriors when on May 25, 40 years ago, they completed a stunning four-game sweep of the powerhouse Washington Bullets to win the franchise’s only title in its more than 50 years in the Bay Area.
Those Bullets were very much like the current Warriors, dominating from the start of the season. They went into the 1975 playoffs with a 60-22 record, a lot better than the 48-34 record Attles had put together with a squad that had one star, Rick Barry; a solid core of veterans; and two standout rookies, Phil Smith and Jamaal Wilkes. But the Warriors knew how to sneak up on people.
“Nobody expected much of us and felt that we were just lucky to even reach the finals,” Attles recalled. But his players, he said, “never believed” the low estimations others had of them.
“They couldn’t wait to get on the floor, then one day we looked up and we had won the championship,” Attles said.
As the Warriors’ coach that season, Attles developed an unusual system. His team went nine, sometimes 10 players deep, which was more than normal. Clifford Ray was the center. Barry and Wilkes played in the frontcourt. Butch Beard and Charles Johnson — nicknamed Jack Johnson — were the starting backcourt.
Photo
Attles in 1968, when he was a point guard with the San Francisco Warriors. Credit Associated Press
Attles brought Smith, Jeff Mullins, George Johnson, Derrek Dickey and Charles Dudley off the bench. An 11th player, Bill Bridges, came aboard in midseason and added some muscle to a group that, like the 2015 Warriors, was generally lauded for its finesse.
“Everybody thought I was going against conventional wisdom until we ended up winning, then everybody thought it was the thing to do,” Attles said of using so many players on a regular basis. “There was no ego; they were a team that came to play every night. That was a team that any coach at any level would have been happy coaching. ”
Advertisement
But the coach was Attles, the fire-breathing tough guy, the Warrior for life. In all, he has spent 55 uninterrupted seasons with the only N.B.A. organization he has ever known. A backcourt star who stands only 6 feet, Attles played his high school ball in Newark, his college ball at North Carolina A&T and then was selected by the Warriors in the fifth round of the 1960 draft when the franchise was still in Philadelphia.
Initially, Attles did not intend to try out for the Warriors, figuring he didn’t have much of a chance as a fifth-rounder. A lesser entity, the Eastern League, beckoned. But a friend kept nagging Attles to give the Warriors a shot. Finally, he relented.
“When I graduated from North Carolina A&T the first thing on my mind was to teach school in Newark and play in the Eastern League on the weekend,” he said. “I didn’t think I was going to be with the Warriors for a year. I planned to go to training camp for a week.”
Photo
Attles during a ceremony in March commemorating the Warriors’ 1975 championship. Attles, the team’s coach that season, has spent 55 years with the franchise. Credit Jeff Chiu/Associated Press
Dwight D. Eisenhower was finishing out his second term in the White House when Attles first made the Warriors. John F. Kennedy was president in 1962 when the Warriors, and Attles, moved to San Francisco.
Richard M. Nixon was president when Attles was named player-coach of the Warriors in 1969; Gerald Ford was president when the Warriors won the N.B.A. title; and Ronald Reagan was running the country when Attles stepped down as coach after the 1982-83 season. But Attles remained a Warrior — as a general manager, a scout, a team ambassador — as one Bush followed Reagan and another followed Bill Clinton and Barack Obama became the current occupant at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
Obama has a year and a half left in his presidency. Attles? He can stay with the Warriors as long as he likes.
A year after Attles coached the Warriors to the title, they made it back to the Western Conference finals, and lost. Until now, the franchise never got that far again in the postseason. And from the 1977-78 season through 1982-83, Attles could not find a way to steer an increasingly depleted Warriors team into the playoffs. After that season, Attles decided that he had had enough, telling the colorful owner Franklin Mieuli that he was leaving.
“We were losing players because of financial reasons,” Attles recalled. Wilkes, who had been the N.B.A.’s rookie of the year in 1975, would leave for the lure of the Los Angeles Lakers, Barry would go to Houston. Mieuli just did not have the resources to keep talented players.
“I really wanted to stay with Golden State,” Wilkes recalled. “But this was at a time when the N.B.A. was changing from owners who owned a team as a hobby to big business. Our owner was a well-intentioned guy, but I don’t think he had the funds.”
All these years later, Wilkes, who won three titles with the Lakers, said he was “really happy and excited” to see his original team with a shot at another title.
As for Attles, the best part about this experience is that he may get to be part of another championship and bring his whole basketball life full circle.
Email: wcr@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Warrior for Life Is Bridge to Lone Bay Area Title . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Purdy: Warriors have been good and lucky in NBA playoffs
When you saw Stephen Curry flying toward the hardwood floor Monday night, helpless in the vortex of NBA gravity, you were probably thinking horrible thoughts.
Not me. I was thinking: "Somehow, this will work out just fine."
And it has, apparently. Curry survived his fall and by all reports will start Game 5 against Houston on Wednesday. The Warriors persevere. The Warriors press onward toward the NBA Finals. The Warriors continue to ride basketball's longest and most glorious lucky streak.
Am I allowed to even mention that? It was why I was so convinced that Curry would emerge intact from his tumble. One reason the Warriors have been so incredibly successful in these playoffs is that they have been incredibly fortunate.
Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry (30) dribbles against Houston Rockets' Jason Terry (31) in the first quarter of Game 4 of the NBA Western Conference finals at the Toyota Center in Houston, Texas, on Monday, May 25, 2015.  (Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group)  ( José Carlos Fajardo )
It's not the only reason, understand. To watch the Warriors in fifth or sixth gear as they dismantle an opponent is a thing of beauty. It is performance art with ball screens and quick shot releases. They are really, really good. But they have also benefitted happily from providence.
Lucky ducks? That's a cliché. Instead, call them Lucky Dubs.
Of course, I realize that this proclamation will set off a rash of emails and tweets that I am demeaning the Warriors' achievements and being a spoilsport, hater, killjoy, idiot, whatever. Therefore, I promise to pause here for a paragraph so that everybody can go off to their favorite social media outlets and get all the rage out of their systems.
(Pause.)
Advertisement
There. Ready to calm down and hear me out? Every team that wins a championship is a great team. No team that holds up an ultimate trophy, especially after a gauntlet of seven-game playoff series, is a fluke. But those teams invariably receive breaks along the way.
This principle has held true for approximately forever. Almost 100 years ago, iconic sportswriter Grantland Rice wrote this poem: "Take all the credit you deserve, heads up in winning pride. But don't forget that Lady Luck was riding at your side."
Curry, in quotes after Monday's game, admitted he was a pure passenger during his free fall with no control over how he would land. He seemed gratefully surprised that he wasn't hurt worse, saying: "It's all kind of minor stuff compared to how it looked."
The Warriors' good fortune this spring has included a whole bunch of other stuff, as well. You can start with how the playoff bracket fell.  On paper, the three toughest playoff matchups for the Warriors figured to be the San Antonio Spurs, Los Angeles Clippers and Memphis Grizzlies.
Memphis, as expected, did give the Warriors problems and stretched them to six games. But again, a stroke of fate assisted. What if Grizzlies point guard Mike Conley, who sat out a Game 1 loss because of a healing facial fracture, had been able to play that night? Conley was dynamic when he did return and led a Memphis upset over the Warriors in Game 2. Later in the series, Memphis defensive specialist Tony Allen missed a game and then was hobbled by a hamstring problem.
On the flip side, the Warriors' only significant injury of the past six weeks has been to backup big man Marreese Speights, out since suffering a calf strain against Memphis and still unable to play. But even that injury's timing was fortuitous. When Speights went down, I flashed back to Curry's brilliant last-second game-tying jumper in Game 3 against New Orleans. Speights was the Warrior who hustled to grab the key rebound and pass the ball to Curry for the shot.
Would another Warrior have made that same play if Speights wasn't on the floor? Possibly. Possibly not. Was it luck that Speights didn't get hurt a few games earlier? Yes. It was.
Was it luck that Curry came down from his unscheduled flight with no grave injury? Yes. It was.
And did I mention the Finals forecast? The Warriors would play the Eastern Conference champion Cavaliers, who are hurting in a major way. A power forward who would pose problems, Kevin Love, is out after separating a shoulder in the first round. All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving missed two games in the conference finals because of knee tendinitis before suiting up Tuesday night. And the NBA's most accomplished player, LeBron James, has been nursing various injuries and owns up to fighting through pain to play every night.
You'll notice that no other NBA team has put itself in such excellent position to seize the opportunity being presented to them.
So far, the Warriors have been amazing at the seizing part. They also have been Lucky Dubs. There's no crime in being both.
Read Mark Purdy's blog at blogs.mercurynews.com/purdy . Contact him at mpurdy@mercurynews.com . Follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/MercPurdy .

