NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Coach Al Attles and the Warriors before Game 4 against the Washington Bullets in 1975. Credit Walter Iooss Jr./Sports Illustrated, via Getty Images
Advertisement
Shortly after the Houston Rockets had defeated Golden State in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals on Monday, Al Attles was back in his hotel room, preparing for the trip back to California.
For Warriors fans, the postseason had suddenly been turned on its head, if only for a day. The Warriors had lost a chance to sweep the series, and Stephen Curry, the N.B.A.’s golden boy, had taken a nasty spill in the second quarter, raising some initial concerns of a possible concussion that might keep him out of action for a while.
Curry eventually returned to the game, and presumably will start Game 5 in Oakland, Calif., on Wednesday night, when the Warriors will again try to close out the Rockets and advance to the N.B.A. finals for the first time in 40 years.
“You have to play the game, and being at home doesn’t guarantee anything,” Attles said in a telephone interview. “But I like our chances.”
Related Coverage
Photo
Attles (16), with the San Francisco Warriors, guarding the St. Louis Hawks’ Joe Caldwell in 1968. Attles was drafted in 1960 when the Warriors were in Philadelphia. Credit Associated Press
Attles was the head coach of the Warriors when on May 25, 40 years ago, they completed a stunning four-game sweep of the powerhouse Washington Bullets to win the franchise’s only title in its more than 50 years in the Bay Area.
Those Bullets were very much like the current Warriors, dominating from the start of the season. They went into the 1975 playoffs with a 60-22 record, a lot better than the 48-34 record Attles had put together with a squad that had one star, Rick Barry; a solid core of veterans; and two standout rookies, Phil Smith and Jamaal Wilkes. But the Warriors knew how to sneak up on people.
“Nobody expected much of us and felt that we were just lucky to even reach the finals,” Attles recalled. But his players, he said, “never believed” the low estimations others had of them.
“They couldn’t wait to get on the floor, then one day we looked up and we had won the championship,” Attles said.
As the Warriors’ coach that season, Attles developed an unusual system. His team went nine, sometimes 10 players deep, which was more than normal. Clifford Ray was the center. Barry and Wilkes played in the frontcourt. Butch Beard and Charles Johnson — nicknamed Jack Johnson — were the starting backcourt.
Photo
Attles in 1968, when he was a point guard with the San Francisco Warriors. Credit Associated Press
Attles brought Smith, Jeff Mullins, George Johnson, Derrek Dickey and Charles Dudley off the bench. An 11th player, Bill Bridges, came aboard in midseason and added some muscle to a group that, like the 2015 Warriors, was generally lauded for its finesse.
“Everybody thought I was going against conventional wisdom until we ended up winning, then everybody thought it was the thing to do,” Attles said of using so many players on a regular basis. “There was no ego; they were a team that came to play every night. That was a team that any coach at any level would have been happy coaching. ”
Advertisement
But the coach was Attles, the fire-breathing tough guy, the Warrior for life. In all, he has spent 55 uninterrupted seasons with the only N.B.A. organization he has ever known. A backcourt star who stands only 6 feet, Attles played his high school ball in Newark, his college ball at North Carolina A&T and then was selected by the Warriors in the fifth round of the 1960 draft when the franchise was still in Philadelphia.
Initially, Attles did not intend to try out for the Warriors, figuring he didn’t have much of a chance as a fifth-rounder. A lesser entity, the Eastern League, beckoned. But a friend kept nagging Attles to give the Warriors a shot. Finally, he relented.
“When I graduated from North Carolina A&T the first thing on my mind was to teach school in Newark and play in the Eastern League on the weekend,” he said. “I didn’t think I was going to be with the Warriors for a year. I planned to go to training camp for a week.”
Photo
Attles during a ceremony in March commemorating the Warriors’ 1975 championship. Attles, the team’s coach that season, has spent 55 years with the franchise. Credit Jeff Chiu/Associated Press
Dwight D. Eisenhower was finishing out his second term in the White House when Attles first made the Warriors. John F. Kennedy was president in 1962 when the Warriors, and Attles, moved to San Francisco.
Richard M. Nixon was president when Attles was named player-coach of the Warriors in 1969; Gerald Ford was president when the Warriors won the N.B.A. title; and Ronald Reagan was running the country when Attles stepped down as coach after the 1982-83 season. But Attles remained a Warrior — as a general manager, a scout, a team ambassador — as one Bush followed Reagan and another followed Bill Clinton and Barack Obama became the current occupant at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
Obama has a year and a half left in his presidency. Attles? He can stay with the Warriors as long as he likes.
A year after Attles coached the Warriors to the title, they made it back to the Western Conference finals, and lost. Until now, the franchise never got that far again in the postseason. And from the 1977-78 season through 1982-83, Attles could not find a way to steer an increasingly depleted Warriors team into the playoffs. After that season, Attles decided that he had had enough, telling the colorful owner Franklin Mieuli that he was leaving.
“We were losing players because of financial reasons,” Attles recalled. Wilkes, who had been the N.B.A.’s rookie of the year in 1975, would leave for the lure of the Los Angeles Lakers, Barry would go to Houston. Mieuli just did not have the resources to keep talented players.
“I really wanted to stay with Golden State,” Wilkes recalled. “But this was at a time when the N.B.A. was changing from owners who owned a team as a hobby to big business. Our owner was a well-intentioned guy, but I don’t think he had the funds.”
All these years later, Wilkes, who won three titles with the Lakers, said he was “really happy and excited” to see his original team with a shot at another title.
As for Attles, the best part about this experience is that he may get to be part of another championship and bring his whole basketball life full circle.
Email: wcr@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Warrior for Life Is Bridge to Lone Bay Area Title . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
Rockets' Howard won't be suspended for Game 5 vs Warriors Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HJzfbd
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Rockets' Howard won't be suspended for Game 5 vs Warriors
AP 8:25 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) — Houston Rockets center Dwight Howard will not be suspended for Game 5 of the Western Conference finals against the Golden State Warriors after the NBA decided to uphold his flagrant 1 foul.
NBA President of Basketball Operations Rod Thorn said in a statement Tuesday night that Howard was trying to free himself from Andrew Bogut when Howard "recklessly hit him in the face with an open hand." Thorn said the contact was deemed unnecessary by game officials, who were aided by replay review, and the league doesn't "see a reason to modify that call."
Howard received a flagrant 1 foul early in the third quarter after throwing his left elbow at Bogut's head — connecting with the back of his hand — after the Warriors center made contact with him. Howard could've been suspended for Wednesday night's game by accumulation of flagrant foul points if the NBA upgraded the call to a flagrant 2.
Howard said after the game he was reacting to Bogut's contact and wasn't trying to hurt him. Told Howard would be suspended for Game 5 if the NBA upgraded the call to a flagrant 2, Bogut said he doubted that would happen then.
The decision comes with the Warriors leading the series 3-1 and after Atlanta's Al Horford and Cleveland's J.R. Smith recently received stricter penalties for contact above the shoulders.
Horford was assessed a flagrant 2 foul and ejected from Game 3 of the Eastern Conference finals on Sunday night for striking Cavaliers guard Matthew Dellavedova above his shoulders late in the first half. The two got tangled on the floor while scrambling for a loose ball, and as Dellavedova was rolling up on his right knee, Horford brought his right arm down hard and struck the side of the scrappy Australian's head.
A few weeks earlier, the NBA suspended Smith the first two games of the East semifinals against Chicago without pay after he swung backward and smacked Boston's Jae Crowder in the face in the final game of the first round. Smith was ejected and Crowder sprained a knee ligament.
Stu Jackson, who ruled on such matters when he was previously the NBA executive vice president of basketball operations, wrote on Twitter that he was "baffled" by the league's decision not to upgrade Howard's flagrant.
"Hard contact to face, reckless, released arm and flailed for free head shot and history," Jackson tweeted.
Before the league announced the ruling, Rockets coach Kevin McHale argued that Howard was retaliating to the contact made by Bogut and the flagrant foul should not be upgraded.
"I guess the one thing we'll learn is we should be the first one to grab," McHale quipped.
Warriors coach Steve Kerr declined to say whether he thought Howard's flagrant should be upgraded, but he thought the contact was clearly above the shoulders.
___
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52

