NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Coach Al Attles and the Warriors before Game 4 against the Washington Bullets in 1975. Credit Walter Iooss Jr./Sports Illustrated, via Getty Images
Advertisement
Shortly after the Houston Rockets had defeated Golden State in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals on Monday, Al Attles was back in his hotel room, preparing for the trip back to California.
For Warriors fans, the postseason had suddenly been turned on its head, if only for a day. The Warriors had lost a chance to sweep the series, and Stephen Curry, the N.B.A.’s golden boy, had taken a nasty spill in the second quarter, raising some initial concerns of a possible concussion that might keep him out of action for a while.
Curry eventually returned to the game, and presumably will start Game 5 in Oakland, Calif., on Wednesday night, when the Warriors will again try to close out the Rockets and advance to the N.B.A. finals for the first time in 40 years.
“You have to play the game, and being at home doesn’t guarantee anything,” Attles said in a telephone interview. “But I like our chances.”
Related Coverage
Photo
Attles (16), with the San Francisco Warriors, guarding the St. Louis Hawks’ Joe Caldwell in 1968. Attles was drafted in 1960 when the Warriors were in Philadelphia. Credit Associated Press
Attles was the head coach of the Warriors when on May 25, 40 years ago, they completed a stunning four-game sweep of the powerhouse Washington Bullets to win the franchise’s only title in its more than 50 years in the Bay Area.
Those Bullets were very much like the current Warriors, dominating from the start of the season. They went into the 1975 playoffs with a 60-22 record, a lot better than the 48-34 record Attles had put together with a squad that had one star, Rick Barry; a solid core of veterans; and two standout rookies, Phil Smith and Jamaal Wilkes. But the Warriors knew how to sneak up on people.
“Nobody expected much of us and felt that we were just lucky to even reach the finals,” Attles recalled. But his players, he said, “never believed” the low estimations others had of them.
“They couldn’t wait to get on the floor, then one day we looked up and we had won the championship,” Attles said.
As the Warriors’ coach that season, Attles developed an unusual system. His team went nine, sometimes 10 players deep, which was more than normal. Clifford Ray was the center. Barry and Wilkes played in the frontcourt. Butch Beard and Charles Johnson — nicknamed Jack Johnson — were the starting backcourt.
Photo
Attles in 1968, when he was a point guard with the San Francisco Warriors. Credit Associated Press
Attles brought Smith, Jeff Mullins, George Johnson, Derrek Dickey and Charles Dudley off the bench. An 11th player, Bill Bridges, came aboard in midseason and added some muscle to a group that, like the 2015 Warriors, was generally lauded for its finesse.
“Everybody thought I was going against conventional wisdom until we ended up winning, then everybody thought it was the thing to do,” Attles said of using so many players on a regular basis. “There was no ego; they were a team that came to play every night. That was a team that any coach at any level would have been happy coaching. ”
Advertisement
But the coach was Attles, the fire-breathing tough guy, the Warrior for life. In all, he has spent 55 uninterrupted seasons with the only N.B.A. organization he has ever known. A backcourt star who stands only 6 feet, Attles played his high school ball in Newark, his college ball at North Carolina A&T and then was selected by the Warriors in the fifth round of the 1960 draft when the franchise was still in Philadelphia.
Initially, Attles did not intend to try out for the Warriors, figuring he didn’t have much of a chance as a fifth-rounder. A lesser entity, the Eastern League, beckoned. But a friend kept nagging Attles to give the Warriors a shot. Finally, he relented.
“When I graduated from North Carolina A&T the first thing on my mind was to teach school in Newark and play in the Eastern League on the weekend,” he said. “I didn’t think I was going to be with the Warriors for a year. I planned to go to training camp for a week.”
Photo
Attles during a ceremony in March commemorating the Warriors’ 1975 championship. Attles, the team’s coach that season, has spent 55 years with the franchise. Credit Jeff Chiu/Associated Press
Dwight D. Eisenhower was finishing out his second term in the White House when Attles first made the Warriors. John F. Kennedy was president in 1962 when the Warriors, and Attles, moved to San Francisco.
Richard M. Nixon was president when Attles was named player-coach of the Warriors in 1969; Gerald Ford was president when the Warriors won the N.B.A. title; and Ronald Reagan was running the country when Attles stepped down as coach after the 1982-83 season. But Attles remained a Warrior — as a general manager, a scout, a team ambassador — as one Bush followed Reagan and another followed Bill Clinton and Barack Obama became the current occupant at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
Obama has a year and a half left in his presidency. Attles? He can stay with the Warriors as long as he likes.
A year after Attles coached the Warriors to the title, they made it back to the Western Conference finals, and lost. Until now, the franchise never got that far again in the postseason. And from the 1977-78 season through 1982-83, Attles could not find a way to steer an increasingly depleted Warriors team into the playoffs. After that season, Attles decided that he had had enough, telling the colorful owner Franklin Mieuli that he was leaving.
“We were losing players because of financial reasons,” Attles recalled. Wilkes, who had been the N.B.A.’s rookie of the year in 1975, would leave for the lure of the Los Angeles Lakers, Barry would go to Houston. Mieuli just did not have the resources to keep talented players.
“I really wanted to stay with Golden State,” Wilkes recalled. “But this was at a time when the N.B.A. was changing from owners who owned a team as a hobby to big business. Our owner was a well-intentioned guy, but I don’t think he had the funds.”
All these years later, Wilkes, who won three titles with the Lakers, said he was “really happy and excited” to see his original team with a shot at another title.
As for Attles, the best part about this experience is that he may get to be part of another championship and bring his whole basketball life full circle.
Email: wcr@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Warrior for Life Is Bridge to Lone Bay Area Title . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


By Elliott Almond
When Stephen Curry's head hit the hardwood in Game 4 of the Western Conference final Monday, it was more than just a nightmarish moment for the Warriors and their fans. It has become the latest chapter in the ongoing debate over when someone should be cleared to get back on the playing field after head trauma.
The decision to allow the Warriors star to re-enter Game 4 in Houston became a point of contention Tuesday, the day after a freakish midair tumble called back into question the effectiveness of standardized concussion testing.
"We know those tests are imperfect," said Chris Nowinski, executive director of the Sports Legacy Institute and a doctoral candidate in behavioral neuroscience at Boston University School of Medicine.
Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry (30) flips upside down in the second quarter of Game 4 of the NBA Western Conference finals at the Toyota Center in Houston, Texas, on Monday, May 25, 2015.    (Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group)
"Was it worth the risk to put him back in or should we have given him 24 hours to see if he is clear?"
Some in the sports medicine community raised similar concerns, including Cindy Chang, formerly Cal's head team physician and founder of the California Concussion Coalition.
"You can't always tell how bad a concussion will be until 24 hours later," she said. "We all saw the injury on TV and saw how shocked and stunned he appeared after the injury."
Chang, an associate clinical professor in UC San Francisco's orthopedics department, said the next day could be telling if Curry were to acknowledge suffering from symptoms related to the fall.
Advertisement
"There's a lot at stake," she said. "That's what makes it hard to be a team physician. The athletes' interpretation of risk is very different at the higher level of competition."
Chang added that if such an injury occurred at a youth event "no question they should not go back into the game."
The director of the Stanford Concussion Center said Tuesday team physicians made the right decision in allowing Curry to return to action.
Jamshid Ghajar, a clinical professor of neurosurgery who is leading a major study for diagnosis and treatment guidelines for head injury, said sideline evaluations are difficult to make because of a lack of tools available that provide real answers. But he added that the Warriors' physicians, including colleague William Maloney, a Stanford professor of orthopedic surgery, handled the situation appropriately based on the reports he received.
Curry, the NBA's Most Valuable Player, rolled over the shoulder of Houston's Trevor Ariza with 5:52 left in the second quarter of Golden State's 128-115 defeat. The Warriors guard free fell before violently banging his head on the floor -- a scene replayed over and over in slow motion by ESPN.
Curry, who did not speak to reporters Tuesday, said after the game that he felt fine, despite missing seven of his 11 shots after returning, including his first three as the Rockets' lead grew back to 15. (They were only up by six when Curry re-entered.)
Concussion experts said it's difficult to evaluate the real effects after such a fall because the study of brain trauma remains in its infant stages.
"We don't know what a concussion is," said Ghajar, whose study involves all Stanford's athletes. As a result, sideline physicians can't be "expected to know what this condition is when nobody else knows what it is."
Generally speaking, a concussion is a change in brain function after the head suffers some kind of force.
Ghajar said a nagging problem with current concussion protocol testing is the lack of a way to measure the ability to focus.
Head injuries have become a major issue in the NFL and NHL because brutal hits to the head are endemic. It has not been much of an issue in the NBA, which implemented a concussion policy in 2011 with standardized language similar to other American professional sports. For example, a player showing signs of concussion symptoms is prohibited from playing, and can't return until passing tests that include memory, awareness and balance assessments.
Warriors physicians put Curry through the NBA's concussion examination twice before clearing him to play.
Warriors general manager Bob Myers said the team had no reason to hold Curry out after the examinations. But some questioned the wisdom of letting the team's star continue when Curry missed the basket altogether on his first shot upon returning.
"He shoots an air ball," Myers said. "It'd be one thing if he'd went out there at halftime and warmed up and then did that."
Nowinski, also co-director of the Boston University's CTE Center that studies traumatic brain injury, said most fans will move on if Curry shows no aftereffects Wednesday in Game 5 at Oracle Arena. But if the star reports symptoms that prohibit him from playing, "this will be a watershed moment," he added.
Questions also will linger should Curry have an off night in Game 5, a byproduct of the increased public awareness.
"It is great to see the average fan is educated that it is a real risk when there is a big hit to the head," Nowinski said.
Contact Elliott Almond at 408-920-5865. Follow him at Twitter.com/elliottalmond .

