NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Coach Al Attles and the Warriors before Game 4 against the Washington Bullets in 1975. Credit Walter Iooss Jr./Sports Illustrated, via Getty Images
Advertisement
Shortly after the Houston Rockets had defeated Golden State in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals on Monday, Al Attles was back in his hotel room, preparing for the trip back to California.
For Warriors fans, the postseason had suddenly been turned on its head, if only for a day. The Warriors had lost a chance to sweep the series, and Stephen Curry, the N.B.A.’s golden boy, had taken a nasty spill in the second quarter, raising some initial concerns of a possible concussion that might keep him out of action for a while.
Curry eventually returned to the game, and presumably will start Game 5 in Oakland, Calif., on Wednesday night, when the Warriors will again try to close out the Rockets and advance to the N.B.A. finals for the first time in 40 years.
“You have to play the game, and being at home doesn’t guarantee anything,” Attles said in a telephone interview. “But I like our chances.”
Related Coverage
Photo
Attles (16), with the San Francisco Warriors, guarding the St. Louis Hawks’ Joe Caldwell in 1968. Attles was drafted in 1960 when the Warriors were in Philadelphia. Credit Associated Press
Attles was the head coach of the Warriors when on May 25, 40 years ago, they completed a stunning four-game sweep of the powerhouse Washington Bullets to win the franchise’s only title in its more than 50 years in the Bay Area.
Those Bullets were very much like the current Warriors, dominating from the start of the season. They went into the 1975 playoffs with a 60-22 record, a lot better than the 48-34 record Attles had put together with a squad that had one star, Rick Barry; a solid core of veterans; and two standout rookies, Phil Smith and Jamaal Wilkes. But the Warriors knew how to sneak up on people.
“Nobody expected much of us and felt that we were just lucky to even reach the finals,” Attles recalled. But his players, he said, “never believed” the low estimations others had of them.
“They couldn’t wait to get on the floor, then one day we looked up and we had won the championship,” Attles said.
As the Warriors’ coach that season, Attles developed an unusual system. His team went nine, sometimes 10 players deep, which was more than normal. Clifford Ray was the center. Barry and Wilkes played in the frontcourt. Butch Beard and Charles Johnson — nicknamed Jack Johnson — were the starting backcourt.
Photo
Attles in 1968, when he was a point guard with the San Francisco Warriors. Credit Associated Press
Attles brought Smith, Jeff Mullins, George Johnson, Derrek Dickey and Charles Dudley off the bench. An 11th player, Bill Bridges, came aboard in midseason and added some muscle to a group that, like the 2015 Warriors, was generally lauded for its finesse.
“Everybody thought I was going against conventional wisdom until we ended up winning, then everybody thought it was the thing to do,” Attles said of using so many players on a regular basis. “There was no ego; they were a team that came to play every night. That was a team that any coach at any level would have been happy coaching. ”
Advertisement
But the coach was Attles, the fire-breathing tough guy, the Warrior for life. In all, he has spent 55 uninterrupted seasons with the only N.B.A. organization he has ever known. A backcourt star who stands only 6 feet, Attles played his high school ball in Newark, his college ball at North Carolina A&T and then was selected by the Warriors in the fifth round of the 1960 draft when the franchise was still in Philadelphia.
Initially, Attles did not intend to try out for the Warriors, figuring he didn’t have much of a chance as a fifth-rounder. A lesser entity, the Eastern League, beckoned. But a friend kept nagging Attles to give the Warriors a shot. Finally, he relented.
“When I graduated from North Carolina A&T the first thing on my mind was to teach school in Newark and play in the Eastern League on the weekend,” he said. “I didn’t think I was going to be with the Warriors for a year. I planned to go to training camp for a week.”
Photo
Attles during a ceremony in March commemorating the Warriors’ 1975 championship. Attles, the team’s coach that season, has spent 55 years with the franchise. Credit Jeff Chiu/Associated Press
Dwight D. Eisenhower was finishing out his second term in the White House when Attles first made the Warriors. John F. Kennedy was president in 1962 when the Warriors, and Attles, moved to San Francisco.
Richard M. Nixon was president when Attles was named player-coach of the Warriors in 1969; Gerald Ford was president when the Warriors won the N.B.A. title; and Ronald Reagan was running the country when Attles stepped down as coach after the 1982-83 season. But Attles remained a Warrior — as a general manager, a scout, a team ambassador — as one Bush followed Reagan and another followed Bill Clinton and Barack Obama became the current occupant at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
Obama has a year and a half left in his presidency. Attles? He can stay with the Warriors as long as he likes.
A year after Attles coached the Warriors to the title, they made it back to the Western Conference finals, and lost. Until now, the franchise never got that far again in the postseason. And from the 1977-78 season through 1982-83, Attles could not find a way to steer an increasingly depleted Warriors team into the playoffs. After that season, Attles decided that he had had enough, telling the colorful owner Franklin Mieuli that he was leaving.
“We were losing players because of financial reasons,” Attles recalled. Wilkes, who had been the N.B.A.’s rookie of the year in 1975, would leave for the lure of the Los Angeles Lakers, Barry would go to Houston. Mieuli just did not have the resources to keep talented players.
“I really wanted to stay with Golden State,” Wilkes recalled. “But this was at a time when the N.B.A. was changing from owners who owned a team as a hobby to big business. Our owner was a well-intentioned guy, but I don’t think he had the funds.”
All these years later, Wilkes, who won three titles with the Lakers, said he was “really happy and excited” to see his original team with a shot at another title.
As for Attles, the best part about this experience is that he may get to be part of another championship and bring his whole basketball life full circle.
Email: wcr@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Warrior for Life Is Bridge to Lone Bay Area Title . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Posted on May 26, 2015 | By Ultimate Rockets
Share this:
By Jonathan Feigen and Jenny Dial Creech
Rockets center Dwight Howard was cleared to play in Game 5 of the Western Conference finals after the NBA ruled that his flagrant foul in Game 3 would not be upgraded.
Howard was assessed a category-1 flagrant foul for striking Warriors center Andrew Bogut as they headed up the floor in the third quarter on Monday. The NBA ruled Bogut was holding Howard and that Howard was trying to break free. Had the NBA upgraded the foul to a category-2 flagrant foul, Howard would have automatically been suspended for the next game.
A catergory-2 flagrant foul does not come with an automatic suspension but because Howard already had received two flagrant fouls in the playoffs, he would have exceeded the limit.
“The verdict is we’re going to leave it as is,” Rod Thorn, the NBA president of basketball operations said. “It was a very close call, but when you put everything together after the interviews and after watching the tape, Bogut was holding Howard’s arm. Howard extricated his arm, sort of flailed his arm backwards and ended up hitting Bogut in the face with the back of his hand.
“He freed his arm. He clearly flailed his arm back, is the term I would use. He made contact with an open hand. It was a very close call because he made contact above the shoulders. The flagrant-1 stands.”
While the play and ensuing call were immediately controversial, Howard didn’t feel like it was as bad as it seemed.
“I don’t mean to do anything intentional, to hurt anybody on the floor,” Howard said after the game on Monday.
He did however acknowledge that he has to keep his emotions in check on the court.
“My reaction was to just try to get him off me, but I can’t react that way,” Howard said. “I just have to do my best to get away from the situation as quick as possible.”
It’s nothing new for Howard, who has had his emotions get the best of him on many occasions throughout his career.
“I’m a very emotional player,” Howard said. “I know I have to keep my cool, but when you are out there and you want to win so bad, that can get the best of me sometimes.”
After Monday night’s game, veteran guard Jason Terry talked to Howard about keeping his composure.
“Yeah, he is absolutely right,” Howard said. “Everything is on the line and I’m super emotional when it comes to playing and wanting to win and my teammates understand how much I carre about our season and what we are trying to accomplish. So they’re always reminding me to keep my head, even though guys are doing whatever they can to frustrate you.
“I’ve just got to try to stay mentally strong.”
Because Howard has three flagrant fouls (all category 1) in the playoffs, he would be suspended for the next game with another flagrant foul, whether a category-1 or category-2. He also has six technical fouls and would be suspended for a game with his next technical foul.
Rockets coach Kevin McHale had argued that he was not convinced the foul should have even been a flagrant foul.
“I don’t know if that’s a flagrant,” McHale said. “He just tried to get him off him. Bogut was grabbing him and as always, the second foul gets called. He didn’t turn around and look at the guy like ‘I’m going to…’ He swiped his arm back because he felt Bogut’s grabbing him.
“In our league, it’s been that way since I first got in the league. Usually, they call the second one all the time. I guess the first thing we’ll learn is we should be the first one to grab.”
Warriors coach Steve Kerr would not answer questions about whether he thought Howard should be suspended, but he was clear that he believed Howard struck Bogut above the shoulders, the distinction that leads to a category-2 flagrant foul.
“I mean, he elbowed him in the head, so I don’t really know what the rule is,” Kerr said. “I’m not sure anyone really knows what the rule is. Seriously, it just seems like every case is a little different. There doesn’t seem to be a definitive answer, and there is a lot of gray area in all these plays, so I understand that. I didn’t really know what to expect. I saw one replay on the board. He definitely elbowed Andrew in the head, and then it’s up to the league to decide, and the officials to decide what to do from that point, so they went flagrant 1, and we just kept playing. I didn’t spend any time thinking about it.”
Hey Andrew Bogut, watch out for your face: http://t.co/OXfL4mOYzG https://t.co/fVCARvxfz7
Tags:
Rockets in 4
Warriors in 4
Rockets in 5
Warriors in 5
Rockets in 6
Warriors in 6
Rockets in 7
Warriors in 7
 Loading ...
Search
Subscribe
Sign up now!
NBA Standings
Search Vehicles
Dealer Spotlight
Browse previous blog posts by month and year of entry. You'll see all the posts for that time period.
Select Month
Show Earlier
Send us a correction!
Did we make a mistake? Complete the form to let us know.
0/1000 characters
Send us a tip or link!
Want to share a story idea with us? Know something we don't? Complete the form below to send us a news tip.
0/1000 characters
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

