NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Coach Al Attles and the Warriors before Game 4 against the Washington Bullets in 1975. Credit Walter Iooss Jr./Sports Illustrated, via Getty Images
Advertisement
Shortly after the Houston Rockets had defeated Golden State in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals on Monday, Al Attles was back in his hotel room, preparing for the trip back to California.
For Warriors fans, the postseason had suddenly been turned on its head, if only for a day. The Warriors had lost a chance to sweep the series, and Stephen Curry, the N.B.A.’s golden boy, had taken a nasty spill in the second quarter, raising some initial concerns of a possible concussion that might keep him out of action for a while.
Curry eventually returned to the game, and presumably will start Game 5 in Oakland, Calif., on Wednesday night, when the Warriors will again try to close out the Rockets and advance to the N.B.A. finals for the first time in 40 years.
“You have to play the game, and being at home doesn’t guarantee anything,” Attles said in a telephone interview. “But I like our chances.”
Related Coverage
Photo
Attles (16), with the San Francisco Warriors, guarding the St. Louis Hawks’ Joe Caldwell in 1968. Attles was drafted in 1960 when the Warriors were in Philadelphia. Credit Associated Press
Attles was the head coach of the Warriors when on May 25, 40 years ago, they completed a stunning four-game sweep of the powerhouse Washington Bullets to win the franchise’s only title in its more than 50 years in the Bay Area.
Those Bullets were very much like the current Warriors, dominating from the start of the season. They went into the 1975 playoffs with a 60-22 record, a lot better than the 48-34 record Attles had put together with a squad that had one star, Rick Barry; a solid core of veterans; and two standout rookies, Phil Smith and Jamaal Wilkes. But the Warriors knew how to sneak up on people.
“Nobody expected much of us and felt that we were just lucky to even reach the finals,” Attles recalled. But his players, he said, “never believed” the low estimations others had of them.
“They couldn’t wait to get on the floor, then one day we looked up and we had won the championship,” Attles said.
As the Warriors’ coach that season, Attles developed an unusual system. His team went nine, sometimes 10 players deep, which was more than normal. Clifford Ray was the center. Barry and Wilkes played in the frontcourt. Butch Beard and Charles Johnson — nicknamed Jack Johnson — were the starting backcourt.
Photo
Attles in 1968, when he was a point guard with the San Francisco Warriors. Credit Associated Press
Attles brought Smith, Jeff Mullins, George Johnson, Derrek Dickey and Charles Dudley off the bench. An 11th player, Bill Bridges, came aboard in midseason and added some muscle to a group that, like the 2015 Warriors, was generally lauded for its finesse.
“Everybody thought I was going against conventional wisdom until we ended up winning, then everybody thought it was the thing to do,” Attles said of using so many players on a regular basis. “There was no ego; they were a team that came to play every night. That was a team that any coach at any level would have been happy coaching. ”
Advertisement
But the coach was Attles, the fire-breathing tough guy, the Warrior for life. In all, he has spent 55 uninterrupted seasons with the only N.B.A. organization he has ever known. A backcourt star who stands only 6 feet, Attles played his high school ball in Newark, his college ball at North Carolina A&T and then was selected by the Warriors in the fifth round of the 1960 draft when the franchise was still in Philadelphia.
Initially, Attles did not intend to try out for the Warriors, figuring he didn’t have much of a chance as a fifth-rounder. A lesser entity, the Eastern League, beckoned. But a friend kept nagging Attles to give the Warriors a shot. Finally, he relented.
“When I graduated from North Carolina A&T the first thing on my mind was to teach school in Newark and play in the Eastern League on the weekend,” he said. “I didn’t think I was going to be with the Warriors for a year. I planned to go to training camp for a week.”
Photo
Attles during a ceremony in March commemorating the Warriors’ 1975 championship. Attles, the team’s coach that season, has spent 55 years with the franchise. Credit Jeff Chiu/Associated Press
Dwight D. Eisenhower was finishing out his second term in the White House when Attles first made the Warriors. John F. Kennedy was president in 1962 when the Warriors, and Attles, moved to San Francisco.
Richard M. Nixon was president when Attles was named player-coach of the Warriors in 1969; Gerald Ford was president when the Warriors won the N.B.A. title; and Ronald Reagan was running the country when Attles stepped down as coach after the 1982-83 season. But Attles remained a Warrior — as a general manager, a scout, a team ambassador — as one Bush followed Reagan and another followed Bill Clinton and Barack Obama became the current occupant at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
Obama has a year and a half left in his presidency. Attles? He can stay with the Warriors as long as he likes.
A year after Attles coached the Warriors to the title, they made it back to the Western Conference finals, and lost. Until now, the franchise never got that far again in the postseason. And from the 1977-78 season through 1982-83, Attles could not find a way to steer an increasingly depleted Warriors team into the playoffs. After that season, Attles decided that he had had enough, telling the colorful owner Franklin Mieuli that he was leaving.
“We were losing players because of financial reasons,” Attles recalled. Wilkes, who had been the N.B.A.’s rookie of the year in 1975, would leave for the lure of the Los Angeles Lakers, Barry would go to Houston. Mieuli just did not have the resources to keep talented players.
“I really wanted to stay with Golden State,” Wilkes recalled. “But this was at a time when the N.B.A. was changing from owners who owned a team as a hobby to big business. Our owner was a well-intentioned guy, but I don’t think he had the funds.”
All these years later, Wilkes, who won three titles with the Lakers, said he was “really happy and excited” to see his original team with a shot at another title.
As for Attles, the best part about this experience is that he may get to be part of another championship and bring his whole basketball life full circle.
Email: wcr@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Warrior for Life Is Bridge to Lone Bay Area Title . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


James Harden, Andrew Bogut
Ronald Martinez / AP
Houston Rockets guard James Harden shoots over Golden State Warriors center Andrew Bogut during the second half of Game 4 of the Western Conference finals on Monday.
Houston Rockets guard James Harden shoots over Golden State Warriors center Andrew Bogut during the second half of Game 4 of the Western Conference finals on Monday.
(Ronald Martinez / AP)
Golden State has a 3-1 lead in West finals, but Houston is coming off a big victory
Stephen Curry says he will play after a hard fall in Game 4
Somewhere, Chris Paul is slowly shaking his head, all too aware that the Houston Rockets are never quite out of it when you think they are.
It's too early to say the Rockets have the Golden State Warriors exactly where they want them, but Houston yanked the playoff carpet out from under the Clippers this month, becoming the ninth NBA team to come back from a 3-1 deficit and win a series.
They apparently decided that wasn't a tough enough deficit so they lost their first three games to Golden State before waking up Monday with a 128-115 victory in the Western Conference finals. Game 5 is Wednesday at Golden State.
But the Rockets have been great when things aren't good, and that makes them a little dangerous. Just a little. They still have to win the next three games, two of which would be at Golden State, already a shift from the Clippers series in which two of the final three were in Houston.
Plus, an important distinction, Golden State is not the Clippers. The Warriors screamed to the top seeding in the Western Conference playoffs, finishing 11 games ahead of the Clippers and Houston while going 39-2 at home.
The Rockets shrug. And try to sound fierce at the same time.
"We're going to the lion's den, but we feel like we can overcome," Houston center Dwight Howard said. "We became closer as a team by going through what we went through in the last series, and we're back in that same position. We've got to appreciate being able to go through this journey together … and continue to look at the big picture, which is to win a championship."
Howard will not be suspended for Game 5 after the NBA decided to uphold his flagrant 1 foul.
Here's a slightly unsettling thought for Golden State: Houston actually played pretty well on the road in Games 1 and 2.
The Rockets lost by a combined five points, including a 99-98 defeat in Game 2 when James Harden couldn't get off a last-second shot, fumbling the ball after a double-team by Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson.
"We've been there twice and we've had opportunities to win," Harden said after scoring 45 points in Game 4. "We've got to play the same way."
A smart start would be duplicating how they won Monday. A 45-point first quarter probably won't happen again for the Rockets, but it wouldn't be the worst idea to prevent Golden State from getting hot early.
"You very seldom win the game in the first few minutes but you can kind of set a tone," McHale said. "We've got to get ahead in Golden State and make them chase us — punch, counterpunch, and hopefully you can make the last run."
It's what Memphis did in winning Game 2 of the West semifinals at Golden State, 97-90. The Grizzlies forced 20 turnovers and held the Warriors' starters to three for 22 from three-point range. It was Golden State's first loss at Oracle Arena in three months. They are 4-1 there in the playoffs.
Curry said he would play for sure in Game 5 after falling hard in the second quarter of Game 4. He sustained a head contusion after biting on Trevor Ariza's pump fake and bouncing off him onto the court, absorbing the blow with his head and back.
Curry passed tests for concussion symptoms and returned midway through the third quarter. He wasn't quite MVP-caliber, finishing with 23 points on seven-for-18 shooting, but earned the respect of teammates.
"No pun intended, he is a warrior," Warriors forward Harrison Barnes said.
Houston General Manager Daryl Morey tried to create some inspiration of his own by posting a video on his Twitter account not long after the Rockets were hammered at home by Golden State, 115-80, in Game 3. It was a clip of the 2004 American League Championship Series, specifically Dave Roberts stealing a base for the Boston Red Sox.
It was simple on the surface yet deep in sports symbolism.
Roberts' stolen base sparked a come-from-behind rally that game against the Yankees and, three victories later, the Red Sox became the first baseball team to successfully win a series after being down three games to none.
The Warriors have their own past demons to ward off, failing to win a championship since 1975. They want to end the series Wednesday as much as the Rockets want to extend it to Game 6 in Houston.
"We just don't want to [go] back to Houston," Thompson said. "We want to go to the Finals for the first time in 40 years or whatever."
Comments

