  TheJournal.ie uses cookies. By continuing to browse this site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Click here to find out more »
http://jrnl.ie/2029936
‘A deranged pilot flying his nation into the rocks’ – Obama compared to Andreas Lubitz
Michele Bachman said the president’s deal with Iran has damned the souls of 300 million Americans.
10 hours ago 19,399 Views 69 Comments
FORMER REPUBLICAN CONGRESSWOMAN and Presidential candidate Michele Bachman has compared President Obama to Germanwings co-pilot Andreas Lubitz.
Tea Party favourite Bachmann says that Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran has made him “for the 300 million souls of the United States what Andreas Lubitz was for the 150 souls on the Germanwings flight”.
She described Obama as “a deranged pilot flying his entire nation into the rocks.”
“After the fact, among the smouldering remains of American cities, the shocked survivors will ask, why did he do it?,” she asked in a post on her Facebook page .
The nuclear deal which was reached yesterday after marathon talks in Switzerland, was hailed by world leaders as a major breakthrough in the 12-year standoff between Iran and the West, which has long feared Tehran wants to build a nuclear bomb.
Bachmann was a Congresswoman for seven years before announcing last year that she would not seek re-election. 
The former tax attorney ran for the Presidency in 2012 but her candidacy was never likely to be successful.
Iran
Obama though is facing significant opposition to the Iran deal on Capitol Hill with opponents saying he made too many concessions.
“If Congress kills this deal, not based on expert analysis and without offering any reasonable alternative, then it’s the United States that will be blamed for failure of diplomacy,” Obama said Thursday.
Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.
Just click Like.
Embed this post
To embed this post, copy the code below on your site
600px wide
400px wide
300px wide
<iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="http://www.thejournal.ie/http://www.thejournal.ie/obama-bachmann-germanwings-2029936-Apr2015/?embedpost=2029936&width=300&height=460" ></iframe>
Email “‘A deranged pilot flying his nation into the rocks’ – Obama compared to Andreas Lubitz ”.
Your Email
Recipient's Email
Submit
Feedback on “‘A deranged pilot flying his nation into the rocks’ – Obama compared to Andreas Lubitz ”.
Your Feedback
Please give full details of the problem with the comment...
Your Email
Trending Opinions
1
2
1
2
3
1
2
1
2
Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2015 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.
TheJournal.ie is a full participating member of the Press Council of Ireland and supports                  the Office of the Press Ombudsman.  This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the                  press, offers readers a quick, fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may                  have in relation to articles that appear on our pages.  To contact the Office of the                  Press Ombudsman Lo-Call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie
Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .
News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .
Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
Please log in to comment
Please log in with facebook to Share
Please log in
Message:
Email Address
Submit
Comment without having to login
More features coming soon...

