Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
White House: States of emergency are just formalities
There are 32 declared states of national emergency in the United States, but the White House says they're just formalities.
Post to Facebook
White House: States of emergency are just formalities There are 32 declared states of national emergency in the United States, but the White House says they're just formalities. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1ygbVhC
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
47
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
White House: States of emergency are just formalities
Gregory Korte , USA TODAY 12:33 p.m. EDT April 9, 2015
President Obama waves from Air Force One before departing from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland Wednesday. Obama is heading for a visit to Jamaica and Panama.
(Photo: Mandel Ngan, AFP/Getty Images)
WASHINGTON — President Obama has declared or renewed 32 different states of national emergency during his presidency, allowing him to use extraordinary power to impose sanctions, freeze assets or blockade other nations.
Those emergency declarations come with ominous-sounding warnings that foreign governments, terrorist groups or criminal organizations pose an  "unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security" of the United States.
But there's no need to be alarmed, White House officials said this week. Those dire warnings are really just formalities.
The wording of presidential emergency declarations has become an international issue as President Obama visits Jamaica and Panama this week to meet with Caribbean and South American leaders. The "extraordinary threat" language has become so routine that it usually goes unnoticed — until it backfired on the Obama administration with Venezuelan sanctions.
Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro denounced the state of emergency Obama declared against his country last month, saying it was an imperialist attempt to interfere in Venezuelan affairs. Maduro seized emergency powers of his own, clamped down on opposition parties and won a resolution from the Union of South American Nations condemning Obama's order as an "interventionist threat to the sovereignty" of Venezuela.
But that wasn't the intent, Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes said this week.
"This is a language that we use in executive orders around the world," Rhodes said. "So the United States does not believe that Venezuela poses some threat to our national security. We, frankly, just have a framework for how we formalize these executive orders."
The language is necessary because a president needs to declare a state of emergency in order to impose sanctions or block the assets of foreign governments or officials under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act. And to declare an emergency, the president must find that there's an "extraordinary threat" to national security.
"This is how we describe the process of naming sanctions, and there are 20 to 30 other sanctions programs we have," Jen Psaki, then the State Department spokeswoman, explained to reporters last month. "I understand people look at the context of what's happening on the ground, but it's consistent with how we announce and how we describe putting sanctions and putting these executive orders in place."
Presidential scholars say the use of one-size-fits-all emergency declarations is an abuse of the emergency powers Congress gives the president.
"Declaring a state of national emergency should not be done through pro forma statements," said Chris Edelson of American University, author of Emergency Presidential Power: From the Drafting of the Constitution to the War on Terror. "The president triggers a great deal of power by making these declarations, and there should be some substantive reason to support a decision to declare a state of national emergency."
Under the 1976 National Emergencies Act, Congress is required to review each national emergency every six months. That's never happened. "Congress has failed to hold them accountable," Edelson said.
In February, the president  extended a 19-year-old state of emergency against Cuba, suggesting the Castro regime had threatened to shoot down U.S. airplanes or sink U.S. ships in the waters north of the island nation.
White House press secretary Josh Earnest said the continuation of national emergency was scheduled to expire in February unless the president extended it by another year. "That was just a pro forma announcement," Earnest said Wednesday, reiterating the Latin phrase suggesting that the emergencies are mere formalities.
He said the emergency has no bearing on whether the State Department decides to remove Cuba from its state sponsors of terrorism list,  which remains a major roadblock toward normalizing diplomatic relations with the communist country. "Our policy will remain in place until a decision is made to change it, and that's essentially what that reflects," Earnest said.
Those emergency declarations must be renewed every year, or else they expire. On Wednesday, Obama sent a notice to Congress renewing a five-year-old emergency against Somalia, declaring that pirates off the coast of Somalia continued to threaten U.S. national security.
Follow @gregorykorte on Twitter.
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1ygbVhC
USA NOW
A changing circus: Go behind the scenes at Ringling Bros
Apr 10, 2015

