Lawmakers bless Bible as Tennessee's official book
Apr 8, 2015, 6:57am CDT Updated: Apr 8, 2015, 7:20am CDT
Thank you for sharing. Your email has been sent.
Email address of friend (insert comma between multiple addresses):
Your email address:
The Holy Bible could soon be listed alongside "Rocky Top" and salamanders as official state icons.
Tennessee House and Senate committees voted Tuesday to make the Bible the state's official book, though not everyone is on board.
Lt. Gov. Ron Ramsey , for example, said he is "adamantly opposed" to the measure.
"I mean the Bible is my official book, it is. It shouldn't be put in the Blue Book with 'Rocky Top,' salamanders and tulip poplars. I'm sorry; it just shouldn't," Ramsey said, according to The Tennessean . "I think that belittles the most holy book that's ever been written."
Supporters say making the Bible the state's official book would not promote Christianity above other religions. The bill's language does not specify which version of the Bible would become the state's official book.
According to The Tennessean, the bill must pass calendar committees in the House and Senate before it will head to a floor vote.
Want Nashville news in your inbox? Click here to sign up for our email newsletters.
Comments
If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
More from the NBJ, and our partners
Sponsored by
CEO/President Kentucky Derby Museum | Louisville, KY
Hiring for All Positions Double Dogs Chow House at Hillsboro Village | Nashville, TN
Slideshows
Twitter
Emailed
Mobile
Don't kill the messenger... Enjoy your visits to Harris Teeter while you can: http://t.co/NteHBexGpH http://t.co/umFSR3m5Co
Get business news stories compiled from media outlets around Nashville and delivered for free, directly to your inbox.
Sign Up Now

