Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Dershowitz says Menendez indictment related to senator's foreign policy views
SECAUCUS  - Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz believes New Jersey Senator Robert Menendez may have been indicted by the Obama administration due to differing stances on foreign policy.
"Senator Menendez has challenged the Administration's policy toward Cuba, expressed concerns over a nuclear deal being brokered with Iran, questioned why an agency would condone throwing good medicine in the garbage, and asked whether a foreign government or the private sector is better at port security," writes Dershowitz in a post on policy forum the Gatestone Institute titled  "Dangers to Democracy in the Prosecution of Senator Menendez". "Senators should not have to fear that the Executive Branch will unleash prosecutors to go after politicians who are critical of the administration."
Menendez was indicted earlier this month on charges of corruption and bribery stemming from his relationship with friend and Florida eye doctor Salomon Melgen. Menendez, the former mayor of Union City and chair of the Hudson County Democratic Organization, has been accused of accepting close to $1 million dollars in gifts from Melgen in exchange for using his political clout to help Melgen businesses and get three of Melgen's girlfriend's US visas.
Menendez maintains he is a longtime friend of Melgen and did not trade his campaign cash for political favors.
Menendez has vowed not to resign from office, although did relinquish his position as the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
Dershowitz believes the evidence against Menendez is thin, and that the prosecution undermines the checks and balances system of government.
"It is not enough to base prosecutions on the old saw that 'where there's smoke there's fire'", writes Dershowitz. "In cases involving public figures, the smoke may simply be a manifestation of politics as usual -- the sort that allows political fundraisers and bundlers to make significant contributions in exchange for what they hope and expect will be access, support and patronage. Those prosecuting Senator Menendez seem not to have applied this rigorous test."
Follow Matthew Speiser on Twitter @Spyzguyz  for more Hudson County news
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

