Jindal calls change to Indiana beliefs law disappointing
The leftover breakfasts of Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal and Willie Robertson, the star of “Duck Dynasty,” each of whom spoke at a Fantastic Friday prayer event in Cedar Rapids.(Photo: Josh Hafner/The Register)Acquire PhotoCEDAR RAPIDS, Ia. – Prospective...
The leftover breakfasts of Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal and Willie Robertson, the star of “Duck Dynasty,” each of whom spoke at a Fantastic Friday prayer event in Cedar Rapids.(Photo: Josh Hafner/The Register)Acquire Photo
CEDAR RAPIDS, Ia. –  Prospective presidential candidate Bobby Jindal weighed in Friday on Indiana's controversial religious freedom law, calling news of protections added to the law yesterday for LGBT men and women a disappointment.
The Indiana law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, has dominated national news given that its passage last week following critics argued it could legalize protection for corporations that discriminate against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender folks for religious motives.
"What I've read, what I am concerned about, is that it appears like they need to have to take steps to proactively defend evangelical Christians who could face discrimination if they never want to participate in a marriage that violates their religious beliefs," Jindal told reporters.
A number of Republican presidential candidates — which includes Jindal, the governor of Louisiana — voiced assistance for the law in current days. On Thursday, the state amended the law to provide restricted protections around sexual orientation and gender identity.
Jindal, in a speech to extra than 900 evangelicals at a Superior Friday prayer breakfast, named opposition to the law an affront to religious liberty.
DES MOINES REGISTER
Gortz Haus owners watching fight more than Indiana religion law
"I don't know about you, but in some cases it feels like evangelical Christians are the only group that it is OK to discriminate against nowadays in this society," mentioned Jindal, who has named himself an "evangelical Catholic."
Jindal, whose state passed a religious protection law in 2010, also voiced approval for a Louisiana legislator mulling a bill that would add protections to religious small business owners there.
In the 1990s, religious protection laws passed with small controversy, Jindal noted.
"They have been satisfied to support these laws when it was for Native American groups, when it was for other groups that have been facing discrimination," Jindal told reporters, adding "We need to want these rights for all Americans, including evangelical Christians."
DES MOINES REGISTER
Bobby Jindal builds an Iowa team
Jindal has spent 11 days in Iowa through the 2016 cycle, according to Des Moines Register records, largely connecting with evangelical conservative activists. Considered a rising star of his party when he became governor in 2008, Jindal has since noticed fresher Republican faces cruise past him in presidential polls.
Nonetheless, an organization Jindal started is sending three staffers to Iowa and plans to open an office soon.
Friday's prayer occasion took spot at a downtown Cedar Rapids hotel, where Jindal received second billing to fellow Louisianan Willie Robertson, star of the reality Television show "Duck Dynasty."
Jindal named his pal Robertson "an icon, a cultural figure and a hero of quite a few." Robertson, in the course of his address, spoke fondly of Jindal, also.
"If you had told me I was going to be going about with the governor to Iowa, exactly where we had been going to speak collectively and my name would be in bigger font than his, I'd say, 'No way. There is no way that's going to come about,' " mentioned Robertson, sporting his signature beard and American flag bandanna headband.
Event attendee Bruce Briezen, a 49-year-old company manager from Cedar Rapids, mentioned Jindal's Christian values resonated effectively with him.
"It sounds like he has definitely superior common sense that we really appreciate and will need in the country proper now," mentioned Briezen, who at the moment favors Cruz ahead of 2016.
At the close of his speech, Jindal urged Christians gathered there to not drop heart.
"He does not guarantee us that our team's going to win right now. He doesn't guarantee us that all the things we want to come about is going to take place today or tomorrow," Jindal said. "But he lets us appear on the last web page … And on the last page of the book of life, God wins."
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

