Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Federal prosecutors have accused a Florida parking meter supplier of bribing Portland's former parking manager Ellis K. McCoy with golf, gambling and other trips and promising more than $100,000 in payments in exchange for steering multimillion-dollar city contracts to his business.
Oregon's U.S. Attorney's office on Thursday unsealed a May 2014 criminal information against George R. Levey charging him with honest services wire fraud . Levey was an executive with Schlumberger Industries Inc. and later owned Cale Parking Systems USA Inc.
Levey, of Tarpon Springs, Florida, is set to make his first appearance in federal court in Portland on April 29. His lawyer, David Zornow, of New York's Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, declined comment.
The disclosure of the criminal charge comes about a month before McCoy, now 63, is set to be sentenced. McCoy pleaded guilty to accepting bribes more than two years ago.
Between January 2002 and July 2011, Levey is accused of paying $56,675 in phony consulting fees to McCoy's EKM Consulting business, which was set up to receive and disguise the bribes, according to federal prosecutors.
Levey also is accused of promising $137,100 to McCoy whenever he ended his work with the city of Portland, essentially $100 for every SmartMeter that his company installed in Portland, Hood River and in three cities in Washington state,  Assistant U.S. Attorney Seth Uram wrote in the criminal information document .
Levey paid some or all of McCoy's travel, lodging, meals, adult entertainment and other expenses associated with gambling trips that McCoy took to Las Vegas casinos, prosecutors allege. He's accused of paying similar lodging and entertainment expenses when McCoy attended parking industry conventions or conferences.
Federal prosecutors also allege that McCoy agreed to speak favorably about Levey's companies to other cities interested in buying smart parking meters.
McCoy would help Levey secure meter contracts with the other cities by disclosing information that he learned from his public employee counterparts in those cities, federal prosecutors allege.
McCoy also gave Levey advice on how to draft contract proposals for Portland city contracts, recommended Levey's companies to Portland city officials for contracts and testified before the Portland City Council in favor of Levey's companies, federal prosecutors allege.
From June 2008 through July 2011, Levey maintained a spreadsheet tracking the number of smart parking meters that his company installed in Portland, Hood River and in Washington, according to the criminal information. He multiplied the total number of parking meters he installed by $100, intending to pay McCoy when McCoy left his Portland city job, according to emails Levey sent to McCoy.
"The citizens of every city in Oregon are entitled to honesty and transparency every time public money is spent,''  Acting U.S. Attorney Billy J. Williams said in a statement. "The bribing of public officials involved in contracting corrupts the contracting process, harms honest contractors and citizens, and diminishes public trust in local government.''
Levey has remained out of custody since the FBI raid of his business in 2011.
McCoy has admitted to accepting bribes from two contractors, Levey and a still-unidentified business.
In earlier court records, federal prosecutors wrote that McCoy accepted checks totaling $37,134.24 payable to his consulting company, EKM Consulting, between June 2004 and November 2006. They also say he pocketed another $94,668 in U.S. and Canadian currency between July 2004 and September 2008.
--Maxine Bernstein
© 2015 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

