Top rated ten list of Rand Paul accomplishments
Presidential candidate Rand Paul speaks to guests at the Iowa Memorial Union on Friday, April ten, 2015.(Photo: David Scrivner / Iowa City Press-Citizen)None of the Kentucky Republican's key pieces of legislation has passed, but as a freshman senator in...
Presidential candidate Rand Paul speaks to guests at the Iowa Memorial Union on Friday, April ten, 2015.(Photo: David Scrivner / Iowa City Press-Citizen)
None of the Kentucky Republican's key pieces of legislation has passed, but as a freshman senator in the minority, Paul has ignited a national following and elevated to the forefront concerns such as federal surveillance and criminal justice reform.
Right here are the actions that Paul considers to be his greatest hits, ranked by his employees:
1. His 13-hour filibuster. Driven by unanswered questions about the legality of utilizing drone strikes inside the United States, Paul filibustered the nomination of John Brennan as director of the Central Intelligence Agency on March 6.
two. Paul filed a lawsuit against President Barack Obama and the National Security Agency in February 2014, arguing that a system to gather metadata from vast swaths of Americans was an intrusion of privacy.
DES MOINES REGISTER
Rand Paul calls for &#39Instagram generation to get up off their sofas'
3. As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he pressed U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for details about the Sept. 11, 2012, attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, and the death of 4 Americans.
four. He held a "listening session" with nearby leaders in Ferguson, Mo., in October 2014 in the wake of civil unrest there. Paul has mentioned he thinks the underlying difficulty in Ferguson and elsewhere is a criminal justice program that unfairly targets minorities.
five. In Detroit in December 2013, Paul described his concept for the "Economic Freedom Zone Act of 2013," which would decrease taxes in any ZIP code with unemployment higher than 11/two times the national typical.
6. Paul traveled to Guatemala on a mission trip to do absolutely free eye surgeries.
7. He filed a resolution that declared a state of war exists amongst the Islamic State and the United States.
eight. Paul has pushed for criminal justice reform. In February 2014, he appeared before a committee at the Kentucky Senate to argue for restoration of voting rights for nonviolent Kentucky felons, and in February this year filed a bill that would restore federal voting rights. He filed a criminal justice reform bill final month.
9. He spoke on the campus of the University of California, Berkeley, about safeguarding Fourth Amendment rights.
10. In April 2014, he filed a bill that would halt U.S. help to the Palestinian government until it agrees to a cease-fire and recognizes the right of Israel to exist.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
11 April 2015 Saturday 01:49

