Inside the Star
Edward Snowden leaks could bring down part of U.S. Patriot Act
The section of the act used by the U.S. to justify phone surveillance could be thrown out by the Republican-controlled Congress.
Share on Facebook
OLE SPATA / AFP/GETTY IMAGES
National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden speaks via live video call during a technology fair in 2015. In 2013, Snowden revealed that the U.S. government was systematically collecting “metadata” on Americans’ domestic telephone activity, a revelation that may kill the phone surveillance provisions in the Patriot Act.
By: Daniel Dale Washington Bureau, Published on Tue May 26 2015
WASHINGTON—The Patriot Act might be cut down by an alleged traitor.
In 2001, a month after the Sept. 11 attacks, the U.S. Senate voted 99 to one in favour of a sweeping anti-terrorism bill with a name written for maximum political invincibility. Fourteen years later, the Senate is days away from tossing out one of the law’s major surveillance sections.
The fateful moment would not have arrived without Edward Snowden , the leaker President Barack Obama ’s administration accuses of betraying the country.
“No chance. Zero chance,” said Jameel Jaffer, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Center for Democracy.
“In almost 15 years we haven’t had a serious debate about government surveillance,” Jaffer said. “This is the first time. I think that is principally a reflection of the way the Snowden disclosures have changed people’s thinking about all this .”
Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor, revealed in 2013 that the government was systematically collecting “metadata” on Americans’ domestic telephone activity: information on whom they called, when and for how long the calls lasted.
Secretary of State John Kerry said he is a traitor and a coward. But on Sunday — Monday local time in Russia, where Snowden now lives in exile — other American politicians might hand him his biggest victory to date over Kerry’s government.
The House of Representatives approved an Obama-backed compromise that would stop the NSA from directly collecting phone data in bulk but would still allow the government to quickly obtain the same information from phone companies.
That wasn’t good enough for the top Senate Republican, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who says the safety of the country would be jeopardized by anything other than a full extension of the Patriot Act.
McConnell waited until the last moments of last week to schedule a vote, apparently hoping to scare his colleagues into siding with him instead of allowing a national security program to vanish. His gambit failed.
Earlier this month a federal appeals court ruled the metadata program illegal . And in the Obama era, the Republican caucus is far more suspicious of government intrusion than their colleagues were under George W. Bush.
“It’s clear that the political climate has shifted, and shifted quite dramatically,” said Jaffer.
Sen. Rand Paul, a presidential candidate, spoke against the program for 11 consecutive hours. After midnight on Saturday, he blocked McConnell’s desperate attempts to extend the law by one week and then by even one day.
“Sen. McConnell was trying to squeeze the senators: either you vote for what I’ve got, or this is going to fail and people are going to blame you. And people weren’t willing to be stampeded,” said Daniel Schuman, policy director of Demand Progress, an advocacy group opposed to mass surveillance. “It’s not working in the way that it has worked before.”
The Senate will have one more chance to hammer out some sort of deal. McConnell will hold a rare meeting on Sunday, just hours before the deadline.
“This needs to get done,” Obama said Tuesday at the White House. “And I would urge folks to just work through whatever issues can still exist, make sure we don’t have, on midnight Sunday night, this task still undone, because it’s necessary to keep the American people safe and secure.”
The administration says the phone program will end completely if the Patriot Act section is allowed to lapse. Jaffer and Schuman said the government could offer up other provisions and laws to justify a move to continue collecting Americans’ records.
But the expiry of the Patriot Act section could force at least short-term changes by the NSA, they said, and would send an important message about Congress’s desire to rein in domestic surveillance.
“I think the effect of this is largely psychological, not substantive,” Schuman said.
More on thestar.com

