Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Hundreds of people lined the streets in Harrisburg April 21-22, 1865, as the body of President Abraham Lincoln  moved from the train station to the Capitol.
Lincoln lay in state in the state House of Representatives from evening on April 21 into the next day when his nine-car funeral train continued on its journey through 180 cities in seven states to its destination of his hometown, Springfield, Ill.
President Lincoln was shot on April 14, 1865, by John Wilkes Booth during a play at Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C.
A portrait of Abraham Lincoln, one of a series of photos by Alexander Gardner made April 9, 1865, the week of the assassination. It is believed to be the last photograph made of Lincoln. Associated Press/Alexander Gardner 
Lincoln died the next morning. After the shooting, he had been carried to a house across the street.
Lincoln's body was taken to the White House. On April 18 it was carried to the Capitol rotunda to lay in state. On April 21, his body was boarded onto a train.
The train arrived in Harrisburg shortly after 8 p.m. on April 21. The coffin was carried by hearse to the state House of Representatives where it could be viewed by the public at 9:30 p.m. At 10 a.m. on April 22, people lined the streets to see a hearse carry the coffin back to the train station where the train left at 11:15 a.m. bound for Philadelphia.
The Historical Society of Dauphin County  will offer a special program with Joseph Garrera at 3 p.m. April 12 on the Lincoln funeral train. The program will be in the Harris-Cameron Mansion.
Garrera is the executive director of the Lehigh County Historical Society and Lehigh Valley Heritage Museum and currently serves on the board of several Lincoln organizations, including the esteemed Abraham Lincoln Association in Springfield, Ill.
Cost is $5.
A guided tour of the mansion will be offered at 1 p.m. and the research library will be open 1-4 p.m.
In addition, the National Park Service  will hold a Lincoln funeral train commemoration by holding programs in all of the cities that held funerals for Lincoln, including Harrisburg.
The programs will feature actor Fritz Klein as Lincoln.
It will be in Harrisburg at 7 p.m. April 21 at the state Capitol.
Get 'Today's Front Page' in your inbox
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for signing up for 'Today's Front Page'
To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Most Read
Active Discussions
© 2015 PA Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of PA Media Group
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

