Posted:
Updated:
HELENA -
The 2015 Legislature is heading into its final month, with plenty of work still ahead.
“The biggest thing we have to get done before we leave is the budget,” said MT Rep. Austin Knudsen, the Speaker of the House..
The main budget bill, House Bill 2, faced a veto threat from Gov. Steve Bullock (D), after the House passed it with considerable less funding than Bullock requested.
The governor and members of the Senate Finance and Claims Committee reached a compromise this week to add about $25 million to the package.
That budget deal is headed to a likely vote, and more amendments, on the Senate floor when lawmakers return from Easter break next Tuesday.
If the budget bill passes the Senate, it then goes back to the House, where Senate changes will be considered.
 If differences remain between the two chambers, they will likely be ironed out by a House-Senate conference committee.
Another priority for Republicans is tax cuts. 
Governor Bullock vetoed House Bill 166, which would have provided an across-the-board personal income tax cut. 
Democrats slammed that measure, calling it fiscally irresponsible and saying it failed to target the tax relief at the middle class.
Knudsen says another tax bill, Senate Bill 200, heeds the governor's message. 
That measure passed the House on a party-line vote, but the governor has not yet indicated whether he will sign it.
Other big items on the April agenda, include the contentious Flathead Water Compact. 
The Compact squeaked through the Senate earlier this session, and comes up for a hearing before the House Judiciary Committee on April 11.
That Saturday hearing will be held in the Old Supreme Court chambers in the Capitol, which was packed when the Senate Judiciary Committee considered it earlier.
“The reason we've done that is to offer a full day of testimony,” Knudsen said. “It's a big issue, there's a lot of people who want to talk to that bill, there's a lot of opponents and a lot of proponents.”
Also ahead are plans for infrastructure development, with the governor's single bill now split into five bills.
Those bills have passed the House with the exception of House Bill 8, which would borrow funds by issuing bonds.
It requires 75 out of 100 votes to pass in the House and failed this week, but a motion to reconsider that vote passed, which means it will be back on the floor for another vote next week.
Bullock's original $390 million infrastructure improvement plan would have borrowed more than $200 million.
Many Republicans have opposed bringing on that debt.
Another major topic ahead is the Medicaid expansion bill sponsored by MT Sen. Ed Buttrey (R-Great Falls) and supported by Gov. Bullock. 
It passed in the Senate, with seven Republicans joining all 21 Democrats.
Buttrey's compromise bill is scheduled for a hearing before the House Public Health Committee next Tuesday.
That panel is chaired by MT Rep. Art Wittich (R-Belgrade), who has opposed  previous Medicaid expansion bills.
The final day of the Legislature is now scheduled for May 1.
WEATHER
Thursday, April 2 2015 3:20 PM EDT2015-04-02 19:20:57 GMT
Theresa Caputo, the "Long Island Medium," will host a show in Great Falls in June (Photo from TheresaCaputo.com)
Theresa Caputo, the "Long Island Medium," will host a show in Great Falls in June.
Theresa Caputo, the "Long Island Medium," will host a show in Great Falls in June.
Thursday, April 2 2015 7:06 PM EDT2015-04-02 23:06:41 GMT
Nicholas Allison had reportedly shot his neighbor once in the left arm with a handgun. (YCDF photo)
A Billings man who allegedly beat his girlfriend and then shot his neighbor for stepping in appeared in Yellowstone County Justice Court on Thursday and told the judge he is "not a bad person" and he is "different person" on drugs.
A Billings man who allegedly beat his girlfriend and then shot his neighbor for stepping in appeared in Yellowstone County Justice Court on Thursday and told the judge he is "not a bad person" and he is "different person" on drugs.
Thursday, April 2 2015 1:49 PM EDT2015-04-02 17:49:58 GMT
There are 172 sexual or violent offenders that are noncompliant (Montana Department of Justice image)
Montana sex offenders' online and geographic freedoms could soon become more restricted.
Montana sex offenders' online and geographic freedoms could soon become more restricted.
UPDATE
Thursday, April 2 2015 11:59 PM EDT2015-04-03 03:59:58 GMT
   

