Latest home price gains far outpace growth in wages and income
Updated:
26 May 2015 08:09 PM
The run-up in preowned home prices this year has been a boon for sellers and tax appraisers.
But the implications of exploding housing costs are beginning to cloud economists’ outlook on the residential market.
“Home prices are currently rising more quickly than either per capita personal income (3.1 percent) or wages (2.2 percent), narrowing the pool of future homebuyers,” David Blizter of Standard & Poor’s said in his company’s survey of U.S. home prices. “All of this suggests that some future moderation in home prices gains is likely.”
Dallas-area home prices jumped 9.3 percent in March from a year earlier in the Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller Home Price Index.
The Dallas-area increase was more than twice the national average of 4.1 percent. And March’s year-over-year price gain rose from 8.6 percent in February.
Dallas had the third-highest home price increase in the country, behind San Francisco, 10.3 percent, and Denver, 10 percent.
The growth in home prices in North Texas over the last two years has been unprecedented and is more than twice the long-term average rate.
“Given the long stretch of strong reports, it is no surprise that people are asking if we’re in a new home price bubble,” Blitzer said in the report. “I would describe this as a rebound in home prices, not bubble and not a reason to be fearful.”
Dallas-area home prices are at a record high and about 15 percent ahead of where they were at the peak of the market before the recession, Case-Shiller says.
Home prices are soaring thanks to strong economic growth in North Texas and a severe shortage of houses for sale, analysts say.
Home prices are expected to rise at close to a 10 percent annual rate through the rest of this year and into 2016 in the Dallas-Fort Worth area.
“The industry is concerned that incomes aren’t rising as fast as home prices,” said David Brown of housing analyst Metrostudy Inc.
“Right now, builders are more about getting houses started and completed,” Brown said. “They are still selling homes.
“But everybody is wondering what happens when interest rates go to 6 percent.”
Unlike in some markets where speculation drove home prices higher than many consumers can afford, the rise in values in North Texas is driven by economic growth.
“This is not too surprising, given State Farm Insurance, Toyota, Liberty Mutual and all support firms that will follow them to North Texas,” said Randall S. Guttery, real estate programs director at University of Texas at Dallas. “Demand simply exceeds supply.
“To me, a bubble is an artificial price pressure on housing,” he said. “I see nothing artificial about our market locally.”
Follow Steve Brown on Twitter at @SteveBrownDMN.
top picks
Big houses
Food on TV
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

