Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges.
Post to Facebook
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvunRz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
1
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges
AP 1:44 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
FILE - According to reports, the U.S. Justice Department plans to announce corruption charges against officials at FIFA, the world's governing body of football. ZURICH, SWITZERLAND - OCTOBER 20:  The FIFA logo is seen outside the FIFA headquarters prior to the FIFA Executive Committee Meeting on October 20, 2011 in Zurich, Switzerland. During their third meeting of the year, held over two days, the FIFA Executive Committee will approve the match schedules for the FIFA Confederations Cup Brazil 2013 and the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil.
(Photo: Harold Cunningham, Getty Images)
ZURICH (AP) — The Swiss Federal Office of Justice says six soccer officials have been arrested and detained pending extradition at the request of U.S. authorities ahead of the FIFA congress in Zurich.
In a statement Wednesday, the FOJ says U.S. authorities suspect the officials of having received of paid bribes totaling millions of dollars.
FIFA, soccer's world governing body, is holding a presidential election in Zurich on Friday, when Sepp Blatter has been widely tipped to stay in the job.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


FIFA
Fabrice Coffrini / Getty Images
Several top FIFA officials were reportedly arrested early Wednesday morning in Zurich by Swiss authorities on federal corruption charges in the United States.
Several top FIFA officials were reportedly arrested early Wednesday morning in Zurich by Swiss authorities on federal corruption charges in the United States.
(Fabrice Coffrini / Getty Images)
DecentDiscourse
The arrests come at a particularly bad time for the embattled Blatter, whose 17-year reign as FIFA's leader has been plagued by charges of corruption, bribery and a lack of transparency. The presidency of 79-year-old Blatter is being challenged by Jordanian royal Prince Ali bin al-Hussein, a reformist candidate, in a vote scheduled for Friday.
Blatter was investigated but is not expected to be named in the indictment. However, officials told CNN the probe is not complete, leaving open the possibility Blatter could be charged later.
The Justice Department has sweeping authority under federal law to file charges against foreign nationals whose only connection to the country might be a U.S. bank account. U.S. officials could also claim jurisdiction because American companies have paid billions to FIFA for broadcast fees.
FIFA's size and global reach may also help U.S. officials. The organization, which stages major soccer events such as the World Cup, is richer than many multinational companies, holding more than $1.5 billion in reserve.
Follow Kevin Baxter on Twitter  @kbaxter11
Comments

