Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges.
Post to Facebook
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvunRz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
1
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges
AP 1:44 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
FILE - According to reports, the U.S. Justice Department plans to announce corruption charges against officials at FIFA, the world's governing body of football. ZURICH, SWITZERLAND - OCTOBER 20:  The FIFA logo is seen outside the FIFA headquarters prior to the FIFA Executive Committee Meeting on October 20, 2011 in Zurich, Switzerland. During their third meeting of the year, held over two days, the FIFA Executive Committee will approve the match schedules for the FIFA Confederations Cup Brazil 2013 and the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil.
(Photo: Harold Cunningham, Getty Images)
ZURICH (AP) — The Swiss Federal Office of Justice says six soccer officials have been arrested and detained pending extradition at the request of U.S. authorities ahead of the FIFA congress in Zurich.
In a statement Wednesday, the FOJ says U.S. authorities suspect the officials of having received of paid bribes totaling millions of dollars.
FIFA, soccer's world governing body, is holding a presidential election in Zurich on Friday, when Sepp Blatter has been widely tipped to stay in the job.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


The United States Justice Department has indicted more than a dozenÂ top FIFA executives on charges of corruption, according to multiple reports Tuesday night.
The charges, aÂ result of an extensive investigation intoÂ soccer's multi-billion-dollarÂ governing body, includeÂ wire fraud, racketeering and money laundering spanning the last two decades, according to the New York Times, which was the first to report the story .Â Law enforcement officials plan to announceÂ the charges as early as Wednesday morning.
FIFA headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland (Getty Images)
As many as 14 arrests are expected to be made in connection with the crimes, CNN reported . The report said those people will be indicted Wednesday in federal court in Brooklyn, N.Y. Some of the charges to those living abroad would result in extradition to the United States.
FIFA, which reported a revenue of $5.7 billion from 2011 to 2014,Â has been the subjectÂ of corruption allegations for years. The latest corruption chargesÂ involve bids for World Cups in addition toÂ marketing and broadcast deals, the New York Times report said. Possibly as important,Â theyÂ come just three days before FIFA was scheduled to hold its presidential election.
Longtime presidentÂ Sepp Blatter, who officials said was not charged, was expected to be easily elected to his fifth term. But the scandal, the latest under Blatter'sÂ command,Â is likely to leave aÂ major smudge on his reputation and could potentially impact theÂ election.
In December, an internal investigationÂ launched byÂ FIFA into allegations ofÂ corrupted bidding processes for the 2018 and 2022 World CupÂ found no evidence to support the claims. The bids were awarded to Russia and Qatar, respectively.
A whistleblower who worked for the Qatar bid team allegedÂ several African officials were paid $1.5 million each to support Qatar. That came after, in 2011, FIFAÂ issuedÂ a lifetime ban to Mohamed bin Hammam,Â a Qatari member of its top governing body, citing ethics violations.
Purchase Soccer Tickets

