Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges.
Post to Facebook
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvunRz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
1
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges
AP 1:44 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
FILE - According to reports, the U.S. Justice Department plans to announce corruption charges against officials at FIFA, the world's governing body of football. ZURICH, SWITZERLAND - OCTOBER 20:  The FIFA logo is seen outside the FIFA headquarters prior to the FIFA Executive Committee Meeting on October 20, 2011 in Zurich, Switzerland. During their third meeting of the year, held over two days, the FIFA Executive Committee will approve the match schedules for the FIFA Confederations Cup Brazil 2013 and the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil.
(Photo: Harold Cunningham, Getty Images)
ZURICH (AP) — The Swiss Federal Office of Justice says six soccer officials have been arrested and detained pending extradition at the request of U.S. authorities ahead of the FIFA congress in Zurich.
In a statement Wednesday, the FOJ says U.S. authorities suspect the officials of having received of paid bribes totaling millions of dollars.
FIFA, soccer's world governing body, is holding a presidential election in Zurich on Friday, when Sepp Blatter has been widely tipped to stay in the job.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


FIFA President Sepp Blatter gestures at a news conference in 2014. (Reuters)
Swiss officials on Wednesday arrested top officials of FIFA, the international soccer federation, in a sweeping, international anti-corruption investigation led by the Justice Department, according to multiple news reports.
The Swiss will seek to extradite the officials to New York to stand trial, according to the New York Times, which broke the story and had a reporter stationed in advance at a luxury hotel in Zurich to report on the FIFA executives being rounded up.
Indictments against as many as ten current and former FIFA officials will reportedly be announced Wednesday by Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch and FBI director James Comey, according to the Times and the Wall Street Journal.  Charges include wire fraud, racketeering and money laundering, and center around successful bids for upcoming World Cups in Russia and Qatar, according to the Times .
The indictments follow months of intensifying speculation and years of corruption accusations against FIFA, officially titled the Federation Internationale de Football Association. FIFA is an immensely powerful organization, presiding over the planet’s most popular sport and awarding the World Cup. FIFA currently sits on more than $1.5 billion in cash reserves, according to the Times.
The arrests come just two days before FIFA’s presidential elections. Current president Sepp Blatter is the favorite but has come under withering criticism over the ongoing corruption investigation. Earlier this month he was forced to deny that he was a target of the probe and was avoiding traveling to the U.S. Blatter is not one of the officials indicted, according to the Times.
The investigation is a multi-year effort involving the FBI, IRS and the Justice Department, and led by the Brooklyn U.S. attorney’s office, formerly headed by Lynch, according to the Wall Street Journal .
Neither the Justice Department or FIFA were available for comment.
FIFA execs not being led out in handcuffs. Very peaceful. Hotel staff meanwhile is freaking out.
Swiss agent just walked out of hotel with two bags of evidence
Swiss law enforcement getting room numbers for FIFA execs they are heading upstairs to arrest pic.twitter.com/F69djqpcu5
Michael E. Miller is a foreign affairs reporter for The Washington Post. He writes for the Morning Mix news blog. Tweet him: @MikeMillerDC
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!

