Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges.
Post to Facebook
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvunRz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
1
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges
AP 1:44 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
FILE - According to reports, the U.S. Justice Department plans to announce corruption charges against officials at FIFA, the world's governing body of football. ZURICH, SWITZERLAND - OCTOBER 20:  The FIFA logo is seen outside the FIFA headquarters prior to the FIFA Executive Committee Meeting on October 20, 2011 in Zurich, Switzerland. During their third meeting of the year, held over two days, the FIFA Executive Committee will approve the match schedules for the FIFA Confederations Cup Brazil 2013 and the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil.
(Photo: Harold Cunningham, Getty Images)
ZURICH (AP) — The Swiss Federal Office of Justice says six soccer officials have been arrested and detained pending extradition at the request of U.S. authorities ahead of the FIFA congress in Zurich.
In a statement Wednesday, the FOJ says U.S. authorities suspect the officials of having received of paid bribes totaling millions of dollars.
FIFA, soccer's world governing body, is holding a presidential election in Zurich on Friday, when Sepp Blatter has been widely tipped to stay in the job.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


ZURICH
Journalists are reflected in a logo at the FIFA headquarters after a meeting of the executive committee in Zurich October 4, 2013.
Reuters/Arnd Wiegmann
ZURICH Six soccer officials were arrested in Zurich on Wednesday and detained pending extradition to the United States over suspected corruption at soccer's governing body FIFA, the Swiss Federal Office of Justice said in a statement.
"The bribery suspects -- representatives of sports media and sports promotion firms -- are alleged to have been involved in schemes to make payments to the soccer functionaries -- delegates of FIFA and other functionaries of FIFA sub-organizations -- totaling more than USD 100 million," said the statement.
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

