Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges.
Post to Facebook
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvunRz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
1
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges
AP 1:44 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
FILE - According to reports, the U.S. Justice Department plans to announce corruption charges against officials at FIFA, the world's governing body of football. ZURICH, SWITZERLAND - OCTOBER 20:  The FIFA logo is seen outside the FIFA headquarters prior to the FIFA Executive Committee Meeting on October 20, 2011 in Zurich, Switzerland. During their third meeting of the year, held over two days, the FIFA Executive Committee will approve the match schedules for the FIFA Confederations Cup Brazil 2013 and the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil.
(Photo: Harold Cunningham, Getty Images)
ZURICH (AP) — The Swiss Federal Office of Justice says six soccer officials have been arrested and detained pending extradition at the request of U.S. authorities ahead of the FIFA congress in Zurich.
In a statement Wednesday, the FOJ says U.S. authorities suspect the officials of having received of paid bribes totaling millions of dollars.
FIFA, soccer's world governing body, is holding a presidential election in Zurich on Friday, when Sepp Blatter has been widely tipped to stay in the job.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


May 27, 2015, 1:07 AM ET
A FIFA logo is seen in front of the organization's head office in Zurich on September 26, 2014.
Sebastien Bozon/AFP/Getty Images
Swiss authorities arrested officials with FIFA, soccer's international governing body, in connection with a federal corruption investigation, law enforcement officials told ABC News.
According to three senior U.S. law enforcement officials, the indictments to be unsealed will focus on allegations of bribery and corruption by current and former FIFA board members in connection with awarding the 2022 World Cup to Qatar . The United States was a runner-up to Qatar in the final vote.
Six soccer officials were arrested, according to a statement by the Swiss Federal Office of Justice. The officials were detained pending extradition at the request of the United States.
News of the arrests was first reported by the New York Times.
Full details of the investigation are scheduled to be unveiled during a 10:30 a.m. news conference in Brooklyn. Attorney General Loretta Lynch and FBI Director James Comey are scheduled to attend.
The arrests come days ahead of FIFA congress and presidential election in Zurich, where Sepp Blatter is bidding for a fifth term as FIFA President. Blatter – who has served as president for 17 years – has never been implicated in personal corruption and was not among the officials arrested, but his tenure has been marked by numerous scandals.
Before Qatar won its bid for the 2022 World Cup, soccer federation officials were warned in advanced about the potentially dangerous heat in Qatar that makes its capital of Doha look like a ghost town during the day. The country is one of the hottest places on earth -- where daytime temperatures regularly reach 124 degrees.
They were also told about allegations by human rights groups of what the groups called medieval conditions for migrant workers there that could cost the lives of hundreds tasked to build the new World Cup stadiums.
But those troubles were ignored in the final vote that came down to Qatar and the U.S., which had named 18 potential host cities. The U.S. lost.
Not long after the vote, allegations surfaced that some FIFA members had been bribed to vote for Qatar. FIFA later launched an internal investigation into the allegations, with Qatar cleared of any major violations.
Get real-time updates as this story unfolds. To start, just "star" this story in ABC News' phone app. Download ABC News for iPhone here or ABC News for Android here .
-- This embed didnt make it to copy for story id = 31326400.
Join the Discussion
KVUE

