Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges.
Post to Facebook
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvunRz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
1
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FIFA officials arrested on federal corruption charges
AP 1:44 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
FILE - According to reports, the U.S. Justice Department plans to announce corruption charges against officials at FIFA, the world's governing body of football. ZURICH, SWITZERLAND - OCTOBER 20:  The FIFA logo is seen outside the FIFA headquarters prior to the FIFA Executive Committee Meeting on October 20, 2011 in Zurich, Switzerland. During their third meeting of the year, held over two days, the FIFA Executive Committee will approve the match schedules for the FIFA Confederations Cup Brazil 2013 and the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil.
(Photo: Harold Cunningham, Getty Images)
ZURICH (AP) — The Swiss Federal Office of Justice says six soccer officials have been arrested and detained pending extradition at the request of U.S. authorities ahead of the FIFA congress in Zurich.
In a statement Wednesday, the FOJ says U.S. authorities suspect the officials of having received of paid bribes totaling millions of dollars.
FIFA, soccer's world governing body, is holding a presidential election in Zurich on Friday, when Sepp Blatter has been widely tipped to stay in the job.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


Published May 27, 2015
May 19, 2015: FIFA President  Sepp Blatter attends a press conference in Jerusalem.  (AP Photo/Tsafrir Abayov)
Several officials of international soccer's governing body were arrested by Swiss authorities early Wednesday and face extradition to the U.S. after federal prosecutors charged them with accepting bribes and kickbacks as far back as the early 1990s.
Switzerland's Federal Office of Justice confirmed to the Associated Press that six soccer officials were arrested and detained, but did not specify that they were all members of the International Federation of Association Football, known as FIFA. The Wall Street Journal had reported that up to 12 officials were expected to be detained.
The arrests were carried out at a five-star hotel in Zurich ahead of FIFA's annual meeting, which was to feature an election Friday that was widely expected to return 79-year-old Sepp Blatter for a fifth term as the organization's president.
The New York Times reported that Blatter was not among those who were arrested, but other members of FIFA's powerful executive committee were. It was not immediately clear exactly how many FIFA officials were being sought, or whether they all were in Switzerland for the meeting. The paper reported that at least two officials were seen being led out of the hotel without handcuffs and were allowed to bring their luggage.
The Wall Street Journal reported that federal prosecutors in New York were expected to unseal the indictment as early as Wednesday morning. The Journal reported that top law enforcement officials, including Attorney General Loretta Lynch, were expected to appear at a news conference to announce the charges.
The Times also reported that fraud, racketeering, and money laundering are among the charges listed in the indictment. The charges deal with corruption related to marketing and broadcast deals, as well as in bidding for the right to host the quadrennial World Cup, the biggest sporting event on Earth.
"We’re struck by just how long this went on for and how it touched nearly every part of what FIFA did," The Times quoted a law enforcement official as saying. "It just seemed to permeate every element of the federation and was just their way of doing business. It seems like this corruption was institutionalized."
According to The Times, other FIFA officials who faced arrest include Jeffery Webb and Eugenio Figueredo, both of whom are vice presidents of the executive committee. Jack Warner, a former executive committee member, was also expected to be charged.
The case against the officials is expected to involve dealings with CONCACAF, one of FIFA's six regional confederations. CONCACAF oversees all aspects of international soccer in North America, the Caribbean, and Central America. The United States, Mexico, and Canada are among CONCACAF's 41 member associations. 
FIFA has been dogged by accusations of corruption in recent years, most of it related to the bidding to host the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. Host rights for those tournaments were awarded in December 2010 to Russia and Qatar, countries which have been heavily criticized for their human rights record. Qatar's use of migrant labor to build the stadiums and other infrastructure to host the tournament has come under particular attack from advocacy groups.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

