April 6, 2015 9:30AM
Don Jenkins/Capital Press Rail cars roll past a crossing guard on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe mainline March 18 in southwest Washington. A bill focused on tankers hauling crude oil was amended in the state Senate to cover anhydrous ammonia, a nitrogen-based fertilizer. A House committee has now removed fertilizer cars from the bill.
House committee exempts trains carrying agricultural products from bill focused on crude oil rail cars.
OLYMPIA — House Democrats have stricken anhydrous ammonia, a widely used nitrogen fertilizer, from a bill motivated by the influx of rail tankers hauling Bakken crude oil to West Coast refineries.
“I’m glad the House Environment Committee heard our concerns and amended the bill to minimize the impact on agriculture,” Washington Farm Bureau associate director of governmental relations Scott Dilley said.
Lawmakers have been working on legislation to help fire departments and communities respond to potentially explosive derailments.
Senate Bill 5057’s provisions include mandating larger crews for trains carrying hazardous materials. Railroad unions say additional crew members would be in position to decouple burning rail cars, while railroad companies say larger crews are unnecessary and may conflict with federal rules.
A Senate floor amendment extended the staffing requirement to trains hauling anhydrous ammonia.
The amendment, which passed over the opposition of Senate Republican leaders, pulled agricultural groups into what had been a debate about regulating oil tankers.
Farm lobbyists, concerned the bill would increase the cost of transporting fertilizer, argued anhydrous ammonia didn’t belong in the bill.
The chemical, though hazardous, isn’t explosive. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, leaking anhydrous ammonia rapidly expands into a heavier-than-air cloud that causes breathing difficulties and burns.
The House Environment Committee dropped anhydrous ammonia from the bill when it amended and then passed SB 5057 on March 30. The full House has yet to vote on bill. If it passes, the Senate will have to agree to the changes.
The bill could apply to farm chemicals that are flammable.
“Over the next couple of weeks, I expect more discussion will take place on the competing ideas from the House and Senate on how to address the bill’s central topic — transportation of crude oil,” Dilley said. “We’ll continue to work to ensure that any resulting legislation doesn’t increase costs for farmers. The House committee’s actions were certainly a step in the right direction.”
Share and Discuss
User Comments
Our Guidelines
Stay on topic - This helps keep the thread focused on the discussion at hand. If you would like to discuss another topic, look for a relevant article.
Share with Us - We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article, and smart, constructive criticism.
Be Civil - It's OK to have a difference in opinion but there's no need to be a jerk. We reserve the right to delete any comments that we feel are spammy, off-topic, or reckless to the community.
×

