Colorado Springs News, Sports & Business
Hearing date set for Douglas Bruce over possible parole violations; he could return to prison
×
DENVER - A questionable real estate deal that has brought an ethics probe against a Colorado Springs city councilwoman is on a list of alleged probation violations that could land Douglas Bruce back in jail.
+ caption
Douglas Bruce, the Colorado Springs author of the Taxpayer's Bill of Rights, arrives in Denver court Friday morning. (Jesse Paul, The Denver Post)
Related Information
Bruce appeared before Denver District Judge Sheila A. Rappaport on Friday to learn of the charges that he violated terms of his probation. He said the violations were technical, and it was all a misunderstanding.
A hearing was set for July 13 for Bruce, the Colorado Springs author of the Taxpayer's Bill of Rights.
"I'm the biggest nose in Colorado. They are picking on me big-time," Bruce said after the arraignment, adding that he has been a model probationer for three years.
Bruce, 65, was convicted in 2012 of tax evasion, filing a false tax return and trying to influence a public servant, all felonies. He served 104 days.
He returned to the spotlight last month when an ethics complaint was filed against City Councilwoman Helen Collins over his real estate transaction with her.
Collins, who attended his court hearing, on Friday obtained an extension till April 28 to respond to the ethics complaint, said Jane Feldman, the Denver attorney hired to work with the Colorado Springs Ethics Commission on the case.
If Bruce is found guilty of violating probation, he could be incarcerated again, said Robert Shapiro, first assistant attorney general.
"While we will always be open-minded to engage in fruitful discussions with any defendant, or preferably counsel on behalf of a defendant to reach an equitable resolution, if we meet our burden of proving the allegations by preponderance of the evidence, then the defendant can be sentenced by the court to anything from reinstatement of probation to the Department of Corrections and we will reserve our recommendation when and if we meet our burden," Shapiro said.
Bruce is representing himself in the case.
In December, he transferred the deed of a Colorado Springs condominium to Collins for $10. The complaint against Collins alleges that he did so in an effort to avoid paying $7,569.61 in court-ordered attorney fees to the city.
Such judgments attach a lien to all property owned by that person in the county where they are filed, meaning the judgment would have to be paid if any of the properties were sold. The judgment was reached Dec. 1 over a 2014 case in which Bruce sued the city and lost.
He transferred the deed to Collins on Dec. 4 before the city filed a lien on the property; on Dec. 5, the condo was sold to another party.
Bruce said he wasn't aware of the impending lien until after it was filed, and the city isn't out any money because the lien was filed on other property he owns, including the Colorado Springs home he has lived in for 28 years.
The alleged probation violations cited say he failed to notify his probation officer of those financial transactions and other things.
Other accusations, Bruce said, are that he shared the revenue from the sale of the condominium, which was his late mother's, with his brother.
"That's not a violation of probation," Bruce said. "The terms of my probation say that I am supposed to report any new financial obligation after 2012. My mother died in 2007, so my brothers' interest in her townhouse, once it finally sold, was before."
Bruce said the charges and the arraignment are an effort to discredit him before his appeal is heard in his 2012 conviction.
Bruce is charged with failing to notify his probation officer of:
- contact with law enforcement in El Paso County on June 2;
- a financial disclosure form, as directed;
- the financial obligation to pay his brother proceeds from the sale of their late mother's home;
- a $7,947.52 debt he owed from a ruling Dec. 1;
- the real estate transaction with Collins;
- his financial association with Collins;
-
trending articles
Newsletters

