Haberkip WASHINGTON (AP) — Surveys obtain that men in U.S. special operations forces do not believe ladies can meet the physical and mental demands of their commando jobs, and they worry the Pentagon will lower requirements to integrate women into their elite units,...
AP News - AP Exclusive: Special ops troops doubt females can do the job
WASHINGTON (AP) — Surveys obtain that men in U.S. special operations forces do not believe ladies can meet the physical and mental demands of their commando jobs, and they worry the Pentagon will lower requirements to integrate women into their elite units,...
WASHINGTON (AP) — Surveys obtain that men in U.S. special operations forces do not believe ladies can meet the physical and mental demands of their commando jobs, and they worry the Pentagon will lower requirements to integrate women into their elite units, according to interviews and documents obtained by The Related Press.
Research that surveyed personnel discovered "important misconceptions" inside particular operations about no matter whether ladies should be brought into the male-only jobs. They also revealed concerns that department leaders would "capitulate to political pressure, allowing erosion of training requirements," according to a single document.
Some of those concerns were not restricted to guys, researchers located, but had been found amongst girls in particular operations jobs.
Dan Bland, force management director for U.S. Unique Operations Command, told the AP that the survey benefits have "currently driven us to do some distinctive things in terms of educating the force."
About 68,800 men and women serve in the command, like three,000 civilians. The key survey went to about 18,000 people today who are in positions closed to females, and the response was about 50 %. The high response rate, officials mentioned, reflects the wide interest in the topic.
The studies are aspect of the Pentagon's work to open all military combat positions to females or deliver motives why any jobs ought to remain closed.
One particular survey, by RAND Corp., reflected doubts that ladies could meet the general job demands, discovered concerns that sexual harassment or assault could enhance, and cited worries about "unequal remedy" of special operations candidates and personnel. Some worried that if women have been let in to some jobs, they could be treated far more harshly.
Survey particulars have not been released. This was the first time that officials from Unique Operations Command publicly discussed the results.
Andy Hamilton, who works with Bland and has expertise on this concern, noted that women in particular operations jobs had concerns, also, about the broader integration.
"They're concerned that this may well result in the lowering of the requirements in what are currently our male-only occupations, and that would then reflect on either them or on the females who come into those occupations," stated Hamilton.
Pentagon leaders lifted the ban on ladies in combat jobs in 2012, but gave the military solutions time to integrate girls progressively and systematically into the male-only front-line positions. By January 2016, the military will have to open all combat jobs to females or explain why any exceptions should be created.
Positions inside the particular operations forces, which includes the clandestine Navy SEAL and Army Delta units, are regarded the most grueling and difficult jobs in the military, with coaching and qualifying courses that push troops to their physical, mental and emotional limits. The commandos typically operate in little teams in harsh, remote locations.
As a result, these jobs are some of the final to be addressed as commanders evaluation the qualifications needed and assess the influence of bringing in ladies.
As integration unfolds, the surveys have brought household the reality that there are "some reservations or misperceptions in the force in terms of why we're performing this," Bland stated. Defense officials have stressed that they will not reduce requirements in order to let in ladies.
Girls have so far had mixed benefits as they try to move into the more demanding combat positions — jobs for which guys also have difficulty qualifying.
So far, about 7,200 positions within the unique operations forces have been opened to girls, like combat jobs in the 160th Specific Operations Aviation Regiment, a specialized unit made use of to fly forces rapid, low and deep behind enemy lines at night. For the initially time, a lady last year made it via education and began serving as a pilot in the unit. Three female pilots, 25 women in other jobs, and 16 other girls are now going by means of initial coaching for these helicopter crews, identified as Evening Stalkers.
Most female soldiers do not want combat jobs, an earlier survey found. But among those who do, the Evening Stalkers have been a common choice.
Ladies have moved into Army artillery jobs and serve on Navy submarines and in the naval Riverine units. But none has produced it through the Marine Corps' officer infantry course.
Unique operations command leaders have made it clear that genuine concerns exist about incorporating girls into some jobs.
In 2013, when the arranging was in its infancy, then-Maj. Gen. Bennet Sacolick spoke of demanding nature of missions requiring forces "to operate in smaller, self-contained teams, lots of of which are in austere, geographically isolated, politically sensitive environments for extended periods of time."
In an e mail last month to members of the unique operations forces across the services, Gen. Joseph Votel, head of U.S. Specific Operations Command, said leaders had completed initial analysis on education, facilities, education and other policies. Now, officials are examining "the social and cultural challenges of integrating females" into male-only jobs.
Subsequent, Votel mentioned, officials will analyze requirements for the jobs to make positive standards are precise and gender neutral.
"We will continue in our commitment to give the greatest manned, trained, and equipped specific operations personnel to execute our nation's most challenging and sensitive missions," Votel mentioned. "With that in thoughts, we can assure you that our higher requirements will not be lowered."
Bland mentioned that in addition to Votel's e-mail to service members, leaders have discussed the problem with commanders at frequent meetings so they can superior educate their troops.

