Flores delivers again, Mets beat Phillies 5-4 in 10 innings
New York Mets’ Wilmer Flores (4) runs to first base after hitting an RBI single to during the tenth inning to win a baseball game against the Philadelphia Phillies Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in New York. The Mets won 5-4. ... more >
By MIKE FITZPATRICK -      Associated Press -                                    Wednesday, May 27, 2015
NEW YORK (AP) - Wilmer Flores’ bat is beginning to make up for his glove.
Flores singled home the winning run with two outs in the 10th inning for his second huge hit in two days, giving the New York Mets a 5-4 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies on Tuesday night.
“You’re starting to see a guy who is going to start swinging the bat like we know he can, and he’s going to put up some offensive numbers that people are going to be pretty impressed by,” manager Terry Collins said.
The Mets improved to 19-6 at Citi Field, the best home start in team history, after Jacob deGrom and the bullpen blew a three-run lead in the eighth. They have won seven consecutive series against the Phillies, beating their NL East rivals 19 times in the past 24 meetings.
Juan Lagares led off the 10th with a single against Jeanmar Gomez (0-1) before Elvis Araujo walked Lucas Duda. Daniel Murphy grounded into a double play, but Michael Cuddyer walked and Flores lined a single to left-center.
“I faced the guy before. I was looking for a breaking ball,” Flores said. “He threw it and I was ready for it.”
Flores, who has nine errors at shortstop, also delivered a tying sacrifice fly in the eighth. He snapped a sixth-inning tie Monday with a three-run homer, sending New York to a 6-3 win in the series opener.
“I’m right where I want to be,” he said.
Jeurys Familia (1-0) worked two scoreless innings, his longest outing since last June, with the help of a strong throw by rookie catcher Kevin Plawecki to nab a runner trying to steal.
Maikel Franco capped a four-run rally in the eighth with a two-out RBI single against Carlos Torres that gave the Phillies a 4-3 lead.
“Big moment for him,” manager Ryne Sandberg said. “It was good to see him come through there.”
Philadelphia got five straight hits in the inning, and the Mets used four pitchers. Ben Revere hit a two-run triple off rookie reliever Hansel Robles and scored on Freddy Galvis’ single through a drawn-in infield.
New York responded in the bottom half with Flores’ sacrifice fly against Ken Giles following a leadoff walk to Duda and Murphy’s double.
Franco kept it tied with an outstanding play at third base on a slow roller by rookie pinch-hitter Darrell Ceciliani.
Working on another dazzling start at Citi Field, deGrom was cruising along with a 3-0 lead in the eighth before consecutive one-out singles put a Phillies runner on second base for the first time all night.
Shares
Shares
Related Photos
Question of the Day

