12 detained after fire kills 38 at seniors' home in China
This photo released by China's Xinhua News Agency shows a fire-gutted rest home in Pingdingshan, central China's Henan Province Tuesday, May 26, 2015. A fire swept through the rest home in central China, killing more than 35 people and injuring several, Chinese authorities said Tuesday. The fire broke out Monday night in an apartment building being used as a privately run rest home in the city of Pingdingshan in Henan province, according to a statement from the province's work safety administration. (Zhao Peng/Xinhua via AP) NO SALES
The Associated Press
BEIJING
At least 12 people connected to the privately run home for the elderly in central China where 38 people died in a fire earlier this week have been taken into custody by the police, state media reported Wednesday.
The official Xinhua News Agency reported that the 12 included the legal representative of the Kangleyuan Rest Home, and that police were searching for another three employees.
The fire broke out Monday night in the facility, which housed 51 residents in the city of Pingdingshan in Henan province, the province's work safety administration said in a statement. In addition to the dozens who died, six people were injured, including two in serious condition, the statement said.
A photo of the fire scene released by Xinhua showed that many sections of the facility appeared to have completely burned. Xinhua said the cause of the fire was unclear.
"I was in my bed at the time. Suddenly, I saw a worker run out of a room on fire and he shouted 'Run! Run!' to me, so I dashed out," Guo Xin, 78, was quoted by Xinhua as saying.
Another survivor, 82-year-old Zhao Yulan, said only two of the 11 people living in her room made it out alive, Xinhua reported. Some of the remains of people killed in the fire were burned beyond recognition, the news agency said.
The fire destroyed a part of the home housing people who were completely dependent on others for care. Xinhua quoted 80-year-old resident Chen Runsheng as saying not enough caregivers were working at the facility.
Premier Li Keqiang called on officials across the country to "draw lessons from the accident, checking all potential safety hazards to avoid similar incidents," Xinhua said. Fire officials were ordering inspections of nursing homes, kindergartens, child-care centers, hospitals and what Xinhua called "welfare houses" across the country.
With a rapidly aging population and under-resourced social security net, China faces increasing pressure to provide safe and affordable care for the elderly. Xinhua cited figures showing a severe shortage of caregivers in the country, with 220,000 working in homes for the elderly, while 10 million are needed.
"The tragedy is a sore reminder" that facilities for the elderly are still far behind where they should be, Xinhua said in a commentary on the blaze. The shortage means some people "have no other choice but to live in poorly equipped nursing facilities," it said.
In 2013, a disgruntled resident set fire to a home for the elderly in Heilongjiang province in northeastern China, killing himself and 10 others.
In this photo released by China's Xinhua News Agency, Wu Zhongfeng, an man injured in a fire, receives treatment at a hospital in Pingdingshan, central China's Henan Province Tuesday, May 26, 2015. A fire swept through a rest home in central China, killing more than 35 people and injuring several, Chinese authorities said Tuesday. The fire broke out Monday night in an apartment building being used as a privately run rest home in the city of Pingdingshan in Henan province, according to a statement from the province's work safety administration. (Xinhua via AP) NO SALES

