Legislative panel will study long-range plan for bicycle paths, possible safety improvements
By LAURA HANCOCK  Casper Star-Tribune
April 11, 2015 - 1:26 pm EDT
CASPER, Wyoming — Long gone are the days when cyclists pedaled through Wyoming with only a bag of granola for nourishment, said Rep. Tim Stubson, R-Casper.
These days, some cyclists pay thousands of dollars to tour the Cowboy State. They are working professionals with disposable income to spend on food and beverage while taking in Wyoming's scenery.
"Some of my colleagues in the Legislature may have an outmoded view of who those bicycle tourists are," Stubson said, referring to comments he heard from lawmakers about cyclists.
Stubson, Sen. Charlie Scott, R-Casper, and others hope a study before a legislative committee in coming months will convince their colleagues that bicycle tourism is on the rise and that Wyoming will miss out on an economic opportunity if the state doesn't act.
After a deadly 2014 for cyclists in Wyoming, and modest gains in the Legislature to improve safety, the Joint Transportation, Recreation, Wildlife and Cultural Resources Committee will study a long-range plan for bicycle pathways and possible safety improvements for cyclists.
People from around the world ride in the Tour de Wyoming, an event that brings 400 cyclists to routes around the state, said the event's director, Amber Travsky.
There have been accidents in the tour's 18 years, she said. The state should create programs for cycling similar to those promoting motorcycle awareness.
In 2014, five cyclists from Cheyenne to Jackson - including two in Natrona County - were killed on Wyoming roads.
Bike tourism is becoming even bigger in Wyoming, but at the same time the state sinks lower in bike-friendly rankings, Stubson told the Casper Star-Tribune ( http://bit.ly/1aBQTil ).
In the session that ended in March, the Legislature passed a law requiring drivers to maintain at least 3 feet of separation when overtaking and passing a bicycle.
Yet another bicycle bill failed by one vote in the House, after clearing the Senate, that would have required a comprehensive study of bicycle safety and the building of the statewide bike path system.
Scott said he hopes the Travel committee will ultimately craft a bill similar to the one that was narrowly defeated, with an emphasis on safety and mapping a statewide bike path that would connect Wyoming communities to each other via existing paths.
Revenues are down due to lower energy prices. But Scott doesn't think much state money would be necessary. Federal grants and private donations could support the effort, he said.
Scott would like the Legislature to create a group with safety experts and others interesting in bike tourism to work out the details of a statewide path, such as detouring bicycles off of highways in areas with narrow bridges, he said.
Cycling supporters and state tourism leaders need to voice more support than they did in the 2015 session, Scott said.
"There's quite a bit of support for this around the state," he said. "It would be to let these people have their say and build the kind of political support to pass the thing."
Several Wyoming communities have paths and trails for bikes, or are in the process of developing them including Dubois, Sheridan, Casper, Cody, Green River and Evanston, said Tim Young of Wyoming Pathways, which works for people who bicycle and walk.
"One of the things (the Transportation committee) can look at is how can the state of Wyoming assist in these really valuable community projects," he said. "An interim study I think is a good way to do that."
Information from: Casper (Wyo.) Star-Tribune, http://www.trib.com
Think your friends should see this?  Share it with them!
Story copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Feedback, Corrections and Other Requests: AP welcomes feedback and comments from readers.  Send an email to info@ap.org and it will be forwarded to the appropriate editor or reporter.
We also have more stories about:
(click the phrases to see a list)
Follow The Republic:
All content copyright ©2015 The Republic, a division of Home News Enterprises unless otherwise noted.
 
 
 
 
 

