Brady Mccombs, Associated Press
gallery_thumbnails_show|article-gallery-6178790|article-gallery-6178790|0
gallery_overlay_open|article-gallery-6178790|article-gallery-6178790|0
gallery_overlay_open_thumbs|article-gallery-6178790|article-gallery-6178790|0
Image 1 of 6
President Thomas S. Monson of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, right, shakes hands with Boyd K. Packer, president of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, during the opening session of the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file in and out of the church's conference center over five sessions Saturday and Sunday.
Photo: Rick Bowmer, AP
President Thomas S. Monson of The Church of Jesus Christ of...
Image 2 of 6
President Thomas S. Monson of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, center, is flanked by President Henry B. Eyring, First Counselor in the First Presidency, left, and Dieter F. Uchtdorf, Second Counselor in the First Presidency during opening session of the two-day Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 Mormons descended on Salt Lake City for the faith’s biannual conference to listen to spiritual guidance from leaders and to learn about church news.
Photo: Rick Bowmer, AP
President Thomas S. Monson of The Church of Jesus Christ of...
Image 3 of 6
People walk past the Salt Lake Temple on the way to the opening session of the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file in and out of the church's conference center over five sessions Saturday and Sunday.
Photo: Rick Bowmer, AP
People walk past the Salt Lake Temple on the way to the opening...
Image 4 of 6
President Thomas S. Monson, of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, waves to the audience during the opening session of the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file in and out of the church's conference center over five sessions Saturday and Sunday.
Photo: Rick Bowmer, AP
President Thomas S. Monson, of The Church of Jesus Christ of...
Image 5 of 6
People walk past the Salt Lake Temple on the way to the opening session of the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file in and out of the church's conference center over five sessions Saturday and Sunday.
Photo: Rick Bowmer, AP
People walk past the Salt Lake Temple on the way to the opening...
Image 6 of 6
The Salt Lake Temple is shown during the opening session of the Mormon church conference Saturday, April 4, 2015, in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file in and out of the church's conference center over five sessions Saturday and Sunday.
Photo: Rick Bowmer, AP
The Salt Lake Temple is shown during the opening session of the...
Mormon leaders outline support for marriage for man-woman
1 / 6
gallery_thumbs_close|article-gallery-6178790|article-gallery-6178790|0
gallery_overlay_close|article-gallery-6178790|article-gallery-6178790|0
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) — Mormon leaders once again used their biannual conference Saturday to outline the faith's commitment to advocate on behalf of the belief that marriage is an institution exclusive to a man and a woman.
That message that has been repeated often in recent years came on a day when two rare events occurred at the Salt Lake City conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter -day Saints.
The first came when the conference kicked off without the usual welcoming address from church President Thomas S. Monson , 87, who officials said chose to reduce the number of speeches he's giving this time. He was present and still scheduled to speak this weekend.
The second occurred when five people stood up in yelled, "Opposed," during a part of the conference when attendees usually raise their hands in unison in a vote of support for church leadership, drawing some gasps by surprised attendees who hadn't seen such a move for decades.
Dieter F. Uchtdorf , the faith's third-highest ranking leader who was at the podium, noted their votes and later reminded that opposers are welcome to express their reasons to regional church leaders.
The opposition group said in a statement that they are unhappy with how few opportunities they have to express concerns to church leaders.
During two sessions of speeches from church leaders, the faith's teachings on marriage took center stage.
L. Tom Perry , a member of the faith's Quorum of the Twelve, cautioned Mormons not to be swayed by a world filled with media and entertainment that makes the minority seem like the majority and tries to make mainstream values seem obsolete.
Perry said strong, traditional families are the basic units of a stable society, a stable economy and a stable culture of values. He said the church would continue to be a leading voice on the issue.
"We want our voice to be heard against all of the counterfeit and alternative lifestyles that try to replace the family organization that God Himself established," said Perry.
D. Todd Christofferson , another member of the quorum, added more on the topic, saying, "A family built on the marriage of a man and woman supplies the best setting for God's plan to thrive — the setting for the birth of children who come in purity and innocence from God."
The quorum is a governing body of the church that is modeled after Jesus Christ 's apostles and serves under the church president and his two counselors.
During his speech, Perry recalled participating in the Colloquium on Marriage and Family in November at the Vatican with other faith leaders. He noted that there exists a shared belief among many faiths about the importance of marriage being between a man and woman.
What sets Mormon belief apart, Perry said, is their belief that marriages and families are forever.
"Our marriage ceremonies eliminate the words 'till death do us part' and instead say, 'for time and for all eternity,'" Perry said.
As acceptance for gay marriage has swelled in recent years and same-sex unions have become legal in dozens of states including Utah, the church's stance on homosexuality has softened.
Church leaders helped push through a Utah law this year that bars housing and employment discrimination against gay and transgender individuals while also expanding protections for the rights of religious groups and individuals. LGBT activists have spent years pushing for a statewide non-discrimination law, but couldn't get traction until LDS leaders made a nationwide call for this type of legislation that combined protections for religious liberties.
But the religion has taken time during conferences to emphasize its insistence that marriage should be limited to unions between a man and a woman, as God created.
In April 2014, Neil L. Andersen of the quorum said, "While many governments and well-meaning individuals have redefined marriage, the Lord has not."
In the October 2013, Dallin H. Oaks of the quorum said human laws cannot "make moral what God has declared immoral."
Perry wasn't the only leader who spoke about marriage Saturday morning.
Boyd Packer , president of the quorum, spoke about the joy of romance and love, preaching "a cookie and a kiss" as key ingredients to successful marriages. Linda Burton , general president of the church's Relief Society , the organization for women, urged spouses to be more caring and compassionate.
At the outset of the conference, Uchtdorf handled the welcome address instead of Monson. Church spokesman Dale Jones said in a statement that Monson chose to reduce his number of talks this weekend.
Monson also missed a meeting church leaders had with President Barack Obama this week during his visit to Utah, a decision church officials said was made to preserve his strength for the conference.
Monson has missed only one other welcoming speech at a conference since he was named president in February 2008. That was at the fall conference in October 2011.
In the Mormon faith, which counts 15 million members worldwide, church presidents are considered living prophets. Monson is the 16th president of a faith founded in 1830.
Monson's wife, Frances Monson, died at the age of 85 in May 2013.
Monson has kept a relatively low profile during his tenure, but he's given dozens of speeches during the conferences.
The biannual Mormon conference runs Saturday and Sunday in Salt Lake City. More than 100,000 people will file through the church's conference center over five sessions.
Videos
6
8

