Emanuel, Garcia campaign throughout Chicago on Easter weekend
Emanuel, Garcia cross city looking for last-minute votes
Garcia tells church neighborhood development need “to end the tale of two cities”
Emanuel campaigns among the people, Easter bunny
Mayor Rahm Emanuel and challenger Jesus "Chuy" Garcia marked a frenetic final weekend of campaigning by making their cases to voters everywhere from Sunday church services and Easter egg hunts to street demonstrations and Wrigley Field .
With the campaign cash raised, the TV ads aired and early voting over, the focus shifted to motivating supporters to get to the polls Tuesday while persuading the few who might still be on the fence to get off of it.
But the rhythm that typically comes with the closing campaign push has been complicated by religious holidays falling over the weekend and most of Chicago's schools starting spring break. The timing of Chicago's first-ever runoff election for mayor also resulted in some colorful scenes, including Emanuel greeting a giant bunny mascot and Garcia speaking from the pulpit on Easter Sunday.
The candidates were more successful this time around convincing supporters to vote early than they were before the first round Feb. 24. When early voting ended Saturday, more than 142,000 voters had already cast ballots, a nearly two-thirds increase from February.
Aides for both campaigns acknowledged they were uncertain whether the increase serves as an indicator that turnout Tuesday would be significantly higher or if it simply signaled voters making sure they did their business before spring break.
Emanuel's get-out-the-vote push is aided largely by ward organizations of supportive alderman and several unions, including operating engineers, plumbers, pipefitters, service workers and firefighters. Garcia is leaning heavily on the Chicago Teachers Union and the Service Employees International Union.
"Everybody will be on the streets. It's going to be teachers, yes, it's going to be truck drivers, it's going to be nurses, working people from all over Chicagoland," Garcia said of Election Day.
Both candidates made their case throughout the weekend, campaigning across the city.
On Sunday, Emanuel attended an afternoon service at Monument of Faith Evangelistic Church on the Southwest Side with wife Amy Rule and campaign co-chairs City Clerk Susana Mendoza and Illinois Secretary of State Jesse White. Emanuel swayed, bobbed his head and clapped along as a 50-member choir loudly sang uplifting hymns.
"Now, since your mayor is a former ballet dancer and since I was enjoying the music, what happens at Monument stays at Monument," Emanuel said to a roar of laughter as he addressed a congregation a few hundred people strong. "I've been in so many Baptist and Evangelical places, my rabbi's now got me on Google maps, tracking me. I'm going to bring some of this back to synagogue."
As the mayor walked out, Pastor Mark Anthony Henton told his congregation, "This election will affect your lives. Jesus wants you to vote."
Garcia spent Easter morning with his family at Epiphany Roman Catholic Church in Little Village, where the Pastor Daniel Long asked Garcia and his wife to come to the front at the end of an hour-long service.
"I can only imagine the pressure that you're under. And if you win, well even more pressure," Long said. "We'll give you an extra dose of holy water."
From there, Garcia headed to Greater Harvest Missionary Baptist Church in Washington Park, where he talked about the need to develop the city's neighborhoods.
"To end the tale of two cities, we must have development and the growth of population in these communities," Garcia said.
Rev. Jesse Jackson and Chicago Teachers Union President Karen Lewis stumped for Garcia over the weekend, including a high-energy stop Saturday at New Mount Pilgrim Missionary Baptist Church on the West Side.
"This is not just a campaign, this is a crusade. This is a cause," Jackson said. "God is using Chuy as an instrument of peace."
Afterward, Jackson and dozens of Garcia's supporters streamed out of the church and started marching in traffic on West Madison Street to an early voting site.
About the same time, Emanuel appeared with Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed, one of the nation's most prominent African-American mayors, with about 75 supporters at a Washington Park community center. In his speech, Reed raised an issue Emanuel has made a central theme of the runoff campaign — an acknowledgment that his personal style has rubbed some Chicagoans the wrong way.
"This guy has a heart for people. Does he convey it as warmly as I believe he should? He probably doesn't. He probably won't win the warm conveyance process," a fiery Reed said. "But who do you want? You want somebody warm and fuzzy? Or do you want somebody who can get it done? When you're in a jam or tough spot and you need to move Chicago forward, the person you want to take your call is Rahm Emanuel."
That echoed the runoff theme of Emanuel's TV ads, which have been airing virtually non-stop since November. Emanuel has raised nearly $23 million for a second term compared to more than $6 million for Garcia.
That disparity is evident in what the campaigns have spent to air commercials in the six weeks of the runoff campaign.
During that period, Emanuel has spent more than twice as much as Garcia on Chicago's five biggest television stations — about $3.5 million to air more than 2,000 campaign ads. That's the equivalent of nearly 17 hours if broadcast back-to-back. Garcia's campaign has spent about $1.7 million to air 913 TV commercials during the runoff, public files of the television stations show.
Garcia, however, did receive some help on TV. Public filings show SEIU spent more than a half-million dollars airing ads attacking Emanuel on ABC-7, CBS-2 and FOX-32 alone during the runoff.
The candidates have done more than just rely on TV ads.
In the last-minute campaigning, the mayor even attended a pair of Easter egg hunts, including one Sunday in the Chicago Women's Park and Gardens in the Prairie District. Children took turns swinging at a pinata as Emanuel was surrounded by children tugging at him as he struck a pose for one of countless pictures. "I'm starting to see what the pinata feels like," he quipped, as a furry Easter bunny mascot lingered nearby.
Meanwhile, Garcia said he was battling "flu-like symptoms" before making a campaign stop Saturday outside a Boys and Girls Club in Little Village. As he talked of how the club was instrumental in the community fighting crime, a driver rolled past the corner, honked and bellowed "Go Chuy!" before peeling away while blaring accordion-driven, Mexican pop music. Everyone laughed.
"Always an entertaining and lively neighborhood," grinned Garcia who like Emanuel ended up at Wrigley Field for Sunday night's Cubs season opener against the Cardinals.
While there were moments of levity, both candidates also remained on the attack.
During the Washington Park rally on Saturday, Emanuel slammed Garcia for what the mayor portrayed as an unwillingness to level with voters about how he would raise revenue after the election.
The mayor zeroed in on a comment Garcia made in a Tribune story published over the weekend. While campaigning last month, Garcia indicated that if he offered up specific tax increases to solve Chicago's pension and budget crises, he would open up himself up to Emanuel attack ads that would cause him to "lose the election right off the bat." Garcia since has said he'd get behind an expansion of the state sales tax and a graduated state income tax, but that didn't stop Emanuel from hammering the challenger on Saturday.
"He says, if I told you what it could do, I won't win (election)," Emanuel said. "Well, if you can't win the election, it ain't very good for us after the election."
Garcia took aim at a similar comment Emanuel made late last week when he suggested Chicago could turn into a "horror flick" without good leadership.
"The reality is that because of his neglect as it relates to public safety in the neighborhoods, far too many of our families that live in neighborhoods find shootings a daily occurrence," Garcia said. "They're living that horror flick every day."
Tribune reporter Rick Pearson contributed.
bruthhart@tribpub.com
cdizikes@tribpub.com
jjperez@tribpub.com

