Follow this author
See their articles on your Seeking Alpha homepage and in your feed.
Real-time alerts on this author
Get their new articles emailed to you as they are published.
Daily digest on all my authors
Get all your favorite authors’ new articles emailed to you in one daily digest.
(65 followers)
Cellular Markets In Maturity: What's Next?
Summary
The recent move of both AT&T and Verizon to acquire non-cellular assets, paints a finishing touch on the previous year of cellular volatility.
Going forward the cellular industry seems poised to shift its focus dramatically from network buildout to vertical and asymmetric consolidation.
Although this will maintain (or increase) volatility in the industry, it also provides an opportunity for perceptive investors to identify opportunities.
The rise of the cellular market has been ongoing for the better part of two decades now. Over that period of time, financial analysts have been able to develop sound financial tools with which telco managers can utilize in order to maximize their returns on capital investments. The lifeblood of growth in the cellular industry began largely in identifying the initial locations to expend capital efforts, followed by a truly nationwide buildout of coast to coast service, and (in the middle) the transition from voice only capabilities into full-on internet mobile connectivity.
64% of American adults now own a smartphone of some kind, up from 35% in the spring of 2011.
With a doubling of the population utilizing smartphones (which essentially requires some form of a data plan) over the previous four years, the cellular industry has witnessed a great increase in competition for these revenue producing plans. Verizon (NYSE: VZ ) has grown considerably over the last decade while AT&T (NYSE: T ) has maintained its decades long hold on telecom services and T-Mobile (NYSE: TMUS ) has come into its own on the discount side against Sprint (NYSE: S ).
The question now relates to the ongoing attempt for managers in the telecom field to continue to produce growth via effective investments - while you can have (as we have had) a doubling from 35% of the population to 64% over the course of four years, you cannot have a doubling of 64% over any time period.
The shift in the population from using mobile devices primarily for voice services to using it as a mobile platform to access the internet has largely provided the returns to drive cellular service providers to build out networks that maximize the online experience (primarily through the increase of download speeds). And as we now have download capabilities that allow for HD video viewing, we must ask: "What's next?"
As more and more smartphone users are accessing video services in some form or another, the first focus of ongoing capital expenditures for cellular network providers relates to increasing capacity. The record sales figures coming out of recent wireless spectrum auctions indicates the scramble to provide for the anticipated growth in this network use.
And while there will likely be some growth in the use of cellular platforms as an accessory to traditional linear television platforms, the data caps and costs on most data plans will produce a financial ceiling for this form of viewership. More likely video uses involve sharing and viewing short videos via social outlets and viewing short news clips.
68% of smartphone owners use their phone at least occasionally to follow along with breaking news events , with 33% saying that they do this "frequently"...67% use their phone to share pictures, videos, or commentary about events happening in their community, with 35% doing so frequently.
The cost of standing still in a moving market
The overall ability of financial analysis (driven largely by quantitative measurements) to accurately predict the return of capital expenditures in an established marketplace (as the cellular industry is) can drive managers to focus ongoing costs on tried and true business profiles. The danger in this method lies in the fact that when an industry begins to reach its mature cycle, continuing with old business practices is paramount to standing still.
Due to the cost constraints of data plans and smartphones, it seems unlikely that we will ever see 100% saturation of these devices in the market - we frankly may not see (for quite some time) much more than a 75% saturation. If this is the case, investments in increasing data capacity or speed (which has largely driven the capex cycle to this point) may begin to produce increasingly sharp drop-offs in ROI.
In the cellular industry, this would first suggest that current prices and estimated values on wireless spectrum may be inflated - the recent past (quite possibly) has conditioned providers toward a race to increase capacity and speed, when future requirements (i.e. ability to produce growth) for these features may be more limited than a financial analysis alone would predict.
It appears as though the major cellular providers are growing more and more aware of this. The shock of the previous spectrum auction has likely motivated managers to take a serious look at how to grow revenues when the growth in cellular (and particularly smartphone) services seem to be closing in on the top of their mature cycle. The simple answer is for managers to seek out business opportunities, either in the form of consolidation or in the form of asymmetric alliances. In other words shore up the supply chain through acquisitions or produce synergies with connected content (or other service) providers.
And so you have AT&T pressing on with the DirecTV (NASDAQ: DTV ) merger; Verizon quickly surprising the market with the AOL (NYSE: AOL ) acquisition; and DISH (NASDAQ: DISH ), fresh off gobbling up vast spectrum allocations, seeking an opportunity to exploit (theoretically with a cellular network provider) the hot mobile market. Even Google (NASDAQ: GOOG ) (NASDAQ: GOOGL ) has joined the race, packaging an alternative cellular offering.
Prospectus for the changing telecom
Regulators have put their foot down on horizontal mergers for cellular network providers. The latest attempt by Sprint and T-Mobile to merge signaled the end of attempts for network consolidation (at least until the political winds change). This (combined with the giant increases in spectrum costs and the decreasing YOY gains in purchasers of data devices and plans) has forced cellular providers to begin looking outside of their own space for growth.
While T-Mobile and Sprint are both primarily focused with catching up to AT&T's and Verizon's post-paid numbers, AT&T and Verizon are looking to eschew the tightening cellular margins by producing alternative desirables to entice customers to increase spending. AT&T is attempting to do this by increasing their (already sizable) footprint in bundling plans with DirecTV, while Verizon has quickened their pace by integrating the asynchronous AOL into their corporate offering.
The question for investors is who will come out on top? From a growth standpoint T-Mobile has dominated the industry for some time while Sprint struggles to turn around a decade-long decline. From an income standpoint, AT&T produces a strong dividend with a solid history of increasing payments, but flirts with unstable payout ratios, and the merger with DirecTV will undoubtedly produce some volatility - whether of the profitable kind remains to be seen. The Verizon merger with AOL has produced very little of either excitement or dread, but is sure to eventually move the bottom line one direction or another.
The first business to make it on a new scene can generally capture a profitable segment for years to come. Yet sometimes a business simply demonstrates the pitfalls of pressing on into unchartered waters. The risk reward for investors regard whether the forays into new markets (or established old ones) will benefit AT&T or Verizon, or if the Sprint/T-Mobile focus on gaining market share will allow them to observe these endeavors by the telecom giants from the side and provide actionable data with which they can use to maximize their own future diversification.
As it is, the significant (and unsustainable) growth in the telecom industry over the past 10 years is almost certainly coming to a close. At the top of such a wild and dense climb, the market is in danger of finding itself packed too tightly and oversaturated. This appears to be the case, although the over-saturation can certainly be mitigated by the development of conjoined offerings. Volatility has increased in this space over the past year. Expect for this to continue for some time longer, as financial models catch up to the telecom cat and mouse.
Seeking Alpha PRO helps fund managers:
Research new investment ideas
Full Name
Work Email
(Assets under Management)
We only use your contact details to reply to your request for more information.
We do not sell the personal contact data you submit to anyone else.
Thank you for your interest in Seeking Alpha PRO
We look forward to contacting you shortly for a conversation.
Thank you for your interest in Seeking Alpha PRO
Our PRO subscription service was created for fund managers, and the cost of the product is prohibitive for most individual investors.  If you are an investment professional with over $1M AUM and received this message in error, click here and you will be contacted shortly.
Thank you for your interest in Seeking Alpha PRO
We look forward to contacting you when we have an individual investor product ready!
Already subscribed to PRO? Sign in here
Symbol
Price
% Chg
Remove

