SpaceX
John Raoux / Associated Press
 
 
SpaceX can now compete for Pentagon contracts against a joint venture owned by Boeing and Lockheed Martin
Entrepreneur Elon Musk has said SpaceX can launch a military satellite for less than $100 million
After a two-year effort, entrepreneur Elon Musk and his upstart company SpaceX won approval from the Air Force on Tuesday to launch the military's most critical satellites.
"This is a very important milestone for the Air Force and the Department of Defense," said Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James. "SpaceX's emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade."
The first opportunity for Hawthorne-based SpaceX to go head-to-head against the Boeing-Lockheed venture could come in June when the Air Force is expected to ask for bids to launch a GPS satellite.
James predicted that the addition of SpaceX as a military launch provider would drive down costs and improve "our military's resiliency."
SpaceX has been trying for years to break the lock that the Boeing-Lockheed venture has had on the military launch contracts. To gain part of the business, the Air Force had required SpaceX to prove it could reliably launch the military's most important satellites — a process called certification.
The Air Force said the certification effort cost more than $60 million and involved 150 people. Among the requirements were three flight demonstrations, 21 major subsystem reviews and 700 audits.
"This is an important step toward bringing competition to national security space launch," Musk said Tuesday in a statement. "We thank the Air Force for its confidence in us and look forward to serving it well."
Boeing and Lockheed once competed against each other for the military launches. But in 2006 the two companies joined forces and created a joint venture known as United Launch Alliance.
Since then, the cost of launching spy satellites and other military spacecraft has become so great that the missions now rank among the nation's most expensive weapons programs.
The Government Accountability Office estimated last year that the average cost for each launch using Boeing and Lockheed rockets had soared to $420 million per mission. Executives at United Launch Alliance dispute that figure, saying the average cost is far less.
Musk has said SpaceX can launch a military satellite for less than $100 million.
Last year, Musk filed a lawsuit against the Air Force, challenging an expensive and exclusive block-buy contract the military gave to United Launch Alliance for more than two dozen satellite launches. Musk agreed to drop the lawsuit in January after the Air Force agreed to open more launches to competition.
SpaceX already has won numerous contracts from NASA, including a $1.6-billion contract to ferry cargo to the International Space Station. Last year, the space agency awarded SpaceX and Boeing separate contracts for flying astronauts to the space station.
United Launch Alliance has blasted more than 90 satellites and other spacecraft into orbit. It has never had a failure.
Comments
Loading


News Ticker
Posted on May 26, 2015 by Laurel Kornfeld
6
SHARES
Sign up to receive our weekly newsletter of the most popular space stories:
After two years of intense reviews by the U.S. Air Force, SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket was granted approval to launch military and spy satellites for the US government.
The decision ends a six-year monopoly on military launches by Lockheed Martin and Boeing, which operate military launches under a joint venture known as United Launch Alliance.
SpaceX, founded by entrepreneur Elon Musk, already has contracts with NASA to transport supplies and eventually crews to the International Space Station (ISS).
Military launches include satellites that enable communication between troops on battlefields.
They constitute the majority of all satellite launches, including commercial and civilian, with a market estimated at $70 billion between now and 2030.
The military currently uses the Atlas V rocket for its launches but will be unable to do so starting in 2019 for any launches related to national security, when a Congressional ban on the system goes into effect.
The ban was instituted because the Atlas V engine uses Russian RD-180 engines.
That opens the door to SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket as an alternative military launch system.
SpaceX says its Falcon 9 launches will cost the government $100 million each as opposed to United Launch Alliance’s cost of $160 million or more for the Atlas V.
Musk welcomed the Air Force decision as “an important step toward bringing competition to national security space launch.”
The opportunity to compete for military launches will come as early as next month, when the Air Force plans to open bidding for the launch of Lockheed-built GPS III satellites.
According to Air Force secretary Deborah James, “SpaceX’s emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade.
 
Author
Laurel Kornfeld is a freelance writer and amateur astronomer from Highland Park, NJ, who enjoys writing about astronomy and planetary science. She studied journalism at Douglass College, Rutgers University, and earned a Graduate Certificate of Science in astronomy from Swinburne University’s Astronomy Online program.
Latest posts by Laurel Kornfeld ( see all )
Laurel Kornfeld is a freelance writer and amateur astronomer from Highland Park, NJ, who enjoys writing about astronomy and planetary science. She studied journalism at Douglass College, Rutgers University, and earned a Graduate Certificate of Science in astronomy from Swinburne University’s Astronomy Online program.
Sign Up for Space News
Sign up to receive our weekly newsletter of the most popular space stories:
More Information
Do you enjoy our interesting articles about space?
Like our Facebook fan-page for occasional updates on your news feed!

