SpaceX
John Raoux / Associated Press
 
 
SpaceX can now compete for Pentagon contracts against a joint venture owned by Boeing and Lockheed Martin
Entrepreneur Elon Musk has said SpaceX can launch a military satellite for less than $100 million
After a two-year effort, entrepreneur Elon Musk and his upstart company SpaceX won approval from the Air Force on Tuesday to launch the military's most critical satellites.
"This is a very important milestone for the Air Force and the Department of Defense," said Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James. "SpaceX's emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade."
The first opportunity for Hawthorne-based SpaceX to go head-to-head against the Boeing-Lockheed venture could come in June when the Air Force is expected to ask for bids to launch a GPS satellite.
James predicted that the addition of SpaceX as a military launch provider would drive down costs and improve "our military's resiliency."
SpaceX has been trying for years to break the lock that the Boeing-Lockheed venture has had on the military launch contracts. To gain part of the business, the Air Force had required SpaceX to prove it could reliably launch the military's most important satellites — a process called certification.
The Air Force said the certification effort cost more than $60 million and involved 150 people. Among the requirements were three flight demonstrations, 21 major subsystem reviews and 700 audits.
"This is an important step toward bringing competition to national security space launch," Musk said Tuesday in a statement. "We thank the Air Force for its confidence in us and look forward to serving it well."
Boeing and Lockheed once competed against each other for the military launches. But in 2006 the two companies joined forces and created a joint venture known as United Launch Alliance.
Since then, the cost of launching spy satellites and other military spacecraft has become so great that the missions now rank among the nation's most expensive weapons programs.
The Government Accountability Office estimated last year that the average cost for each launch using Boeing and Lockheed rockets had soared to $420 million per mission. Executives at United Launch Alliance dispute that figure, saying the average cost is far less.
Musk has said SpaceX can launch a military satellite for less than $100 million.
Last year, Musk filed a lawsuit against the Air Force, challenging an expensive and exclusive block-buy contract the military gave to United Launch Alliance for more than two dozen satellite launches. Musk agreed to drop the lawsuit in January after the Air Force agreed to open more launches to competition.
SpaceX already has won numerous contracts from NASA, including a $1.6-billion contract to ferry cargo to the International Space Station. Last year, the space agency awarded SpaceX and Boeing separate contracts for flying astronauts to the space station.
United Launch Alliance has blasted more than 90 satellites and other spacecraft into orbit. It has never had a failure.
Comments
Loading


Connect
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I've been working as the Social Media Editor and a staff writer at Forbes since October 2011. Prior to that, I worked as a freelance writer and contributor here. On this blog, I focus on futurism, cutting edge technology, and breaking research. Follow me on Twitter - @thealexknapp. You can email me at aknapp@forbes.com
Air Force Certifies SpaceX's Falcon 9 Rocket For Military Launches
SpaceX Falcon 9 lifts off. (Credit: SpaceX)
The United States Air Force announced today that it has certified the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket for national security missions. This certification means that there are now two launch providers capable of competing for military launch contracts. Previously, United Launch Alliance was the only company so certified.
SpaceX should get its first opportunity to compete for Air Force launches in June, when the Air Force expects that it will put out a Request For Proposal for GPS satellite launches.
“This is a very important milestone for the Air Force and the Department of Defense,” said Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James said in a statement. “SpaceX’s emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade. Ultimately, leveraging of the commercial space market drives down cost to the American taxpayer and improves our military’s resiliency.”
SpaceX has been aggressively pursuing the ability to compete for these contracts for some time. The certification process itself has taken about two years. And last spring, the company filed a protest with the United States Court of Federal Claims against the Air Force for awarding a block contract with ULA.
“National security launches should be competitive and not sole-sourced,” CEO Elon Musk said at the time of that filing.
In January 2015, the lawsuit against the Air Force was dropped after the two parties reached an agreement. Former Attorney John Ashcroft mediated the agreement between the two parties.
“This is an important step toward bringing competition to National Security Space launch,” Musk said in a statement about the certification. “We thank the Air Force for its confidence in us and look forward to serving it well.”
Follow me on  Twitter  or  Facebook . Read my Forbes blog  here .
Enter Your Comment
Share

