SpaceX
John Raoux / Associated Press
 
 
SpaceX can now compete for Pentagon contracts against a joint venture owned by Boeing and Lockheed Martin
Entrepreneur Elon Musk has said SpaceX can launch a military satellite for less than $100 million
After a two-year effort, entrepreneur Elon Musk and his upstart company SpaceX won approval from the Air Force on Tuesday to launch the military's most critical satellites.
"This is a very important milestone for the Air Force and the Department of Defense," said Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James. "SpaceX's emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade."
The first opportunity for Hawthorne-based SpaceX to go head-to-head against the Boeing-Lockheed venture could come in June when the Air Force is expected to ask for bids to launch a GPS satellite.
James predicted that the addition of SpaceX as a military launch provider would drive down costs and improve "our military's resiliency."
SpaceX has been trying for years to break the lock that the Boeing-Lockheed venture has had on the military launch contracts. To gain part of the business, the Air Force had required SpaceX to prove it could reliably launch the military's most important satellites — a process called certification.
The Air Force said the certification effort cost more than $60 million and involved 150 people. Among the requirements were three flight demonstrations, 21 major subsystem reviews and 700 audits.
"This is an important step toward bringing competition to national security space launch," Musk said Tuesday in a statement. "We thank the Air Force for its confidence in us and look forward to serving it well."
Boeing and Lockheed once competed against each other for the military launches. But in 2006 the two companies joined forces and created a joint venture known as United Launch Alliance.
Since then, the cost of launching spy satellites and other military spacecraft has become so great that the missions now rank among the nation's most expensive weapons programs.
The Government Accountability Office estimated last year that the average cost for each launch using Boeing and Lockheed rockets had soared to $420 million per mission. Executives at United Launch Alliance dispute that figure, saying the average cost is far less.
Musk has said SpaceX can launch a military satellite for less than $100 million.
Last year, Musk filed a lawsuit against the Air Force, challenging an expensive and exclusive block-buy contract the military gave to United Launch Alliance for more than two dozen satellite launches. Musk agreed to drop the lawsuit in January after the Air Force agreed to open more launches to competition.
SpaceX already has won numerous contracts from NASA, including a $1.6-billion contract to ferry cargo to the International Space Station. Last year, the space agency awarded SpaceX and Boeing separate contracts for flying astronauts to the space station.
United Launch Alliance has blasted more than 90 satellites and other spacecraft into orbit. It has never had a failure.
Comments
Loading


SpaceX gets Certified by US Air Force
US Air Force
Elon Musk's SpaceX has just landed another major milestone. SpaceX is now certified for national security space missions.
The US Air Force announced today that SpaceX can execute national security space missions. Lieutenant General Samuel Greaves, Commander of the Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) and Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space, has announced the certification of Space Exploration Technologies Corporation’s (SpaceX) Falcon 9 Launch System.
SpaceX is now eligible for to get contracted for national security space launch missions. There was only one certified launch provider with the Boeing-Lockheed Martin joint venture , United Launch Alliance (ULA). Now SpaceX is breaking this monopoly. The first upcoming opportunity for SpaceX to compete to provide launch services is projected to be in June when the Air Force releases a Request for Proposal for GPS III launch services.
“This is a very important milestone for the Air Force and the Department of Defense,” said Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James. “SpaceX’s emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade. Ultimately, leveraging of the commercial space market drives down cost to the American taxpayer and improves our military’s resiliency.”
This milestone is the culmination of a significant two-year effort on the part of the Air Force and SpaceX to execute the certification process and reintroduce competition into the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) program.
The Air Force invested more than $60 million and 150 people in the certification effort which encompassed 125 certification criteria, including more than 2,800 discrete tasks, 3 certification flight demonstrations, verifying 160 payload interface requirements, 21 major subsystem reviews and 700 audits in order to establish the technical baseline from which the Air Force will make future flight worthiness determinations for launch.
“The SpaceX and SMC teams have worked hard to achieve certification, said Greaves. “And we’re also maintaining our spaceflight worthiness process supporting the National Security Space missions. Our intent is to promote the viability of multiple EELV-class launch providers as soon as feasible.”
Elon Musk , SpaceX CEO and Lead Designer, stated, “This is an important step toward bringing competition to National Security Space launch. We thank the Air Force for its confidence in us and look forward to serving it well.”
Air Force certifies @SpaceX to compete for launching national security satellites http://t.co/tLYcEDJFPV — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) May 27, 2015
The SMC, located at Los Angeles Air Force Base, Calif., is the U.S. Air Force's center for acquiring and developing military space systems. Its portfolio includes GPS, military satellite communications, defense meteorological satellites, space launch and range systems, satellite control networks, space based infrared systems and space situational awareness capabilities.
Share this Story
5 hours ago
7 hours ago
16 hours ago, 10:34am CDT
19 hours ago, 7:39am CDT
20 hours ago, 5:53am CDT
Comments
Luigi Lugmayr ( Google+ ) is the founding chief Editor of I4U News and brings over 15 years experience in the technology field to the ever evolving and exciting world of gadgets. He started I4U News back in 2000 and evolved it into vibrant technology magazine.
Luigi can be contacted directly at ml@i4u.com.
 

