SpaceX
John Raoux / Associated Press
 
 
SpaceX can now compete for Pentagon contracts against a joint venture owned by Boeing and Lockheed Martin
Entrepreneur Elon Musk has said SpaceX can launch a military satellite for less than $100 million
After a two-year effort, entrepreneur Elon Musk and his upstart company SpaceX won approval from the Air Force on Tuesday to launch the military's most critical satellites.
"This is a very important milestone for the Air Force and the Department of Defense," said Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James. "SpaceX's emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade."
The first opportunity for Hawthorne-based SpaceX to go head-to-head against the Boeing-Lockheed venture could come in June when the Air Force is expected to ask for bids to launch a GPS satellite.
James predicted that the addition of SpaceX as a military launch provider would drive down costs and improve "our military's resiliency."
SpaceX has been trying for years to break the lock that the Boeing-Lockheed venture has had on the military launch contracts. To gain part of the business, the Air Force had required SpaceX to prove it could reliably launch the military's most important satellites — a process called certification.
The Air Force said the certification effort cost more than $60 million and involved 150 people. Among the requirements were three flight demonstrations, 21 major subsystem reviews and 700 audits.
"This is an important step toward bringing competition to national security space launch," Musk said Tuesday in a statement. "We thank the Air Force for its confidence in us and look forward to serving it well."
Boeing and Lockheed once competed against each other for the military launches. But in 2006 the two companies joined forces and created a joint venture known as United Launch Alliance.
Since then, the cost of launching spy satellites and other military spacecraft has become so great that the missions now rank among the nation's most expensive weapons programs.
The Government Accountability Office estimated last year that the average cost for each launch using Boeing and Lockheed rockets had soared to $420 million per mission. Executives at United Launch Alliance dispute that figure, saying the average cost is far less.
Musk has said SpaceX can launch a military satellite for less than $100 million.
Last year, Musk filed a lawsuit against the Air Force, challenging an expensive and exclusive block-buy contract the military gave to United Launch Alliance for more than two dozen satellite launches. Musk agreed to drop the lawsuit in January after the Air Force agreed to open more launches to competition.
SpaceX already has won numerous contracts from NASA, including a $1.6-billion contract to ferry cargo to the International Space Station. Last year, the space agency awarded SpaceX and Boeing separate contracts for flying astronauts to the space station.
United Launch Alliance has blasted more than 90 satellites and other spacecraft into orbit. It has never had a failure.
Comments
Loading


0
0
0
0
The unmanned SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket with Dragon lifts off from launch pad 40 at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Cape Canaveral, Florida on April 14, 2015. Reuters/Scott Audette
The U.S. Air Force announced Tuesday that it has certified SpaceX, a California-based private aerospace manufacturer, to launch national security space missions, including military and spy satellites. The move will allow SpaceX to use its Falcon 9 rocket to execute such high-profile launches, ending a monopoly held by the United Launch Alliance (ULA), a Boeing and Lockheed Martin consortium.
The decision follows two years of discussions, reviews and legal disputes between the U.S. Air Force and SpaceX, Reuters reported . The company will now be able to compete for national security space launch missions as one of two -- ULA being the other -- certified launch providers. SpaceX’s first opportunity to compete against ULA is expected to be in June when the U.S. Air Force will request proposals for launching additional Global Positioning System III satellites.
“SpaceX’s emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade,” Deborah Lee James, the Secretary of the U.S. Air Force, said in a statement. “Ultimately, leveraging of the commercial space market drives down cost to the American taxpayer and improves our military’s resiliency.”
SpaceX will reportedly compete for about a third of these missions, as the company is not expected to be able to launch larger satellites until its bigger rocket, the Falcon Heavy, is built, tested and certified.
The U.S. Air Force said that it had spent over $60 million and dedicated 150 people to the certification effort, which included 2,800 individual tasks, three certification flight demonstrations, 21 major subsystem reviews and 700 audits to establish the technical baseline to help the Air Force better execute plans for future flights.
“This is an important step toward bringing competition to National Security Space launch,” Elon Musk, founder and CEO of SpaceX, said in the statement.
The Air Force-SpaceX collaboration comes nearly a year after the latter sued the U.S. government for awarding a multi-year, $11 billion contract to ULA, despite promises to open up competition, Quartz reported , adding that Musk had hinted at corruption in the contracting process at the time. However, SpaceX reportedly dropped the lawsuit in January after both sides reached an agreement, requiring the U.S. Air Force to be committed to more competition.
According to Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, SpaceX’s certification would help reduce “unjustifiably high” launch costs, and end U.S. reliance on Russia’s RD-180 engines found in ULA's Atlas 5 rocket.
Congress had earlier  mandated  that Russian engines can no longer be used for national security launches after 2019. The law was passed after Russia's annexation of Crimea last year, Reuters reported.
2
4
5
7
Like us
Follow us
Join us

