SpaceX
John Raoux / Associated Press
 
 
SpaceX can now compete for Pentagon contracts against a joint venture owned by Boeing and Lockheed Martin
Entrepreneur Elon Musk has said SpaceX can launch a military satellite for less than $100 million
After a two-year effort, entrepreneur Elon Musk and his upstart company SpaceX won approval from the Air Force on Tuesday to launch the military's most critical satellites.
"This is a very important milestone for the Air Force and the Department of Defense," said Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James. "SpaceX's emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade."
The first opportunity for Hawthorne-based SpaceX to go head-to-head against the Boeing-Lockheed venture could come in June when the Air Force is expected to ask for bids to launch a GPS satellite.
James predicted that the addition of SpaceX as a military launch provider would drive down costs and improve "our military's resiliency."
SpaceX has been trying for years to break the lock that the Boeing-Lockheed venture has had on the military launch contracts. To gain part of the business, the Air Force had required SpaceX to prove it could reliably launch the military's most important satellites — a process called certification.
The Air Force said the certification effort cost more than $60 million and involved 150 people. Among the requirements were three flight demonstrations, 21 major subsystem reviews and 700 audits.
"This is an important step toward bringing competition to national security space launch," Musk said Tuesday in a statement. "We thank the Air Force for its confidence in us and look forward to serving it well."
Boeing and Lockheed once competed against each other for the military launches. But in 2006 the two companies joined forces and created a joint venture known as United Launch Alliance.
Since then, the cost of launching spy satellites and other military spacecraft has become so great that the missions now rank among the nation's most expensive weapons programs.
The Government Accountability Office estimated last year that the average cost for each launch using Boeing and Lockheed rockets had soared to $420 million per mission. Executives at United Launch Alliance dispute that figure, saying the average cost is far less.
Musk has said SpaceX can launch a military satellite for less than $100 million.
Last year, Musk filed a lawsuit against the Air Force, challenging an expensive and exclusive block-buy contract the military gave to United Launch Alliance for more than two dozen satellite launches. Musk agreed to drop the lawsuit in January after the Air Force agreed to open more launches to competition.
SpaceX already has won numerous contracts from NASA, including a $1.6-billion contract to ferry cargo to the International Space Station. Last year, the space agency awarded SpaceX and Boeing separate contracts for flying astronauts to the space station.
United Launch Alliance has blasted more than 90 satellites and other spacecraft into orbit. It has never had a failure.
Comments
Loading


This story is sourced from Flightglobal.com
The SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket has been certified by the US military to put its most important satellites on orbit, injecting long-awaited competition into the multibillion-dollar American national security space launch market that has been dominated for almost a decade by United Launch Alliance .
The US Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center announced May 26 that it had approved SpaceX’s participation in its Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle programme as an alternative rocket provider, concluding a two-year certification process that is five months overdue and involved three Falcon 9 flight demonstrations.
SpaceX is now qualified to compete directly against ULA, a Boeing-Lockheed Martin joint venture, for military space launch opportunities. ULA maintains the Atlas V and Delta IV rockets in accordance with the US policy to maintain at least two rocket systems to guarantee access to space. The company recently announced its construction of a new launch vehicle, the Vulcan.
Air Force Space Command chief Gen John Hyten said at a congressional hearing in April that Falcon 9 is powerful enough to put the lighter one-third of planned US military satellites on orbit.
Air Force secretary Deborah Lee James told the same hearing that certification would allow SpaceX to compete for two launch opportunities funded in fiscal 2015 and another seven missions from fiscal 2016 to 2017.
The first opportunity will come in June with an air force solicitation to put a Global Position System III satellite on orbit, according to a May 26 air force press statement.
“SpaceX’s emergence as a viable commercial launch provider provides the opportunity to compete launch services for the first time in almost a decade,” James said in the press statement, noting that added competition will ultimately drive down launch costs and improve military resiliency.
The air force had expected to certify the Falcon 9 last December, but the process proved to be more complex and time consuming than anticipated. The air force says the effort to certify SpaceX cost more than $60 million and involved about 150 personnel, but will hopefully smooth the path for future rocket certifications, starting with the SpaceX Falcon Heavy. That would allow the company to compete for just about every launch on the US Defense Department manifest.
SpaceX’s entry into the national security space launch market comes amid concern about the continued supply of Russian-made RD-180 rocket motors for the Atlas V launch vehicle and lawsuits over the award of an exclusive, multi-year launch contract to ULA. SpaceX dropped that legal pursuit in January after reaching an agreement with the air force.
“This is an important step toward bringing competition to national security space launch,” SpaceX chief executive Elon Musk said in the air force press statement. “We thank the air force for its confidence in us and look forward to serving it well.”
More on this story:
Jobs &
training
Copyright © 2015

