High property tax bills, issue of pension costs not enough to get out the vote
A candidate for the local school board stood outside the Orland Park Sportsplex, the largest polling place in the Southland, in the cold and rain Tuesday morning, looking desperately for a potential voter to give her campaign literature to.
"There have been maybe a dozen voters," she told me at 8 a.m. "It's been horrible."
It's all about the children, people will tell you. Everything we do is for them.
Property tax bills are too high, they say. Teachers make too much money, their pensions are too good and the schools aren't good enough. Yet just about everyone in the suburbs will tell you they moved there because of the schools.
However, on Tuesday, most of those people didn't show up at the polls to vote for the people who will run their school districts, vote on teacher pay raises and decide whether property tax bills should increase.
And all of those districts had contested school board races.
I have to admit it's something of a mystery to me why suburbanites, who vocally and without prompting complain about anything connected to their public schools, stay away in large numbers whenever there's an election to select the people who will run them.
In the polls I stopped in on Tuesday morning, the results were similar. Two people had voted. Three people had voted. Five people had voted.
"We only had 18 people in our precinct so far, it's just awful," an election judge in Tinley Park told me around 9 a.m.
I informed her that was by far the largest turnout I had come across to that point.
Election judges, who are mostly good people who work long hours for very little money out of a sense of public service, tried to come up with reasons why their neighbors were staying away.
"A lot of people are on spring vacation and may be away from home." "Maybe a lot of people voted by mail." "Early voting," I heard time and again. "A lot of people are early voting these days."
Well, not all that many, really. There were 36,099 suburban ballots cast in early voting this year, according to the Cook County clerk's office, which oversees suburban elections in Cook County. That's down from 40,693 early votes cast during the 2013 local elections but up from the 21,279 early voting ballots in 2011.
"It's a matter of how many mayoral races there are and whether there's a special congressional election, like the 2nd District had to replace Jesse Jackson Jr., or a referendum that gets people to the polls," county Clerk David Orr said. "People vote in larger numbers if there's an election that drives turnout. There aren't very many mayoral contests this year in the suburbs."
I'm sure Orr is right about mayoral races generally driving up turnout. But it could be argued that mayors, as important as they are, don't have the sort of impact on a community as the quality of its schools.
Bill Smith — the superintendent in Alsip, Hazelgreen, Oak Lawn District 126 for 31 years before he retired — said he doesn't think school districts do as good a job of communicating with the public as they should.
"I became a school superintendent in 1959, and we had referendums in 1961, 1964, 1966, 1968 and 1972," Smith said. "Those were referendums to raise money to build school buildings. You had to go to referendum to get the money to do that back in those days.
"We won every one of those referendums because my school board was out there meeting with the public all the time, telling them why we needed their support."
"I'm not talking about communicating with parents," Smith said. "School districts are always communicating with the parents. But they don't do a good enough job of reaching out to the rest of the community to get their support."
But elections aren't just about supporting a school district. They're about expressing dissatisfaction with all the stuff people are always complaining about.
This year, there was some really aggressive campaigning in school board elections. Mailboxes were stuffed with campaign literature in many communities. There were robocalls, campaign signs and letters from prominent elected officials urging people to vote for different candidates.
But less than one of every five registered voters came out to the polls on Election Day.
And remember, it's easier to vote than it has ever been in this nation's history. You don't have to vote on Election Day. You can cast your ballot weeks before the election during early voting at polling places throughout Cook County. You can vote by mail. It's not just a one-day event any more.
At some point in the future, it's likely that people will vote from home, using iPads, smartphones or some gizmo that hasn't even been invented yet. Hey, maybe you'll be prompted to vote by a pop-up that appears on a video screen while you're playing Game of War or watching the NCAA Tournament.
All right, that's not going to happen. People don't want their video gaming or sports viewing interrupted by election junk. If we could block those political commercials, we would do it.
I used to always urge people to vote. I would tell people it was their civic duty and people had died fighting for that right, blah, blah, blah.
Not any more. I've come to realize that most people would rather complain than be part of the process. They don't have the time to study the issues or the candidates and really hate the idea that there may be no clear-cut answers to anything.
That's why a lot of people who do vote are simply voting against higher taxes or against some politician they dislike, rather than weighing all the issues involved in a campaign. That stuff gives them a headache.
"You know who wins if you don't vote?" Smith said. "The politicians and their organizations. Because their patronage workers will get out the vote."
That may be why politicians such as state Rep. Robert Rita, D-Blue Island, back entire slates of candidates for school district races. They're pretty easy elections to influence because so many voters stay home.
When I hear people complain about the public schools, a lot of what they say is based on misinformation, or the latest headline in a newspaper, something like "School teacher earns pension of $110,000 a year."
The average teacher pension is about $51,000, which is pretty nice, but most people don't know that.
And the really odd thing is that despite all the complaining, opinion polls usually show that most people in the suburbs like their public schools. Threaten to cut funding to their schools and just watch them scream in anger.
About 10 years ago, a statewide poll showed that about 60 percent of the people in Illinois supported a state income tax increase if the new money would support education.
So you have all these contradictions. People hate the way the schools are run. People support public education. People think teachers are overpaid. People want their children to have the best education possible. Voters say they're tired of property tax increases. But they don't vote in school board elections that could largely determine whether their property tax bills rise.
It sort of makes you wonder how much better, or worse, things would be if, say, 50 percent of the voters decided to cast ballots.
Comments
Loading

