The Manchurian Duck, Part 2
Is Michele Bachmann's comparison of Barack to the recent suicide pilot locking himself in the cockpit and taking everyone down with him not a perfect analogy?
Well, Obama has made HIS own Iran nuke ‘deal’ – and, just as Congresswoman Bachmann has observed, he’s locked himself in the cockpit. Now all that’s left of the free world gets to ride this disaster down – apart from having much say in the matter.
Nearly a year ago, I quoted the hackneyed saying “if it walks, talks, acts and quacks like a duck – it is most probably a duck.” Amil Mazey, former head of the United Auto Workers, is credited with having used that adage in identifying Communists – the same reason I had used it.
And that brings us to today’s topic.
Advertisement-content continues below
If so much of our president’s behavior is so precisely similar to that of the nefarious ‘plant’ Americans were awakened to in movies like “The Manchurian Candidate,” why do so many of our citizenry, press, and government insist upon giving him the benefit of the doubt? I can answer that.
Reiterating yet another quote from the horse’s mouth, I have to wonder what the man has to say to FINALLY invite a full investigation into what is obviously seditious behavior and collusion with the enemies of our nation!
The notion that my White House would purposely release classified national security information is offensive. It’s wrong. And people I think need to have a better sense of how I approach this office and how the people around me here approach this office.
Advertisement-content continues below
To which airbag rhetoric our ailing nation should immediately respond: “You’re OFFENDED?! YOU have given us that notion – and if we need a ‘better sense’ of how you and your administration approach the presidency, certainly YOU should be the man providing us with that!”
I so often hear people – pundit to politico – calling the actions of our current leader ‘madness,’ ‘inept,’ ‘unschooled,’ ‘inexperienced,’ ‘stupid,’ and so on – but none of that fits. And I understand our reluctance to call this ‘duck’ a ‘duck.’ I’ve been guilty of it myself! It’s quite simply that very few Americans are willing to face the hard fact that we have, for so many years, been so asleep at the switch that we have allowed our nation’s security to be compromised and violated at its very core!
I mean, as we speak and helplessly watch, our president is working overtime to hand some of the world’s most ruthless, volatile thugs the keys to long-range atomic weaponry. And in such a lamebrain response, so many of this nation’s self-styled ‘isolationists’ are satisfied to join Barry in his antisemitism and ignore the wisdom of Israel’s recent address before the United Nations:
Once Iran produces a nuclear bomb, all the charms and all the smiles will suddenly disappear. They will just vanish. And it’s then that the ayatollahs will show their true face and unleash their aggressive fanaticism on the entire world. There is only one responsible course of action to address this threat. Iran’s nuclear military capabilities MUST be fully dismantled.
It becomes painfully clear that Obama’s consistent flying in the face of reason is not at all due to any mental handicap or lack of experience – but, rather, he is adamantly fulfilling his own preferred agenda.
Israel, the last outpost of Western civilization parked in the land of the avowed enemies of the West and anything that runs counter to Islam, is tantamount to being just the first speedbump in reaching America with invisible-to-radar atomic missiles. Obama – who has stripped our defenses to bare bones – is setting this up because he knows that a generally distracted and addle-brained America will let him get away with it.
Back during, say, Ronald Reagan’s or George Bush’s – or heck, even Bill Clinton’s – administration, do you suppose recent remarks (like those of Russian Doctor of Military Science Konstantin Sivkov or President Putin) regarding the EASY nuclear destruction of the United States would have even publicly escaped their lips (and then be so casually ignored by our media and government)?
So if our president – after breaking our economy, assaulting our Constitution, flipping our global relationships, and now empowering the enemies of our ally and indeed ourselves – is walking, talking, looking, and acting like an enemy of all light and freedom, isn’t it about time that we identify this bird by his feathers? Is Michele Bachmann’s comparison of Barack to the recent suicide pilot locking himself in the cockpit and taking everyone down with him not a perfect analogy?
Here, pause and reflect.
So, ‘Obama is crazy’? He’s ‘inept’ – ‘doesn’t know what he’s doing’?
Do you want to bet on that?
The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by WesternJournalism.com.
Don't Miss Out. Subscribe By Email Or Facebook
Email
Email*
Facebook
Comments
comments
About the Author Dave Merrick
Dave Merrick is a child of God by the adoption provided exclusively through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ  He is a proud father of three wonderful Christian children. Dave is a gifted, nationally published portrait, wildlife and illustration artist, a writer and a veteran of 35 years involvement with counter-cult apologetics and comparative religious research. Further, in high school he once accidentally stepped on the foot of a very good-natured and forgiving, Gov. Ronald Reagan.
Don’t Miss Out Ever. Subscribe To Get It First
Email
Email*
Facebook
Trending
Watch

