Originally published April 4, 2015 at 1:45 pm
The contrast between Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel and challenger Jesús “Chuy” García is stark as they debate who is best-suited to lead a city beset by financial storm clouds, street violence and a deep divide between its vibrant downtown and economically depressed neighborhoods.
CHICAGO — If the Chicago mayoral campaign of Jesús “Chuy” García is remembered for nothing else, it might be the way he slapped down Mayor Rahm Emanuel in a recent debate with references to Darth Vader and imperiousness.
García ripped into Emanuel, the first-term mayor and former White House chief of staff, for offering protected land fronting Lake Michigan to “Star Wars” creator George Lucas for a movie memorabilia and art museum.
“The monument to Darth Vader I oppose,” said García, a member of the Cook County Board. He accused Emanuel of acting “by fiat,” adding: “You’re not the king of the city.”
By coming out swinging, the normally low-key García may have given voice to voter qualms about the unabashedly brash Emanuel that denied him re-election outright in February and forced him into Tuesday’s runoff.
Most Read Stories
The question facing García is whether the new in-your-face approach comes too late, after weeks in which his lightly funded campaign was unable to match an Emanuel advertising barrage depicting the mayor as a man of action and the challenger as a lightweight.
A Chicago Tribune poll showed Emanuel gaining steam in the homestretch, with 58 percent of likely voters favoring his re-election, to 30 percent for García. The results reflected a big racial and ethnic divide, with Emanuel the choice of 72 percent of white voters and 53 percent of black voters, while 52 percent of Latino voters favored García.
The contrast between the Emanuel and García is stark as they debate who is best-suited to lead a city beset by looming financial storm clouds, significant street violence and a deep divide between its vibrant downtown and economically depressed neighborhoods.
Emanuel is the short-fused political savant with gold-plated connections to political royalty like the Clintons and President Obama. García is the neighborhood guy with a lengthy but modest public résumé who holds to the liberal values he embraced as an ally of the late Harold Washington, Chicago’s first African-American mayor.
García’s candidacy is a direct outgrowth of resentments over Emanuel’s stewardship of public schools, which have more than 396,000 students, the vast majority of whom are poor and minorities.
To cut costs, Emanuel closed 50 neighborhood schools in one fell swoop, one of several controversial school actions he said were aimed at conserving scarce resources and improving an educational system that had shortchanged students. The closings antagonized many parents and the influential Chicago Teachers Union, which viewed them as steps toward privatization and union busting.
Union President Karen Lewis recruited García into the mayor’s race last fall after a cancer diagnosis forced her to drop her own plans to challenge Emanuel.
The matchup between Emanuel and García is one fraught with symbolism and irony.
García, born in Durango, Mexico, but raised in Chicago, would be the city’s first Latino mayor. His political career dates to the 1980s when, as a community organizer, he drummed up Latino support for Washington’s mayoral bid and then, with Washington’s help, won election to City Council.
He later served two terms in the state Legislature before being targeted for defeat by a Latino political group allied with former Mayor Richard Daley. He then spent a decade at the helm of a nonprofit involved in such issues as housing, immigration and voting rights facing residents of his West Side neighborhood, known as Little Village.
García was the identity of the group, now known as Enlace, former officials said. “He was extremely charismatic,” recalled Jorge Cestou, the group’s former executive director. Enlace’s finances suffered over time and García departed, first taking a state job and then returning to elected office as a county commissioner.
“We are on the cusp of a major statement to be made to the rest of the country; that we won’t tolerate the types of cronyism and corporate welfare that has come to exemplify the reign of Rahm Emanuel,” García said during a fundraising swing through Los Angeles and Santa Monica.
He pursued the theme in a recent television ad: “The big-money guys already have a mayor who listens to them,” he proclaims. “I will be a mayor who listens to you.”
Emanuel argues that he has been willing to do unpopular things to unravel an inherited financial and policy mess. The mayor has chided García for offering mostly vague policy prescriptions while also raising doubts about how the challenger could wrest money-saving concessions from the same public-employee unions so crucial to his campaign.
That does point to an intriguing dilemma for García as he argues that his cautious and more collaborative personal style can deliver better results in a city where voters have grown accustomed to tough and forceful political bosses.
“He’s an odd bird in the sense that he’s got two traits you rarely find in politicians these days, which are honesty and humility,” said Maurice Sone, an attorney who oversees a Little Village community group that García led years ago. “Don’t let his soft demeanor surprise you. … He’s not confrontational. He just has a different way.”
García’s message may not be sinking in with voters beyond his core supporters, based on the latest Chicago Tribune polling. Asked which candidate was more “in touch” with people like themselves, voters were essentially split.
The disparity in campaign fundraising could be fueling the widening gap in the polls. Emanuel has raised more than $20 million, much of it from donors who get some sort of City Hall benefit, to fund a relentless television and radio ad campaign. García has raised more than $5 million and only recently began broadcast ads.
Editorial

