Hillary Clinton email scandal underscores State Department cybersecurity woes
Private home server likely nearly as secure as official ones at Foggy Bottom, experts say
Hillary Rodham Clinton said last month that her use of a private email server didn’t include any classified information. She said the server hosting the account was in a private building that was protected by the U.S. Secret Service. (Associated ... more >
By Kellan Howell -      The Washington Times -                                    Thursday, April 2, 2015
Lost in the controversy over Hillary Rodham Clinton ’s private email server and the possible security issues has been repeated warnings that the State Department ’s official computers remain woefully unprepared for cyberattacks despite repeated warnings from its internal watchdog and outside experts.
Last month, the State Department had to shut down its internal unclassified email as it was still doing system repair work from a Russian attack it suffered last year. In November, the agency conducted a similar clean-up exercise after Russian hackers invaded its systems, in what federal law-enforcement and intelligence officials say was the “worst ever” cyberattack against a federal agency.
In October — the month Russian hackers took over State’s system with malware — its inspector general reported that the State Department had ignored hundreds of recommendations to improve its cybersecurity over several years, with investigators identifying security weaknesses in more than 100 different systems.
Ironically, experts say, Mrs. Clinton ’s email server at her suburban New York home in Chappaqua might not have been much less secure than the official ones at State, given the lapses at Foggy Bottom.
“Given the fact that every two years the Chinese or the Russians succeed in getting into the State server it’s not clear it [ Mrs. Clinton ’s server] made that much difference,” said James Lewis , director and senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, and a former State Department employee.
“Most email is not secure, so it’s hard to get excited about unclassified emails. If she’s writing about foreign policy that is more specific and intelligence matters that would be a bigger deal,” Mr. Lewis said.
The State Department said as a matter of policy, it doesn’t discuss specific security measures for its IT infrastructure but that it continually upgrades its system to stay ahead of malicious actors.
“The Department takes seriously its responsibility to safeguard its information and continuously takes steps to ensure information is protected. We are implementing a strategy to harden and modernize the Department ’s infrastructure to better protect its data, not only today and tomorrow, but well into the future,” said Julia Straker, a spokeswoman for the department .
When it comes to transferring classified, sensitive communications, the State server is better than one in your backyard, cyberexperts concede.
“A State Department server is still more secure than a private server,” said Bob Gourley, a former chief technology officer of the Defense Intelligence Agency. “They will eventually be found if they are penetrating a State Department system.”
Last month, Mrs. Clinton said her use of a private email server didn’t include any classified information. She said the server hosting the account was in a private building that was protected by the U.S. Secret Service.
According to Mr. Gourley, the problems plaguing the State Department ’s IT systems boil down to one word, “leadership.”
A good IT leader should build a roadmap with a strict timeline for security improvement, Mr. Gourley explained, and could look to reports from the Inspector General for guidance. Right now, there’s no one at the State Department taking responsibility for that.
In its most recent audit on cybersecurity, the State Department ’s IG wrote that while the agency had made some strides in improving its security, it still ignored key concerns that had piled up over the years.
“Although we acknowledge the department ’s actions to improve its information security program, we continue to find security control deficiencies in multiple information security program areas that were previously reported in FY 2010, FY 2011, FY 2012, and FY 2013. Over this period, we consistently identified similar control deficiencies in more than 100 different systems,” investigators wrote in the audit.
You Might Also Like
Related Stories
Question of the Day
Is President Obama right that a nuke deal with Iran will make U.S. safer?
Question of the Day
Kellan Howell, an investigative reporter for The Washington Times, covers campaign finance and government accountability. Originally from Williamsburg, Va., Kellan graduated from James Madison University where she received bachelor’s degrees in media arts and design and international affairs with a concentration in western European politics.
During her time at JMU, she interned for British technology and business news website “ITPro” ...
Latest Stories
Most Popular

