ALBANY—Governor Andrew Cuomo confirmed Thursday that Matt Driscoll will replace Joan McDonald as commissioner of the state's Department of Transportation, and announced a slew of other administration changes.
Capital reported Wednesday that McDonald, a former Connecticut official who was appointed by Cuomo in 2011, is leaving after a dispute with the governor over snow removal in Buffalo. Driscoll was formerly the mayor of Syracuse, and has been running the state's Environmental Facilities Corporation—which took heat for approving a loan to support the replacement of the Tappan Zee Bridge—for the last four years.
“These individuals will help build upon the progress that has been made over the last four years by bringing new ideas and new innovations to the administration as we seek to further expand opportunity for all New Yorkers,” Cuomo said in a statement. “I welcome them to the team and look forward to working with them to move this state forward.”
Driscoll will step in as Karen Rae, the governor's deputy secretary for transportation, departs. Rae, according to the press release, will become a “senior advisor for innovative project delivery” at Empire State Development. She has been trying to leave the Executive Chamber, the term for Cuomo's closest aides, for some time. There was talk last year that Rae would take a position with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and in January she was tasked with managing the Thruway Authority amid a leadership change.
MORE ON CAPITAL
ADVERTISEMENT
Taking Rae's place is Ron Thaniel, a private transportation consultant and one-time aide to the U.S. Conference of Mayors. He also has worked for Amtrak and advised former Minneapolis Mayor Sharon Sayles Belton. The administration has been searching for some time for someone to fill the post.
Cuomo also announced Lola Brabham would become executive deputy commissioner of the Department of Civil Service, and Christopher Schoepflin was appointed president of USA Niagara.
The administration said three lawyers have been named ethics, risk and compliance officers at three agencies: Adam Silverman at the Department of Corrections and Community Supervision, Barbara Comminos Kruzansky in the Office of Children and Family Services and Felisa Hochheiser at Empire State Development.
There were also changes among Cuomo's political advisers. The Daily News reported that Drew Zambelli, the governor's in-house pollster, would step down as “counselor” and return to a private firm. Earlier this year, Cuomo elevated one of his longtime aides, special counsel Linda Lacewell, to the “counselor” position.
Separately, the Cuomo-controlled Democratic State Committee announced that Basil Smikle, a longtime political operative, would take over as executive director. He replaces Rodney Capel. Smikle has perviously advised Michael Bloomberg as well as Bill and Hillary Clinton.
In 2010, Smikle challenged State Senator Bill Perkins in a Democratic primary for his Harlem seat. The race quickly became a proxy fight between charter school supporters, who backed Smikle, and unionized teachers who backed Perkins. Perkins prevailed; Cuomo has been unabashed in his support of charter schools.
“Basil is a national-caliber political operative and we are lucky to have him leading day-to-day operations for the State Democratic Party,” said former Gov. David Paterson, the party chairman. “Basil combines a mastery of public policy with an inherent feel for communities throughout New York State. With his impressive academic credentials as a policy thinker and his vast experience in electoral politics, he will play a key role in leading Democratic efforts heading into the 2016 election cycle.”
Here is the press release on Cuomo's administration appointments: http://on.ny.gov/1aa9dP7

