UPDATE 2-Vox Media acquiring tech news website Re/code
(Adds Vox Media descriptor, paragraph on Comcast's exchange of Re/code stake for Vox Media shares)
LOS ANGELES May 26 (Reuters) - Vox Media, owner of The Verge and other websites, is acquiring Revere Digital, the company that owns technology news website Re/code, according to a post on the Re/code website on Tuesday.
Comcast Corp's NBCUniversal exchanged its minority interest in Re/code for shares in Vox Media, a source familiar with the transaction said.
"We want to assure you that this combination is designed to bolster and enrich Re/code, and that we will continue to publish under the same name and leadership, with editorial independence," Re/code journalists Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher wrote. ( bit.ly/1FVS62i )
Vox Media confirmed the purchase in a press release. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Re/code said it would occasionally collaborate with The Verge, Vox Media's tech news website. While Re/code will focus on the business of technology, The Verge will cover technology from a lifestyle perspective, Re/code said on Tuesday.
Re/code will continue to hold its Code conferences, industry conferences where the journalists interview top technology executives, the statement from the website said. It will eventually migrate to Vox Media's publishing platform, which it said will provide new ways to present news.
When Re/code was launched 18 months ago, Mossberg and Swisher held majority ownership, with Comcast Corp's  NBCUniversal and Windsor Media sharing a minority stake.
(Reporting by Lisa Richwine in Los Angeles and Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bengaluru; Editing by Cynthia Osterman and Anupama Dwivedi)
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


The Vox Media-Re/code deal, explained by Vox Media’s CEO
Updated by Ezra Klein on May 26, 2015, 9:21 p.m. ET @ezraklein
Vox Media's CEO, Jim Bankoff, sits between Re/code's Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher. Photo via Re/code
On Tuesday night, Vox Media — the parent company of Vox.com — announced it was purchasing Re/code , the technology site/conference juggernaut started by Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher. Jim Bankoff, the CEO of Vox Media, sent a companywide note laying out the deal — how it will work, why it's happening, and what it means for both sides. His note was helpfully formatted as a Vox explainer, and with his permission, it appears, with light edits for clarity, here.
(For more on the Re/code deal, read this piece by Nilay Patel, editor of Vox's sister site The Verge, and marvel at his exceptionally tight gif game, or watch Walt Mossberg, Kara Swisher and Jim Bankoff announce the acquisition at the Code Conference in California.)
What is Re/code?
Re/code is probably the most respected and influential tech news media brand among business and C-suite audiences. It launched about sixteen months ago and has grown steadily. Unlike  The Verge , which is going after a broad and large consumer audience by being the most widely-respected technology lifestyle media brand, Re/code's strength is with technology and business elites and leaders.
In addition to their digital presence, Re/code also runs the most successful and prestigious conference business in tech, featuring its flagship Code Conference which began tonight. Re/code is led by Kara Swisher and Walt Mossberg, who started the successful AllThingsD business and have had long and impressive careers as journalists. They have a team of about forty-five people who will shortly be Vox Media employees.
Why are we doing this?
1. Vox Media is built around empowering the most talented digital voices — from our beginnings as a network of sports bloggers in SB Nation through our launch of The Verge, Polygon, acquisition of Curbed LLC and launch of Vox.com, we've been all about building media brands through the combination of media hackers, platform and culture. The addition of Kara, Walt and the rest of the Re/code team is a natural progression of our focus.
2. We are strengthening our leadership in tech coverage with the addition of Re/code. The Verge is already the preeminent digital tech/lifestyle media brand, with tremendous growth under Nilay's leadership, reaching a consumer audience of over 24.5 million unique visitors in April and generating 40 million video views each month. With the addition of Re/code, we will extend our leadership of comprehensive tech coverage online, with Re/code's unparalleled expertise in tech business news, to complement the broad consumer appeal of The Verge.
3. Conferences: Re/code is the undisputed leader in tech business conferences across substance, access, and quality. Vox Media will leverage Re/code's leadership in this space and explore ways to apply it to our other media brands.
4. Re/code will benefit from joining Vox Media, integrating Vox Media's various capabilities including marketing, communications, audience development, sales, and production. Their clients will become ours and will benefit from Vox Creative's solutions. Re/code will eventually migrate to Chorus and will be another shining example of the power of our platform.
Wait, we already have one of the biggest tech sites, why do we need another?
If you've read this far, you've gathered that The Verge and Re/code have a very different focus. In fact, per Comscore, there is only a 4% audience overlap between the two properties.  The Verge is a big consumer-focused media brand covering all aspects of tech culture, from science, to entertainment, to transportation and more.
Re/code's focus is on the business of tech from M&A to enterprise, executive movement and corporate strategy. The tech category is big and valuable, with some strong competition. Between The Verge and Re/code we are undisputed leaders with the momentum to go much further together.
What about reviews? Re/code does product reviews, don't they?
We are going to move the amazing review team on Re/code and have them join The Verge. Walt Mossberg, the most feared, followed and admired product reviewer of the past few decades will also contribute to The Verge review program. The program will report up through Dieter and Nilay and put The Verge far ahead of all other product review programs.
Reporting structure?
Walt and Kara both report to Lock and will be in charge of editorial for Re/code. Lia Kennett, Re/code's current COO, will report to Marty and run the conference business. The review program reports into Dieter and Nilay as exciting additions to The Verge team.
What does this mean for our Vox Media events team?
Not much day to day. We have a great events team led by Jen Leibow. Her group will continue to do what it does, organizing successful events for Vox Media and our advertisers. This is very different work than running the Re/code conference business which is what Lia will do. Over time, as often happens across many groups at Vox Media, we would not be surprised to see some radical collaboration, sharing of learnings from each other, or at the very least, clinking glasses with new colleagues who share a deep appreciation for how much work goes into making an "in real life" production look effortless.
What about cultural fit?
I've known Walt and Kara for the better part of two decades now. Their values as humans and professionals align with ours, but we'll all have to make an effort to welcome the Re/code team, make them feel at home and also learn from them.
Won't this distract our focus?
Well, if you are reading this, you are already distracted, but I believe if we are committed, we can keep it to a minimum. I am asking Marty Moe to help me coordinate the integration process, working with the People and Culture, Revenue, Finance and any other relevant teams. Part of Marty's role is to make sure that we don't create distractions.  Our big initiatives, like video growth, audience development/data/growth, Unison, Anthem, etc and our 4 priorities that we established at the beginning of the year don't change. There will be no changes to our product roadmap or our strategic initiatives.
When is Re/Code moving to Chorus?
Not for a while. No date set and no expectations. Unison, Anthem and other product work remain the priorities for the team. We also recognize that Curbed is first in line!
How much did this deal cost Vox Media?
Not saying, but have faith that we take the company's financial resources seriously and this is an agreement that works well for both Vox Media and Re/code.
Who would I like to thank?
I'm glad I asked. A lot of people had to work long hours, especially over the holiday weekend to get this done. Lauren Fisher, Brian Leung, Alexis Juneja, Steve Swad, Marty Moe, Trei Brundrett, Josh Albertson, Mike Burke, Fay Sliger and Kevin Powers were all part of the core Vox Media team that helped to get this done. Of course Kara, Walt, Lia and others on the Re/code team have been great partners in the process. You learn a lot about people through a process like this and we all got along tremendously well. Now several others will get involved to ensure a smooth transition.
What now?
Tweet it, high five about it, ask me questions about it ... but then get back to whatever you were doing.
Was this article helpful?
Your email address:
Next Up
Article
Article
Did your favorite TV show get canceled? Here are 7 reasons it might have.
Article
NASA thought Sally Ride needed 100 tampons for 1 week “just to be safe.” From what?
Article
The real problems with Obama’s ISIS strategy, in one paragraph
Sign up for Vox Sentences
By signing up, you agree to our terms.
By signing up, you agree to our terms.
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot password?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Almost done,
By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .
Authenticating
Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.
In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
Yes, share my data

