UPDATE 2-Vox Media acquiring tech news website Re/code
(Adds Vox Media descriptor, paragraph on Comcast's exchange of Re/code stake for Vox Media shares)
LOS ANGELES May 26 (Reuters) - Vox Media, owner of The Verge and other websites, is acquiring Revere Digital, the company that owns technology news website Re/code, according to a post on the Re/code website on Tuesday.
Comcast Corp's NBCUniversal exchanged its minority interest in Re/code for shares in Vox Media, a source familiar with the transaction said.
"We want to assure you that this combination is designed to bolster and enrich Re/code, and that we will continue to publish under the same name and leadership, with editorial independence," Re/code journalists Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher wrote. ( bit.ly/1FVS62i )
Vox Media confirmed the purchase in a press release. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Re/code said it would occasionally collaborate with The Verge, Vox Media's tech news website. While Re/code will focus on the business of technology, The Verge will cover technology from a lifestyle perspective, Re/code said on Tuesday.
Re/code will continue to hold its Code conferences, industry conferences where the journalists interview top technology executives, the statement from the website said. It will eventually migrate to Vox Media's publishing platform, which it said will provide new ways to present news.
When Re/code was launched 18 months ago, Mossberg and Swisher held majority ownership, with Comcast Corp's  NBCUniversal and Windsor Media sharing a minority stake.
(Reporting by Lisa Richwine in Los Angeles and Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bengaluru; Editing by Cynthia Osterman and Anupama Dwivedi)
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


San Francisco (AFP) - The San Francisco company behind technology news website Re/code announced it is being bought by Vox Media.
Re/code's parent company, Revere Digital, said in a release that being acquired by Vox would provide access to resources and an online publishing platform that will help it broaden its reach.
"Our work will now be amplified and enhanced by Vox Media's deep and broad skill set," Re/code founders Kara Swisher and Walt Mossberg said in a post online at recode.net.
"We will also eventually migrate to Vox Media's beautiful, powerful and flexible proprietary publishing platform, which will give us new ways to present our stories to you."
Re/code will also collaborate with Vox technology news website The Verge, which had been a competitor prior to the takeover.
"While the two sites occasionally overlap, we have focused on the business of tech, while The Verge has focused on covering tech from a lifestyle perspective," Swisher and Mossberg said.
Re/code's technology and business conference division will continue to grow, according to Washington, DC-based Vox.
A prestigious Code Conference hosted by Mossberg and Swisher kicked off late Tuesday at an exclusive resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
Mossberg and Swisher launched Re/code at the start of 2014, after the longtime journalists left the Wall Street Journal. 
Financial terms of the take-over were not disclosed, but online reports indicated it was an all-stock deal valued at less than $50 million.
More from AFP:
San Francisco (AFP) - The San Francisco company behind technology news website Re/code announced it is being bought by Vox Media.
Recommended For You
Featured
10 Things Before the Opening Bell
Instant MBA
Breaking News
Digital Media Chart Of The Day
IoT Chart of the Day
Closing Bell
Thanks to our partners
* Copyright © 2015 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .

