Kristen Hwang Cronkite News
WASHINGTON – Coconino and Santa Cruz counties joined dozens of local  governments on a court brief urging immediate implementation of  President Barack Obama’s executive orders on immigration – orders  Arizona is suing to block.
The brief said Obama’s move to expand the Deferred Action for  Childhood Arrivals program would help local economies by providing work  authorization for millions of unauthorized immigrants and by increasing  tax revenue. It would also allow families of unauthorized immigrants to  stay together.
Expansion of DACA and implementation of DAPA – a deferral program for  parents of U.S.-born children – was blocked in February by a federal  judge in Texas. U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen said there was sufficient merit to the argument raised by 26 states suing the federal government over immigration.
Arizona is one of the states in the lawsuit.
“I know the state of Arizona is opposing it,” Santa Cruz County  Supervisor Manuel Ruiz said Tuesday. “But we need to start taking care  of this. We need to have people come out of the darkness and into the  light.”
The Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously to sign  the friend-of-the-court brief in hopes that the U.S. can “move forward  to create responsible immigration policy,” Ruiz said.
A coalition called Cities United for Immigration Action said Monday  that 73 city and county governments had signed on to the brief, ranging  from Los Angeles to Schenectady, New York.
Santa Cruz County borders Mexico, and Ruiz said the board “felt  strongly” that pursuing comprehensive immigration reform is “the right  thing to do.”
Support TucsonSentinel.com today , because a smarter Tucson is a better Tucson.
Coconino County representatives said comprehensive immigration reform is something that the county has supported for years.
“When Congress failed to act on immigration reform, the county  government must still act,” Coconino Supervisor Elizabeth Archuleta  said. “We as county officials are focused on solving issues on the  ground. We feel the impact.”
Coconino County Sheriff William Pribil said immigration reform would  make the community safer because law enforcement officials would have a  better idea of how much crime is being committed and how to stop it.
“For too long, we’ve allowed a shadow community to live within our  own community,” Pribil said. “Because of their undocumented status, they  are reluctant to report crimes as victims and as witnesses. It’s not  good for public safety.”
Officials also said immigration reform would help boost the economy  because immigrants who are now here illegally could participate fully in  society.
“If students and people affected by this are able to get on a path to  legalization, they can get work, they can contribute, they can pay  taxes,” Ruiz said.
Officials in the Arizona Attorney General’s Office did not immediately respond to a request for comment on counties’ action.
According to estimates from the Migration Policy Institute, about 104,000 people in Arizona would be eligible for  deportation deferral under the measures blocked in February. It  estimated that Arizona has the ninth-highest number of immigrants  eligible for DAPA and the eighth-highest number eligible under the DACA  expansion.
“I see it every day,” Archuleta said. “My neighbor across the street  brought her daughter to the U.S. 14 years ago. She’s going through the  school system as a straight-A student, but she can’t take part fully in  the community because of fear of deportation.”
Art Babbott, vice chair of the Coconino Board of Supervisors, said  the makeup of the community means the county must back some kind of  immigration reform.
Support TucsonSentinel.com today , because a smarter Tucson is a better Tucson.
“We have to support some movement because no movement hurts our  families, hurts our economy, hurts our public safety. Gridlock can’t be  supported,” Babbott said.
TucsonSentinel.com's original reporting and curation of border and immigration news is generously supported in part by a grant from the Ethics and Excellence in Journalism Foundation.
- 30 -
Comment on this story
There are no comments yet. Why don't you get the discussion going?
Join the conversation...
Brittany Bade/Cronkite News
Coconino County Supervisor Elizabeth Archuleta, shown in a September photo, said her county decided to join a lawsuit in support of President Barack Obama's immigration reform actions because "county officials are focused on solving issues on the ground" even if national officials will not.
Deferred deportation estimates
Arizona  ranks high for the number of people eligible for an expanded DACA  program and a new DAPA program, according to estimates by the Migration  Policy Institute, which said the top 10 states were:
DAPA:
I want to help TucsonSentinel.com offer a real news alternative!
We're committed to making quality news accessible; we'll never set up a paywall or charge for our site. But we rely on your support to bring you indepedent news without the spin. Use our convenient PayPal/credit card donation form below or contact us at donate@tucsonsentinel.com today.
Donate securely with PayPal
OR: Subscribe and stretch your donation over time
$5/mo. Printer's Devil
$10/mo. Cub Reporter
TucsonSentinel.com is fiscally sponsored by the Investigative News Network. Your contribution is tax-deductible.
Tucson weather
Sponsored by

