Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Jeb Bush touts Florida's pro-gun laws in NRA speech
Jeb Bush showcased the list of pro-gun laws he signed while he was governor of Florida as proof of his Second Amendment credentials to the National
Post to Facebook
Jeb Bush touts Florida's pro-gun laws in NRA speech Jeb Bush showcased the list of pro-gun laws he signed while he was governor of Florida as proof of his Second Amendment credentials to the National Check out this story on Tennessean.com: http://tnne.ws/1yjisrZ
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Mary Troyan, Tennessean Washington Bureau 3:50 p.m. CDT April 10, 2015
Buy Photo
Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush waves to the crowd after he speaks at the NRA-ILA Leadership Forum during the NRA Convention at Music City Center in Nashville, Tenn., Friday, April 10, 2015.
(Photo: Shelley Mays/The Tennessean)Buy Photo
Jeb Bush showcased the list of pro-gun laws he signed while he was governor of Florida as proof of his Second Amendment credentials to the National Rifle Association convention in Nashville.
"I will match my record against anyone else when it comes to support and defense of the Second Amendment," Bush said.
He said Florida has 1.3 million people with concealed carry permits, the highest in the country.
The reception Bush received in the Music City Center was polite, but not rowdy or passionate. Bush referred frequently to his written comments and never ventured from behind the podium. He didn't talk about his personal use of firearms and instead focused on the legal and political battles over gun rights.
"Other states were following our lead," Bush said.
Florida's "Stand your Ground" law became a flashpoint in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin by a Florida citizen who believed he was a threat as he walked down a neighborhood street. Bush instead mentioned the case of a Jacksonville couple who shot an intruder in their home where their grandson was sleeping.
To President Barack Obama's administration, Bush said, "Why don't you focus more on keeping weapons out of the hands of Islamic terrorists and less on keeping them out of the hands of law-abiding Americans?"
Bush has not officially declared his candidacy.
"If I become an active candidate, I will do so with joy in my heart to restore the sense of optimism about the greatest country on the face of the Earth," Bush said.
More Stories

