 
 
Tue, 26 May 2015  8:07 PM ET
Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving has been cleared and will start in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Hawks, the team announced.
However, Irving will be limited in terms of minutes on the court, according to Yahoo! Sports .
Irving has been dealing with knee tendinitis that forced him to miss the previous two games against the Hawks. He will be placed on a 25-minute restriction. This means Matthew Dellavedova should still see plenty of playing time.
May 26, 2015 9:07 PM
May 24, 2015 6:54 PM
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(8:07 pm ET) Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving  has been cleared and will start in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Hawks, the team announced. 
However, Irving will be limited in terms of minutes on the court, according to Yahoo! Sports . 
Irving has been dealing with knee tendinitis that forced him to miss the previous two games against the Hawks. He will be placed on a 25-minute restriction. This means Matthew Dellavedova should still see plenty of playing time. 
NBA confirms Flagrant 1 call for Rockets C Dwight Howard
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(7:28 pm ET) The NBA has confirmed that Rockets center Dwight Howard 's foul on Andrew Bogut in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals was a Flagrant 1.
This means Howard will not be subject to any further discipline and will not be suspended. 
Howard fouled Bogut with what appeared to be an elbow above the shoulders. Howard is averaging 16.2 points and 13.9 rebounds during the playoffs. He's recorded three consecutive double-doubles.
Report: Hawks' Paul Millsap might need shoulder surgery
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(7:19 pm ET) Hawks forward Paul Millsap  may need shoulder surgery during the offseason, according to a report by Bleacher Report .
Millsap is battling a sprained right shoulder. It kept him out of five games during the regular season and has slowed him during the playoffs. 
Millsap averaged 16.7 points and 7.8 rebounds this year. 
Report: Cavs G Kyrie Irving will play in Game 4
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(6:09 pm ET) It appears likely that Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving will suit up and play in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Hawks on Tuesday, according to Yahoo! Sports . 
Irving has missed the past two games due to left knee tendinitis. However, the Cavaliers have been able to overcome the loss of Irving and hold a 3-0 lead over the Hawks. 
Irving has been considered a game-time decision. 
Hawks G Kyle Korver to have surgery on injured ankle
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(6:01 pm ET) Hawks guard Kyle Korver is set for ankle surgery on Wednesday , according to TNT NBA analyst David Aldridge. 
Korver suffered a severe high ankle sprain in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference Finals against the Cavaliers and will not be able to return to the postseason. This season, Korver averaged 12.1 points per game. 
The Hawks trail the Cavaliers 3-0 in the series. 
GM: Cavaliers PF Kevin Love cleared to travel with team
by Marty Gitlin | CBSSports.com
(1:59 pm ET) Cavaliers general manager David Griffin has announced that Cavaliers injured forward Kevin Love has gained permission from medical personnel to travel with the team, per ESPN.
Love, who is out for the remainder of the postseason with a shoulder injury sustained in the first round of the playoffs against Boston, received the clearance after having it re-evaluated. He has shed the sling used to stablize the shoulder.
He rejoined the team Sunday for Game 3 of the Eastern Conference finals in Cleveland.
Rockets not expecting further punishment for Dwight Howard foul
by Brandon Wise | CBSSports.com
Howard fouled Bogut hard in Game 4 above the shoulders and was given a Flagrant 1.
"He just tried to get off a hold," McHale said. "The second foul always gets called. He swiped his arm back, it's not like he turned on him. It's been that way forever in this league. The second one always gets called."
Howard is averaging 16.2 points and 13.9 rebounds per game in the playoffs and has recorded three consecutive double-doubles.
Rockets guard Jason Terry will return next season
by Brandon Wise | CBSSports.com
Terry, who is set to become a free agent this offseason, was asked after the game if he is considering playing again in 2015-16.
"One hundred percent," Terry said before Monday's tipoff.
Terry averaged 7.0 points and 1.9 assists per game in the regular season.
Warriors big man Marreese Speights seeks return for finals
by Marty Gitlin | CBSSports.com
(9:12 am ET) Warriors backup center/forward Marreese Speights , who missed his seventh playoff game with a right calf sprain, plans to be back by the start of the NBA Finals on June 4, assuming his team advances, per the Contra Costa Times.
Speights only averaged 7.6 minutes per game in seven playoff games before going down. He played 17 minutes per game in the regular season.
Warriors F Draymond Green doubles up in loss to Rockets
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(5/25/2015) Warriors forward Draymond Green posted a double-double in Monday night's 128-115 loss to the Rockets in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals. 
Green scored 21 points on 9-of-13 shooting from the field. He also brought down 15 rebounds and recorded four assists. Green made two of his five three-point attempts as well. 
This is Green's 10th double-double of the postseason and second in a row. 
 

