From Wire Reports
 
You have viewed free articles or blogs allowed within a 30-day period.  Receive FREE access by logging in to or creating your Spokesman.com account.
Log In to your Spokesman.com account for unlimited viewing and commenting access.
Don't have a Spokesman.com account? Create a Spokesman.com profile and register for FREE access.
S-R Media, The Spokesman-Review and Spokesman.com are happy to assist you. Contact Customer Service by email or call 800-338-8801
CBS News moved swiftly Sunday after Bob Schieffer’s retirement announcement to name the network’s political director, John Dickerson, as the new moderator of “Face the Nation.”
Dickerson, a former Time magazine and Slate writer who has been with CBS since 2009, will begin his new role early this summer.
Schieffer, who made the announcement on Sunday’s show, noted that Dickerson “sure has the right bloodlines” for the assignment. Dickerson’s mother, Nancy, was the first female correspondent in the CBS News Washington bureau.
Schieffer, the 78-year-old chief Washington correspondent of CBS News, announced Wednesday that he would …
You have viewed 20 free articles or blogs allowed within a 30-day period.  FREE registration is now required for uninterrupted access.
Registration Required
log in to your Spokesman.com account for unlimited viewing and commenting access.
Don't have a Spokesman.com account? Create a Spokesman.com profile and register for FREE access.
S-R Media, The Spokesman-Review and Spokesman.com are happy to assist you. Contact Customer Service by email or call 800-338-8801
Dickerson
CBS News moved swiftly Sunday after Bob Schieffer’s retirement announcement to name the network’s political director, John Dickerson, as the new moderator of “Face the Nation.”
Dickerson, a former Time magazine and Slate writer who has been with CBS since 2009, will begin his new role early this summer.
Schieffer, who made the announcement on Sunday’s show, noted that Dickerson “sure has the right bloodlines” for the assignment. Dickerson’s mother, Nancy, was the first female correspondent in the CBS News Washington bureau.
Schieffer, the 78-year-old chief Washington correspondent of CBS News, announced Wednesday that he would be leaving the job early this summer. Schieffer has been with CBS News since 1969 and “Face the Nation” moderator since 1991.
Metal band Twisted Sister to disband
Twisted Sister has hired drummer Mike Portnoy to replace A.J. Pero, who died last month, and announced the heavy metal group will disband next year.
The band said last week it chose Portnoy, who played with Dream Theater, Adrenaline Mob and the Winery Dogs, to perform at its remaining seven shows this year.
Anthony Jude Pero died of an apparent heart attack while on a tour bus with Adrenaline Mob, a band with whom he performed between engagements with Twisted Sister. Pero joined Twisted Sister in 1982.
The band also plans an undetermined number of concerts in 2016 to mark the end of its performing career on the 40th anniversary of its core lineup of singer Dee Snider, guitarists Jay Jay French and Eddie Ojeda, and bassist Mark “The Animal” Mendoza. Earlier incarnations of the band date to 1973.
Twisted Sister is best known for the 1984 hit singles “We’re Not Gonna Take It” and “I Wanna Rock,” and the MTV videos accompanying each that were heavily played.
Kuwait authorities cancel Akon show
A planned concert by Akon was called off in Kuwait after conservative lawmakers criticized it on moral grounds.
The American singer, whose hits include “Smack That” and “I Wanna Love You,” was scheduled to headline a weekend event also featuring local performers to raise awareness about the dangers of phone use while driving.
One of the organizers, Reema al-Yacoub, told the Associated Press on Sunday that authorities called off the show late last week but did not give a clear explanation.
The birthday bunch
Actor Lyle Waggoner is 80. Actor Paul Sorvino is 76. Actor Tony Dow is 70. Singer Al Green is 69. Actor Ron Perlman is 65. Singer Peabo Bryson is 64. Bandleader/rock musician Max Weinberg is 64. Chess grandmaster Garry Kasparov is 52. Actor Ricky Schroder is 45. Actress Allison Williams is 27.
By phone
Newsroom: (509) 459-5400  •  (800) 789-0029
Customer service: (800) 338-8801

