23mScott Powers
The Blackhawks are facing elimination at home in Game 6, but thanks to a range of past experiences, they're still confident.
19hScott Powers
ESPN Chicago's Scott Powers and NHL.com correspondent Brian Hedger break down the Chicago Blackhawks' 5-4 overtime loss to the Anaheim Ducks in Game 5 of the Western Conference finals.
Play2:59
20hScott Powers
20hScott Burnside
Matt Beleseky's OT winner saved his Ducks from what could have been a crushing loss and moved them one game closer to the Stanley Cup finals.
Play2:28
22h
Matt Beleskey scored 45 seconds into overtime, and the Anaheim Ducks beat the Chicago Blackhawks 5-4 on Monday night in Game 5 to take a 3-2 lead in the Western Conference finals.
21hScott Powers
Matt Beleseky scored 45 seconds into overtime to give the Ducks a Game 5 win and a 3-2 series lead against the Blackhawks.
Jerry Lai/USA TODAY Sports
1dScott Burnside
It comes down to a best-of-three affair to determine the Western Conference champion, and the Ducks and Blackhawks are both feeling confident.
Blackhawks remain confident heading into elimination game
27m
CHICAGO -- There are certain advantages to having played as much playoff hockey as the Chicago Blackhawks have in recent years.
The Blackhawks certainly have a lot of experience to draw on. They have been the team trying to close out an opponent, and they have been the one being closed on. They’ve faced must-win games at home and on the road. The Blackhawks have experienced mostly success, but they’ve endured failure, too. The fact that they have seen it all over the years makes them a confident group, regardless of the situation.
Facing them now is a 3-2 series deficit to the Anaheim Ducks in the Western Conference finals. The Blackhawks have to win Game 6 on Wednesday in Chicago to keep their season alive.
As in the past, the Blackhawks aren’t intimidated by their present circumstances. Blackhawks defenseman Niklas Hjalmarsson went as far as describing the upcoming Game 6 as “fun."
Jonathan Toews rallied the Blackhawks to overtime in Game 5. He'll need to lead them to victory in Game 6. 
Harry How/Getty Images
“It's more fun to play these games than the normal games,” Hjalmarsson said Tuesday after the team returned to Chicago. “When it's all on the line, I think that's what you want to play. You want to play at this time of year. You want to play elimination games -- obviously, come up on the winning side. That's the most fun games to play.”
The Blackhawks have been on both sides of their fair share of elimination games. Last season, they trailed the Los Angeles Kings 3-1 in the Western Conference finals and ended up losing in overtime of Game 7. In 2013, the Blackhawks were down 3-1 to the Detroit Red Wings and won the series. In 2012, they were down 3-1 to the Phoenix Coyotes and lost in six games. In 2011, they trailed the Vancouver Canucks 3-0 and lost in seven games. In 2009, the Blackhawks trailed the Red Wings 3-1 and lost in five games. All together, the Blackhawks are 9-4 when facing elimination.
“It's something we know we've done before,” Blackhawks forward Brandon Saad said Tuesday. “When we're in tight situations like this, we have a veteran group that has been through it, and we know how to win games. We got to take care of tomorrow. It's one game at a time.”
Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville thought past experience could be helpful for his team, but his players also needed to pull from the emotions of Game 5.
“I think we've been behind the eight ball a few times,” Quenneville said. “I think back to being down 3-1 in Detroit [in 2013]. We've been in some tough spots before and put ourselves back. In this series, we've been behind for the third time. Putting ourselves in the spot of trying to have to win one game -- that's our mindset.
“We know that they got a pretty good hockey team there, but we have to play our best game. We can talk about different things going into games, you can visit history, you can look at past games, big games, big moments. There's a lot of history here that we've collected over seven years.  A lot of positive things. I think we all came out of last night's game with an anger and a real sour taste in our mouth. Sometimes, that can be better than a history lesson.”
The Ducks understand the task ahead at the United Center.
“[When] you’ve lost a few games, the next game you come back, and you’re hungry. You know they’re going to be hungry,” Ducks forward Corey Perry said. "It’s a tough building to play in, tough crowd. At the same time, we’re going to be ready. We’re going to use this day to be ready and prepared. Hopefully, tomorrow night we have our best.”
0 Shares

