More
More
Times points
HI,
Breaking News:
AFP | May 27, 2015, 08.40 AM IST
My Saved articles
RELATED
Federer has defeated Granollers in all of their three previous meetings.
Sharapova, the 2012 and 2014 champion, faces Russian Fed Cup teammate Vitalia Diatchenko with the second-round tie opening play on Court Philippe Chatrier.
Diatchenko, the world number 91, is bidding to make the third round for the first time.
Fifth seed Kei Nishikori, the only Japanese man left in the draw of the five who started out, meets Brazil's Thomaz Bellucci, who warmed up for Roland Garros with the claycourt title in Geneva last weekend.
Romanian third seed Simona Halep, the runner-up to Sharapova in 2014, faces 33-year-old Croatian Mirjana Lucic-Baroni, who last made the second round in 2002.
Tomas Berdych, the fourth-seeded Czech, takes on Davis Cup winning teammate Radek Stepanek, who at 36 is the oldest man in the draw.
French Open order of play on showcourts on Wednesday, the fourth day of the 2015 tournament at Roland Garros (x denotes seeded player; 0900GMT start):
Court Philippe Chatrier
Carla Suarez Navarro (ESP x8) v Virginie Razzano (FRA)
Court Suzanne Lenglen
Court One
Follow TOI Sports on Twitter >>> @TOISportsNews
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms?alias=Roland Garros,Roger Federer,Maria Sharapova,French Open,Ana Ivanovic
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.
Get updates on the most important happening of the day
ALSO ON TOI
Search for News
Be the first one to review.
We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message
Connect with us
Login
It seems you are already registered with us. Please enter your account details below:
User Name:
From Sports
Across Times of India
Trending Topics
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Submit button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Out of context/Spam
Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.

