Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
4:58PM Wednesday May 27, 2015
22979(0) online now
contact us
Search smh:
Search in:
Date
Photo: Reuters
Bujumbura:East African leaders will meet on Sunday to discuss the crisis in Burundi as violent clashes between police and anti-government protesters continue and the opposition has boycotted talks to resolve the stand-off.
Rights groups say at least 20 people have been killed by police since protests erupted in late April against President Pierre Nkurunziza's bid for a third term in office. An opposition leader was killed on Saturday.
A boy at a protest on Tuesday against Burundi President Pierre Nkurunziza
Photo: Reuters
Police fired towards protesters and gunfire was heard in several parts of Bujumbura early on Tuesday, a witness said. Many roads in the capital are blocked and businesses closed.
Advertisement
Members of the military attempted a coup on May 13 while Mr Nkurunziza was abroad at the last East African Community (EAC) summit aimed at ending the row over his plan to stand again. The putsch failed but protests have rumbled on.
The EAC said on Twitter late on Monday that another leaders' summit would be held in Dar es Salaam on Sunday, with ministers meeting on Saturday. Mr Nkurunziza's office said it was unclear if the president would attend.
A protester shouts on Tuesday, in Bujumbura, during a protest against Burundi President Pierre Nkurunziza and his bid for a third term.
Photo: Reuters
"It's too soon to know, but Burundi will be represented, that is for sure," said presidential spokesman Gervais Abayeho.
Mr Nkurunziza's decision to try for a third term unleashed Burundi's worst political crisis since a civil war ended in 2005. Many people fear the violence could lead to renewed ethnic bloodletting between the Hutu and Tutsi communities.
Critics say Mr Nkurunziza's bid violates the constitution. The president's supporters disagree, and say a constitutional court ruling allows him to run.
Some 800,000 mainly Tutsis and Hutus were killed in a 1994 genocide in neighbouring Rwanda. The current unrest has prompted around 70,000 Burundians to flee abroad, according to the UN refugee agency UNHCR.
The presidency on Tuesday said Mr Nkurunziza had signed a decree on May 21 for the elections to be financed by increasing the country's deficit and trimming the budgets of the education, health and seven other ministries.
About 44 billion francs ($36 million) need to be found to fund the elections, the document states. Domestic debt will be increased by 28 billion francs, while 14 billion francs will be raised from ministry savings. Another one billion should be saved from what the document calls "other products".
The government also put out a statement on Tuesday asking "patriotic citizens" to contribute money to a special account at the central bank to finance the election.
Three gored in Peruvian bull run
RAW VISION: Three people have been hospitalized in the Peruvian town of Huancavelica after being gored during the annual Fiesta de las Cruces bull run.
PT0M58S 300 169 Tue May 26 21:21:18 UTC 2015
Top 5 World articles

