By Brian Witte | AP April 10 at 11:56 AM
ANNAPOLIS, Md. — Republicans in Maryland’s House of Delegates are criticizing Democrats who control the chamber for not bringing two of Gov. Larry Hogan’s supplemental budgets before lawmakers to consider.
Democrats argued Friday that the Republican governor’s latest revised budget proposals undermine bipartisan votes that the House and Senate already have taken on the state’s $40 billion budget.
Hogan and the Democratic-led Legislature are debating state spending, as Maryland’s legislative session is scheduled to end Monday at midnight.
Democrats have restored about $203 million in education, state employee pay and Medicaid spending that Hogan did not include in his initial budget proposal in January. Hogan would still need to approve the money. However, the governor has criticized the Legislature for not doing enough to advance his tax-relief proposals.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

