Headlines
Willmar Minnesota 2208 Trott Ave. SW / P.O. Box 839 56201
WILLMAR — After nearly two weeks without any new cases of avian influenza, six new cases of bird flu were reported Tuesday in Minnesota commercial turkey flocks.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Three of the new farms are in Kandiyohi County and two are in Renville County.
Brown County registered its first case of bird flu with 46,800 turkeys affected.
The number of turkeys affected in the latest cases in Kandiyohi and Renville counties was not reported yet.
According to the Board of Animal Health, there are now 94 Minnesota farms in 22 counties where the highly pathogenic H5N2 avian influenza has been detected with well over 8 million birds either killed by the virus or euthanized to prevent the spread of the deadly disease.
The most cases of bird flu can be found in Kandiyohi County, which is the top turkey-producing county in the state.
With the latest report, there are now 36 farms in Kandiyohi County affected by avian influenza.
Stearns County is next with 14 cases, followed by Meeker County with nine cases. Swift County has seven cases and Renville County has four.
However, Renville County has the largest single case of bird flu with 2 million egg-laying chickens affected earlier this month.
Specialists with the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Board of Animal Health continue to base the state’s response operations from the Emergency Operations Center located at the Kandiyohi County Law Enforcement Center in Willmar.
Meanwhile, State Rep. Tim Miller is holding a series of meetings this week with poultry growers and Steve Olson, who is the executive director of the Minnesota Turkey Growers Association, about the state response to the avian influenza.
The meeting today is at 10 a.m. in Room 116 at the Renville County Government Services building in Olivia.
On Thursday the meeting is at 10 a.m. at the Montevideo City Hall chambers.
Representatives from the Minnesota Department of Agriculture and Board of Animal Health have also been invited to attend these events.
Advertisement
West Central Tribune (320) 235-6769 customer support http://www.wctrib.com
A reporter for more than 30 years, Carolyn Lange covers county government and regional news with the West Central Tribune.
http://www.wctrib.com
Advertisement
Advertisement
Trending
Top Ads
Willmar, Minnesota 56201
Call us at

