Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Cortez Masto will run for Reid's seat in U.S. Senate
Former attorney general will be the first Latina elected to the U.S. Senate if she wins
Post to Facebook
Cortez Masto will run for Reid's seat in U.S. Senate Former attorney general will be the first Latina elected to the U.S. Senate if she wins Check out this story on rgj.com: http://on.rgj.com/1yewXxa
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Ray Hagar , RGJ 6 p.m. PDT April 8, 2015
Former Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto said Wednesday she will run for the U.S. Senate seat vacated by the retirement of Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid.
(Photo: RGJ file)
Former Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto said Wednesday that she will run for the U.S. Senate seat that is being vacated with the retirement of Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.
Cortez Masto, who served eight years as Nevada's attorney general before being term limited in 2014, has already received the support of Reid and the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
Reid sent out a fundraising email on behalf of Cortez Masto soon after her announcement.
In the email, Reid noted that Cortez Masto would be the first Latina elected to the U.S. Senate if she wins the general election of 2016.
"Catherine's election to this seat would be historic," Reid said.
Wednesday, Reid also said he was officially endorsing Cortez Masto.
"When I decided to retire, I said I hoped that Catherine Cortez Masto would run," Reid said. "Nevadans immediately took to social media and agreed. Today we got out wish. Catherine just announced her candidacy and I am proud to endorse her."
Nevada's 1st U.S. House District Rep. Dina Titus, D-Las Vegas, said earlier that she may consider a run for Reid's seat. Titus's political director Scot Rutledge re-released Titus' statement on the possibility of running that was first released when Reid announced his retirement last month.
"This is a decision I will make carefully after talking with family and close friends to ensure it is in the best interest of District One and the people of Nevada," Titus said then.
Cortez Masto said she is not concerned about potential opponents.
"From my perspective, I don't care who gets into the race," Cortez Masto said. "I'm going to work hard and do what I think is necessary to get out and talk to individuals, talk about the issues, talk about why I am the better candidate and what I have done in the past to protect Nevada's seniors, children and women and consumers. Those are issues I have worked on all of my life and that is going to be my focus."
Yet Cortez Masto has already seemingly jumped ahead of Titus with the endorsement from the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
"Catherine Cortez Masto has made protecting Nevada families and consumers her life's work, and she is the strongest candidate to keep this Senate seat in Democratic hands and continue Harry Reid's legacy of fighting for Nevada's best interests," said John Tester, the chair of the DSCC. "As state attorney general, Cortez Masto built a record of working to combat drug dealing, standing up for homeowners and consumers, and protecting seniors, children and women from abuse."
On the Republican side, potential candidates are waiting to see if popular Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval will announce a bid for the seat.
"That's the 600-pound gorilla in the room," said Eric Herzik, a political science professor at the University of Nevada, Reno.
Having the endorsement of Reid, however, cuts both ways, said another leading Nevada political scientist.
"When you have someone like Harry Reid who has been in Nevada politics as long as he has, he has certainly made some enemies, even within his own party," said Fred Lokken, a political science professor at Truckee Meadows Community College. "There are some in the Democratic Party who think he is part of the problem with the state Democratic Party, controlling it too much, that sort of thing."
Yet Reid's support "overall is a net positive," Lokken said.
"Harry Reid has been responsible for the Democratic Party structure in Nevada for years," Lokken said. "It means access to whatever machine he is able to build, whatever effort, like voter registration, that needs to be coordinated by the Democrats. He has access to money, both inside the state of Nevada and outside the state of Nevada."
The potential for Cortez Masto to become the first Latina in the U.S. Senate could help Democrats and their presidential candidate break open the potential of a large Hispanic turnout in Nevada for the 2016 election, Lokken said.
"In Nevada, the challenge for the Democrats is how do you active the Latino vote?" Lokken said. "It has become such a huge base for the Democratic Party going forward."
Cortez Masto said she has received a lot of support since she made her announcement early Wednesday.
"A number of people have reached out to me," she said. "But at the end of the day, it has been about my decision and what was right for my family and what is right for the state of Nevada."
Cortez Masto would not say how much money she would need to raise for a successful U.S. Senate run, saying only, "I am committed to raising the funds necessary to get my message out to the voters and show them that I am ready to serve their interests and the interests of the state of Nevada."
Cortez Masto, 51, said she left her new job as the executive vice chancellor of the Nevada System of Higher Education on Tuesday. University Chancellor Dan Klaich said he was sad to lose "my right arm," in reference to Cortez Masto.
Klaich, however, said the chance for Cortez Masto to run for the U.S. Senate "is an opportunity of a lifetime."
Cortez Masto's signature accomplishments as attorney general included starting a Mortgage Fraud Strike Force to investigate foreclosure-related fraud and securing nearly $2 billion for state's homeowners as part of the National Mortgage Settlement. She was also active in fighting human trafficking and ushered a bill through the Legislature in 2013 to combat the crime.
But the National Republican Senatorial Committee said they still consider the seat to be ripe for a Republican takeover. Clark County Republican Party Political Director Nick Phillips said Cortez Masto's tenure as attorney general was characterized by "extreme partisanship," citing charges her office filed against then-Republican Lt. Gov. Brian Krolicki in 2008, as he was eyeing a Senate bid. The case was later dismissed.
"We're going to have a large primary on both sides," Phillips predicted. "We're certainly looking to see who comes out of that."
Soon after making her announcement, Cortez Masto focus on her social-media campaign, opening a campaign website, Facebook page and Twitter account.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
More Stories

