May 25, 2015
May 24, 2015
Hot Topic is buying ThinkGeek
Did you know ThinkGeek used to be a Linux desktop manufacturer? Me neither
A deal with a very weird backstory
There's likely a huge crossover between those shopping at Hot Topic and those buying nerdy goods from ThinkGeek, so the purchase makes a lot of sense — but there's also some weird history to it, as well. As  noted earlier today by Bloomberg , Geeknet was previously known as SourceForge, which was previously known as VA Linux Systems. Far from a household name, the company nonetheless had a huge IPO in 1999, before the first big tech bubble burst. VA Linux Systems launched in 1993 and made its business selling PCs with Linux pre-installed, something that seemed like a potential success back at the time. After setting a share price of $30 prior to the IPO, first-day share prices closed at a whopping $239.25 — a 698 percent gain on that opening price.
That marked the strongest opening-day performance in Nasdaq history, but it didn't last. Within 12 months, VA Linux Systems' shares were trading in the single digits. The company exited the hardware business within 18 months and laid off most of its employees — but after a few pivots, it turned its first profit in 2006 after a move into the ecommerce business.
But the road has finally ended for VA Linux Systems / SourceForge / Geeknet — it is now a part of Hot Topic, an undeniably odd path for a company to take. Still, there's some nice symmetry here — Linux desktops are as much an oddity of the '90s now as much of what Hot Topic made its name selling way back when it got started.
The
Latest
Headlines
Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot password?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Almost done,
By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .
Authenticating
Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.
In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
Yes, share my data

