By Andrew Demillo | AP April 6 at 8:56 PM
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. — Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson says he believes the state’s image benefited from the compromise religious objections law that was enacted after an earlier version drew widespread complaints that it was anti-gay.
Hutchinson on Monday said he believes the state showed it valued religious freedom and a diverse workplace with the revised measure he signed into law last week. The measure bars local and state government from infringing on someone’s religious beliefs without a compelling reason.
Hutchinson made the comments on the Arkansas Educational Television Network.
Hutchinson asked lawmakers to rework the measure that was billed as protecting religious freedom amid criticism that the earlier version would have allowed businesses to deny services based on sexual orientation. Arkansas’ amended law only addresses actions by the government.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

