Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Environmental groups to hit Rob Portman with TV ads for his global warming proposal (video)
Rob Portman has a ghostwriter
U.S. Sen. Rob Portman says a program of energy efficiency measures and incentives to fight global deforestation would be as effective -- and loss costly for Ohioans -- as pending Obama administration regulations to cut greenhouse gas emissions. (Al Behrman/The Associated Press)
Portman is the target again.
The freshman senator, a Republican, will be criticized on stations in Cincinnati, Columbus, Cleveland and Akron, Dayton and Toledo for trying to let states duck pending rules to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Scientists link the emissions, particularly carbon dioxide from coal-burning power plants, to global warming, and doctors link them to asthma and other respiratory diseases. 
Portman's proposal, which he offered in the form of a Senate budget amendment in late March, never got a vote. But the Natural Resources Defense Council, or NRDC, says the public needs to be made aware of the kinds of policies the senator promotes.
The NRDC says it will spend in the mid-six figures on the ads, which will show children using nebulizers, or machines that create a mist so medication for asthma can be delivered to the lungs. The link to nebulizers and climate change is carbon emissions, which pending EPA regulations aim to cut by 30 percent by 2030, using 2005 emissions as a baseline.
Carbon emissions lead to higher concentrations of ground-level ozone -- you know it as smog -- which aggravates asthma and other respiratory ailments. The commercial will present viewers with a test, as a narrator explains:
"Try to hold your breath this entire message.
"Ready, go.
"Senator Portman led the charge in Congress last month to allow power plants to keep polluting our air.
"Pollution which is not only one of the major causes of catastrophic climate change, but also leads to childhood asthma attacks.
"And, if you want to know what that feels like...
"Now you do.
"Because while you can start breathing normally again, they can't.
"Senator Portman's supposed to protect the people, not the polluters."
The commercial makes no reference to political party or Portman's opponents in the 2016 election. Two Democrats, former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland and Cincinnati City Council member P.G. Sittenfeld, are vying for the Democratic nod, although Strickland is miles ahead of Sittenfeld, according to a Quinnipiac University poll released Monday.
That poll shows why the timing of this ad matters. 
Strickland would win by nine points  if the election were held today, according to the poll. A reason for that is that voters lack a clear impression of Portman -- what he does and what he stands for. The NRDC ad aims to add clarity, though not in a way way Portman desires.
Portman, of course, characterizes his approach to carbon emissions quite differently. We'll deal with that momentarily, but first, here is why his campaign manager believes the NRDC has chosen to go after Portman:
Ted Strickland. 
Specifically, says Portman's campaign manager, Corry Bliss, Strickland until recently worked for the political arm of a liberal think tank, the Center for American Progress, and the think tank was aligned with the NRDC in its environmental advocacy.
"Ted Strickland ran the lobbying arm of a Washington special interest group and it's not surprising that his special interest allies want to help distract from his awful record as governor when over 350,000 Ohio jobs disappeared," Biss said, using a line of attack that Republicans hope will reinforce their impression of the former governor -- a guy presiding during a period of job losses.
"The truth," said Bliss, "is that Rob Portman has worked across the aisle fighting for a balanced approach to preserve jobs for Ohio workers while protecting the environment through measures like his law to clean Great Lakes drinking water, his law that conserved tropical rainforests and his bipartisan energy efficiency bill which this group has actually praised."
On the issue at the heart of the NRDC's ad, Portman says that the pending federal regulations, promulgated by the EPA under President Barack Obama and expected to be finalized in June, could unfairly penalize Ohioans. 
That's because Ohio gets a majority of its electricity from coal-burning power plants, and coal emissions are a major way that carbon gets released into the atmosphere. To comply with the federal regulations, Ohio power plants and heavy industry would have to shift from coal to cleaner energy sources such as natural gas and alternative fuels.
And that could lead to price hikes, according to Portman, a number of utilities, manufacturing groups and the coal industry.
Portman says the Obama administration should focus more on energy efficiency. He proposes an energy efficiency program combined with incentives to halt global deforestation, which he says could address climate change without hurting families and businesses financially.
The EPA disagrees, as does Public Citizen, another environmental group that criticized Portman recently. Public Citizen says that while electricity prices could rise somewhat as power plants switch from coal, the EPA regulations will also incorporate energy efficiency that, on balance, will drive overall household costs down .
But here's the rub: Portman's amendment would have allowed the governor or legislature in any state to opt out of the regulations if they determined that retail electricity prices alone -- not overall homeowner costs-- would go up under the EPA regulations.
"It's dismaying that Senator Portman has been fighting to keep our air dirty," said Laura Burns , a Mansfield mother, blogger and former biologist involved in the Moms Clean Air Force. "My children and those across our state deserve to breathe cleaner air, and their future completely depends on it. We're ashamed our senator has refused to prioritize their health, and we call on him to start doing so now."
The EPA regulations, known as the Clean Power Plan, would save 2,800 lives in Ohio and prevent 760 hospitalizations statewide from 2020 to 2030, says the NRDC, citing a 2014 analysis by the Harvard School of Public Health. Nearly 2 million Ohioans suffer from asthma and other chronic respiratory diseases, including 270,000 asthmatic children in 2013, according to the American Lung Association.
Portman won a partial victory  on energy efficiency in late March, getting a bill passed to establish "a voluntary, market-driven approach to aligning the interests of commercial building owners and their tenants to reduce energy consumption." It exempts certain electric resistance water heaters from pending Department of Energy regulation, and requires federal agencies to coordinate strategies on energy-efficient information technologies.
The NRDC praised that legislation, something that Bliss noted today when the NRDC launched its fresh attack ad. The NRDC's political arm even tweeted congratulations  to Portman and his bill's co-sponsor, Sen. Jean Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, on their bill's passage.
Their bill's passage marked the final action in late March after a long series of legislative moves with political overtones, many of them strictly symbolic -- but nevertheless putting senators on record as recognizing or failing to recognize the man-made effects of global climate change.
Portman voted in the affirmative column, but with limits.
He voted "no" on one amendment that said human action contributed "significantly" to climate change. He agreed that human action is a problem. But he disagreed on the extent.
Conservative enough? Jeb Bush's Right Angle
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy
cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

