Select Portfolio and Asset Combination for Display on Market Band
Select Portfolio
ET NOW RADIO
FREE ET MARKETS APP
BREAKING NEWS
Federal Reserve policy: Here is what the bond traders have in store for 2016
By Bloomberg | 27 May, 2015, 04.17AM IST
By Daniel Kruger
Forget 2015. The real play for bond traders is 2016. For years, the $12.6 trillion US Treasury market has signalled — correctly — that the Federal Reserve was too optimistic in its outlook for the economy and interest rates.
That's no different now even though policy makers have moved closer to how traders view the world, which is to say it won't be surprising if the central bank failed to lift borrowing costs this year. Despite the backup in yields in recent weeks, bond prices still signal the unexpected slowdown in the economy was more than just the result of some bad weather that kept Americans indoors and idled factories in the first quarter.
Regardless of when the first increase comes, futures show traders don't see rates exceeding 1% by the end of 2016, versus the Fed's estimate of 1.875%. Fed officials are "still optimistic and hopeful their policies are going to work the way they are intending," Brandon Swensen, the cohead of US fixed income at RBC Global Asset Management, which oversees $35 billion, said.
"What we have seen and what the market is pricing in is that it will be more of the same." RBC predicts rates will only rise to 1% by the end of 2016, from near zero now, and as a result holds a greater proportion of short-term Treasuries relative to its benchmark.
Since 2012, when the Fed started making its forecasts public, policy makers have consistently overestimated the strength of the economy. They've cut their projections in nine of the past 10 meetings and chopped their year-end rate forecasts by at least a half-percentage point from 2015 through 2017. As recently as September, the Fed's median rate estimate for 2016 approached 3%.
It's now less than 2%, still a percentage point higher than what the market anticipates. And traders are divided over whether the central bank can start raising rates at all this year. "The Fed has opinions; the market has positions," said Jack McIntyre, who helps oversee $45 billion at Brandywine Global Investment Management in Philadelphia. "If the data doesn't show marked improvement soon, they're going to get pushed back into 2016."
Fed chair Janet Yellen said Friday she still expects to raise rates this year if the economy meets her forecasts, with a gradual pace of tightening to follow.
NO DELAY
She added that delaying the first increase until employment and inflation return to the Fed's objectives "would risk overheating the economy." The problem is that a raft of disappointing data in the past month, from retail sales to consumer confidence and manufacturing, suggests there may be something more than just the weather that's holding back growth.
"The Fed doesn't have any sort of magic potion to fix everything that ails the economy," said Aaron Kohli, New York-based interestrate strategist at BNP Paribas, one of 22 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
"The Fed can't command people to spend money." A number of Fed officials are starting to question whether the central bank needs to re-think its approach to monetary policy. In the minutes of the Fed's meeting on April 28, some said the "equilibrium rate," or economist speak for where interest rates need to be to achieve full employment and stable inflation, is "unusually low by historical standards."
As a result, they asked whether the Fed was providing "sufficient accommodation" to the economy, even after holding its rate close to zero for more than six years and pumping trillion of dollars into the economy with quantitative easing. "It justifies a low Fed funds rate," said Margaret Kerins, the Chicago based head of fixed-income strategy at Bank of Montreal, another primary dealer.
Stay on top of business news with The Economic Times App. Download it Now!
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter Follow
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Browse Companies
Browse Mutual Funds
BACK TO TOP
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Others

