Sarah Brady, the widow of former White House press secretary James Brady, died of pneumonia on Friday at age 73, NPR reports .
Brady became one of the country's most influential gun control activists after her husband was shot in the head during the 1981 assassination attempt of President Ronald Reagan. James Brady survived, but used a wheelchair until his death in August 2014.
"Just over 34 years ago, (Sarah Brady and I) shared an experience that bonded us for life, as we comforted each other in a tiny, windowless office at the George Washington University Hospital Emergency Room, while awaiting word about whether our husbands would survive the horrific gunshots that had brought them there," former first lady Nancy Reagan said in a statement on Saturday. "Sarah and Jim's path from that day on was, of course, much more difficult than Ronnie's and mine, but Sarah never complained. I found her to be a woman of immense courage, strength, and optimism."
Legislation Sarah Brady pushed following her husband's shooting has prevented the sale of more than 2.4 million firearms, "to criminals and other dangerous people," according to her organization, The Brady Campaign.
Blue Bell Ice Cream voluntarily suspended operations at a company plant in Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, on Friday, following the deaths of three people that officials linked back to a foodborne illness in some of the plant's products, NBC News reports .
Health officials found that of five patients who became sick with listeriosis between December 2013 and January 2015 at a hospital in Wichita, Kansas, at least four had drank milkshakes made with Blue Bell ice cream. A subsequent test of an ice cream product meant for "institutional accounts" — such as hospitals — found it was contaminated with the bacteria Listeria monocytogenes.
Blue Bell promises it is conducting a "careful and complete" examination of its products; the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that consumers throw away any Blue Bell products that have been made at the company's Broken Arrow plant.
The New York Times' tick-tock of the Iranian nuclear negotiations in Lausanne, Switzerland, is recommended reading for many reasons, showing how Iranian and American negotiators overcame decades of mistrust to hammer out the outline of a deal that has the potential to resolve one of the knottiest problems in international relations. But the most striking detail involves a plain old whiteboard, which enabled the two sides to write things down without leaving a record. As David E. Sanger and Michael R. Gordon write:
Wherever Wendy Sherman, the lead American negotiator, traveled in the ornate hotel here, she was trailed by a whiteboard, where the Iranians and the Americans marked down their understandings, sometimes in both English and Persian.
The board served a major diplomatic purpose, letting both sides consider proposals without putting anything on paper. That allowed the Iranians to talk without sending a document back to Tehran for review, where hard-liners could chip away at it, according to several American officials interviewed for this article, who all spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.
"It was a brilliantly low-tech solution," one White House official said. [ The New York Times ]
—Ryu Spaeth
Nearly two years after the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings, a government report on Friday critiqued the city's immediate response to the attack and subsequent manhunt of the suspects.
While the report praised Boston's overall response as a "great success," it was less complimentary of the law enforcement officials who tracked alleged bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to a boat several days later, Time notes .
"Weapons discipline was lacking," the report said, when police officers opened fire on the boat after hearing a gunshot, which they attributed to Tsarnaev but which actually came from a fellow police officer. And, a lack of coordination between city agencies "created confusion at times," in the hours and then days after the attack, the report added.
Check out The Washington Post  for a breakdown of the report's other sections.
After ostensibly abandoning a plan last spring to develop a national license plate tracking system, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has quietly resumed a modified version of the project.
DHS is now contacting companies that already track license plates for local, state, and federal law enforcement departments. Though the agency insists it has no intention of building a national tracking database, its plan is to gain access to all the smaller databases and thus have — basically — a national database.
As with last year's proposal, civil libertarians have begun to sound the alarm. Gregory T. Nojeim of the Center for Democracy & Technology explains that, "If this goes forward, DHS will have warrantless access to location information going back at least five years about virtually every adult driver in the U.S., and sometimes to their image as well."
In an interview with The New York Times Magazine, Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) addressed his open letter to Iran, but also the truly serious stuff, like why he runs nearly every morning.
"I do it so I can indulge in the guilty pleasure of eating birthday cake," Cotton told the magazine. "(I eat cake) most days, with ice cream. Early on, when my wife and I were dating, we went to the grocery store, and I told her that sometimes I just buy birthday cakes, and I eat them. And she said: 'Really? I do, too.' She went to the grocery store yesterday and picked up a white birthday cake."
Why Cotton is not leading every single interview with such a relatable gem, I do not know. But as a fellow fan of store-bought, sugary confections, he has my support on this point.

