Apr 3, 2015, 5:46 PM ET
ABC News
Sarah Brady speaks during a news conference June 27, 1997, in Washington.
Ron Edmonds/AP Photo
Sarah Brady, the widow of former White House Press Secretary James Brady, has died, The Brady Campaign and Center to Prevent Gun Violence announced. She was 73.
The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence said in a Facebook post: "We are heartbroken over the loss of Sarah Brady, our dear friend and Chairperson of the Brady Campaign and Center to Prevent Gun Violence. Sarah was a champion for gun violence prevention and her commitment and fiery compassion will live on."
The organization did not specify a cause of death.
We are heartbroken over the loss of Sarah Brady, our dear friend and Chairperson of the Brady Campaign and Center to...
Posted by Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence on Friday, April 3, 2015
Jim Brady was seriously injured by the assassination attempt on then-President Ronald Reagan and confined to a wheelchair after the incident. He and his wife, Sarah, went on to become dedicated advocates for gun control, and he became the namesake for the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. Jim Brady died in August 2014.
"All of us at the Brady Campaign and Center to Prevent Gun Violence are heartbroken over the passing of Sarah Brady. Together with her husband Jim 'Bear’ Brady, Sarah was the heart and soul of this organization and the successful movement it has become today. In the history of our nation, there are few people, if any, who are directly responsible for saving as many lives as Sarah and Jim," said Brady Campaign and Center President Dan Gross in a statement.
"There are countless people walking around today who would not be were it not for Sarah Brady’s remarkable resilience, compassion and – what she always said she enjoyed the most -- her hard work in the trenches with this organization, which she continued right up to the very end."
Brady is survived by her and Jim’s son, James “Scott” Brady, Jr., and her stepdaughter, Melissa “Missy” Brady Camins.
Join the Discussion
5

