Published May 27, 2015
May 19, 2015: FIFA President  Sepp Blatter attends a press conference in Jerusalem.  (AP Photo/Tsafrir Abayov)
Six soccer officials were arrested by Swiss authorities early Wednesday and face extradition to the U.S. after federal prosecutors charged them with accepting bribes and kickbacks as far back as the early 1990s.
Switzerland's Federal Office of Justice (FOJ) confirmed the arrests to the Associated Press, but did not specify that all were members of the International Federation of Association Football, known as FIFA. The New York Times reported that 14 people have been indicted on charges that include racketeering, wire fraud, and money laundering conspiracy.
The arrests were carried out at a five-star hotel in Zurich ahead of FIFA's annual meeting, which was to feature an election Friday that was widely expected to return 79-year-old Sepp Blatter for a fifth term as the organization's president.
Blatter was not among the men arrested, FIFA spokesman Walter de Gregorio told The Associated Press. Blatter is scheduled to attend a meeting of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) at 10:30 a.m. (4:30 a.m. ET) in a different downtown Zurich hotel.
"He is not involved at all," De Gregorio said.
The New York Times reported that the indictment names nine current or former soccer officials, four sports marketing executives, and an intermediary who allegedly facilitated illegal payments. The Times reported that at least two people were seen being led out of the hotel in Zurich without handcuffs and were allowed to bring their luggage.
Among the people arrested was Costa Rica soccer federation president Eduardo Li, according to the Times. Li was elected to the FIFA executive committee in March and was to have formally join the Blatter-chaired panel on Friday.
Another official reported to have been arrested was Jeffrey Webb of the Cayman Islands, the president of CONCACAF, one of FIFA's six regional confederations. CONCACAF oversees all aspects of international soccer in North America, the Caribbean, and Central America. Webb was a member of FIFA's executive committee and seen by some as a possible successor to Blatter.
The Wall Street Journal reported that federal prosecutors in New York were expected to unseal the indictment Wednesday morning. Top law enforcement officials, including Attorney General Loretta Lynch, were to appear at a news conference to announce the charges.
The Times reported that the indictment deals with corruption related to marketing and broadcast deals, as well as in bidding for the right to host the quadrennial World Cup, the biggest sporting event on Earth.
The FOJ said in a statement that U.S. authorities suspect the six officials of having received or paid bribes totaling millions of dollars and that the crimes were agreed to and prepared in the U.S., and payments carried out via U.S. banks.
"The bribery suspects -- representatives of sports media and sports promotion firms -- are alleged to have been involved in schemes to make payments to the soccer functionaries (FIFA delegates) and other functionaries of FIFA sub-organizations - totaling more than USD 100 million," the FOJ statement said. "In return, it is believed that they received media, marketing, and sponsorship rights in connection with soccer tournaments in Latin America."
A statement in German added that the probe involved tournaments in the United States. It was not clear if the probe was linked to the 1994 World Cup, which was hosted by the United States.
"We’re struck by just how long this went on for and how it touched nearly every part of what FIFA did," The Times quoted a U.S. law enforcement official as saying. "It just seemed to permeate every element of the federation and was just their way of doing business. It seems like this corruption was institutionalized."
CONCACAF reported itself to U.S. tax authorities in 2012. Then based in New York, the organization had not paid taxes over several years when Jack Warner, of Trinidad and Tobago, was its president and Chuck Blazer of the U.S. was its secretary general.
Warner left FIFA and CONCACAF in 2011 to avoid sanctions in a bribery case. He reportedly is named in the indictment. Blazer left in 2013 and is cooperating with the FBI's investigation, according to the Journal.
FIFA has been dogged by accusations of corruption in recent years, most of it related to the bidding to host the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. Host rights for those tournaments were awarded in December 2010 to Russia and Qatar, countries which have been heavily criticized for their human rights record. Qatar's use of migrant labor to build the stadiums and other infrastructure to host the tournament has come under particular attack from advocacy groups.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

