This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Learn More.
Business Anti Gay Law: Apple Should Pull Out Of Nigeria – Leading Conservatives
Nigeria - Leading conservatives have urged Apple to live up to its publicly stated principles by pulling out of countries that murder their citizens for being gay.
Recently, Apple CEO Tim Cook had said the company is “open to everyone, regardless of where they come from, what they look like, how they worship or who they love. Regardless of what the law might allow in Indiana or Arkansas, we will never tolerate discrimination.
John Hawkins of The Right Wing, in a letter writes “Tim Cook’s message seems rather ironic in light of the fact that Apple willingly does business with some of the most virulently anti-gay nations on the planet.”
“According to their Islamic-based governments, homosexuality is punishable by death in Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Iran.  So not only is it willing to “tolerate discrimination” in those countries, Apple is also happy to sell an iPod to the people who are murdering gays so they can listen to some cheery music when they’re done. What these nations are doing to their gay communities is despicable and should be condemned by every decent person. We hope Tim Cook believes that as well.
Tim Cook says that, “Opposing discrimination takes courage,” and we agree.  We call on Mr. Cook to live up to our shared principles by pulling Apple out of Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Iran until they stop their official government policies of jailing and murdering gays and lesbians.
Full list of signatories to the letter is listed below:
Bruce Carroll,Gay Patriot
Ali A. Akbar,Black Conservatives Fund
Morgan Brittany,Politichicks
Ben Chapman,Chapman GOPSteven Crowder, Comedian,FOX News
Brandon Darby,BreitbartEd Dean, radio host
Jeff Dunetz,Yid with Lid
Jack Furnari,Bizpac Review
John Hinderaker,PowerLine
Ben Howe, founder ofMister Smith MediaTony Katz, talk radio host
Dana Loesch,Radio HostandThe Blaze TVDr. Gina Loudon,Politichicks
Paul Mirengoff, PowerLine
Terresa Monroe-Hamilton,Noisy Room
Joshua Riddle,Young Conservatives
Ben Shapiro,Truth RevoltKurt Schlichter, columnist.
Do you already have an account?
No, create an account now.
Yes, my password is:
Discussions:
59,012
Messages:
69,289
Newer Than:

