Latest News
First Lady Michelle Obama gets people moving at the annual White House Easter Egg Roll.
Call her the First Lady of Dance.
If Jackie Kennedy was known for her iconic Camelot style, Betty Ford for raising awareness about addiction, and Laura Bush for promoting libraries and literacy, Michelle Obama may be remembered as the coolest First Lady who could bust a move.
Now, Michelle Obama has once again proved her boogie bonafides by upstaging both the president and the Easter bunny at Monday's White House Easter Egg Roll.
Sure, there was the namesake egg roll on the South Lawn; the President's annual reading from Maurice Sendak's "Where the Wild Things Are," which was rather dramatically interrupted by swarming bees ; even a competitive round of tennis between Mr. Obama and tennis star Caroline Wozniacki.
But it was Mrs. Obama who stole the day with an energetic on-stage romp to " Uptown Funk " with the cast from "So You Think You Can Dance" all-stars.
In honor of the fifth anniversary of the First Lady's "Let's Move!" initiative, the theme of this year's Easter event was #GimmeFive, in which Mrs. Obama asked people to share on social media five ways they are leading healthier lives.
Presumably, her impressive dance routine was one of her #GimmeFive.
"We're going to turn this backyard into a huge Gimme Five flash mob," Mrs. Obama said, before leading an all-star dance party to Mark Ronson's "Uptown Funk."
Mom-dancing, it was not.
She hip-thrusted, fist-pumped, and kept the beat impressively, smiling all the while.
To paraphrase the Vox's Ezra Klein , "Unless you are Sasha or Malia, you will fully enjoy Michelle Obama" hip-thrusting to "Uptown Funk." 
If there is a takeaway from Mrs. Obama's Easter dance, it is further proof that the White House knows how to leverage social media – and the First Lady's dance skills – in the name of promoting better habits.
And that Mrs. Obama is one fit 51-year-old.
“I’m just trying not to breathe hard,” she said after showing off her moves.
Related Stories
Inspired? Here are some ways to make a difference on this issue.
 
Your name:

