Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner said closing the budget gap will mean some painful choices.
Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner said closing the looming $6 billion budget gap will mean making some painful choices.
That means every program can expect cuts.
During a stop in the Quad Cities Wednesday, the Governor left open the possibility of a compromise to fix the budget.
Local Four caught up with the Governor at the Rock Island Arsenal.
Governor Rauner has already moved past the $1.6 billion budget compromise with lawmakers on this year's budget.
It's now all about the massive $6 billion dollar shortfall on the horizon.
"We've been spending money that we don't have.  We've had an unbalanced budget for years and years.  We've got to bring it into balance and that requires cuts," said Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner. 
Rauner wants cuts to make up the entire six-billion dollars.
"The cuts are across the board and impacting things everywhere but everything to me is under review we're going to be looking at all kinds of issues from transportation issues, etc," said Rauner. 
Rauner said some programs will need to be restructured first.
Some savings can come from that.
Then, it's possible to look at other options for raising revenue.
"I'm open to tax reform. The critical thing is that we get structure change inside the state. If we just raise income taxes, which is what many people are encouraging me to do, they say put in a graduated income tax that will fix the problems," said Rauner. 
But, Rauner said raising taxes doesn't always work. He points to similar problems in New Jersey that he said Illinois can't repeat.
"New Jersey has high property taxes like us, high sales taxes like us. They've already put in a graduated income tax. They have very high taxes where they can't afford to pay their pensions. They are not paying their pension because they have a big deficit because they haven't fixed their structural problem," said Rauner. 
Besides addressing the budget crisis, Governor Rauner also pushed his turnaround plan.
Part of that he said is to raise the minimum wage to $10.00 an hour. 
Copyright 2015 Nexstar Broadcasting, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

