Purvi Patel case goes viral
Indiana’s Religious Freedom Act is not the only case from the Hoosier State that is drawing international attention.
More from WSBT.com
The hash tags #PurviPatel and #FreePurviPatel are gaining steam on social media and many of Patel’s supporters say the Granger woman’s 20-year prison sentence for feticide and neglect sets a bad precedent for pregnant women.
The story went viral after major media outlets and blogs in the United States and other countries picked it up following Patel’s sentencing hearing Monday.
“That is an issue that is very, very common in India,” explained CNN-IBN reporter Shylaja Varma. “Especially in the Northern part of India. We have seen an increasing number of cases where they're having many cases of female feticide.”
The National Advocates for Pregnant Women organization said Patel is the first person in U.S. history to be sentenced for feticide for ending her own pregnancy.
The case is also stirring controversy.
“When people hear about [this case], pregnant women become discouraged from seeking healthcare when they're having a problem with their pregnancy,” said Kathrine Jack, legal counsel representing National Advocates for Pregnant Women.
The organization says feticide laws were created to protect rather than punish pregnant women. It claims Patel is being punished because of a miscarriage.
“I don’t consider it a precedent unless the Indiana Court of Appeals and the Indiana Supreme Court would uphold this conviction on appeal,” Jack added.
According to prosecutors in the case, Patel ordered abortion drugs online and documented taking them in text messages to a friend. In one text from July 2013, Patel allegedly said, “BTW, these pills taste like sh**. If these pills don’t work… I’m gonna be mad.”
She delivered the baby, estimated to be between 23 and 28 weeks gestation, on the floor of a bathroom inside her Granger home then put it in a dumpster behind a restaurant her family owns.
St. Joseph County Prosecutor Ken Cotter told WSBT 22 many people do not understand the facts of the case.
“The prosecution of Ms. Patel was focused on the fact that the child was born alive, and that Ms. Patel did nothing to help the child survive," Cotter said in a statement.
Patel’s supporters dispute one of several methods the state’s pathologist used to prove the baby was born alive and took a breath, saying some scientists claim it’s “outdated” and “discredited.”
Supporters also created an online petition to the White House , asking for “a full and immediate pardon” for Patel. The petition, created April 1, had nearly 5,000 signatures late Friday afternoon.
At her sentencing Monday, Hon. Elizabeth Hurley told Patel she’s a “woman of considerable means” and chose to take matters into her own hands rather than getting help for her baby. Patel indicated to the judge she planned to appeal and would retain her own lawyer.
But Patel apparently changed her mind. An April 16 hearing has been set to address Patel’s request for a public defender to represent her on appeal. 
Copyright © 2015, WSBT-TV
Comments
The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. Please note by clicking on "Post" you acknowledge that you have read the Terms Of Service and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. 
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

