A new study from the British Association of Dermatologists concluded sunscreen causes skin cancer.
It said skin cancer is caused by two types of ultraviolet light from the sun: UVA and UVB rays. The study states most sunscreens do not protect against both types of rays.
Dr. Craig Kraffert, a Redding dermatologist disagrees.
"We're in a situation where people are saying sunscreen could cause skin cancer," said Dr. Kraffert. "But nothing could be further from the truth."
Kraffert, a creator of a sunscreen line himself, said sunscreens marked 'broad spectrum' can protect people from skin cancer. 
"Sunscreens, ideally, should block both UVA and UVB to be considered broad spectrum."
He added broad spectrum sunscreens should be SPF 30 or higher and be labeled "water resistant." He said this is the best product to protect skin against harmful rays. He also stressed anything over SPF 75 is not regulated by the FDA and does not necessarily mean more protection.
Not all sunscreens are broad spectrum. Checking the label is crucial to finding the right one.
"The problem is making elegant sunscreens that are broad spectrum protection and water resistant is very expensive," added Dr. Kraffert. "Coppertone is a respected and good brand."
He added skin cancer is hardest to treat on the lips, nose and eyelids. Sunscreen should be worn on any part of the body not covered by clothes. Lip balm with SPF should be applied and a hat should be worn in the sun, according to Dr. Kraffert.
Copyright 2015 by KRCRTV.com All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Comments
The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.
Video
In association with
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

