Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
BY JONATHAN BERNSTEIN
04/04/2015 8:00 AM
04/02/2015 1:28 PM
Ignore those polls of early nomination trial heats!
Last week, Cruz was rising rapidly in the Republican test ballots. The Washington Post had him second to Bush. Public Policy Polling also has him in second place, but trailing Walker.
That tells you exactly one thing: Cruz received a burst of publicity by being the first to formally announce his candidacy. At this point, with more than a dozen candidates and almost a year to go before even the first primary vote, just getting air time, especially in the partisan media, is enough to get a bump.
Someone else will get some publicity, and another polling surge will commence. It won't have any predictive value, either.
Most Republican voters are inclined to basically like all of the party's candidates; almost anyone interested enough to vote in primary elections would vote for any of them in a general election, even the most obscure ones. And there’s very little to differentiate the candidates — and most of them will be long gone before most Republicans get a chance to vote.
At this point, polls basically reflect name recognition and recall, and candidates who have been in the news do better.
That’s why I don’t pay much attention to the candidates’ favorability numbers. It’s almost certain that any opinions held by primary electorates could easily be reversed as the campaign goes on.
If you want to know how the nomination race is going, follow the information about what party actors think, such as the Boston Globe’s tracker on endorsements from New Hampshire Republican players. Those indicators all show the race is still wide open.
To contact the author on this story: Jonathan Bernstein at jbernstein62@bloomberg.net
Bloomberg View
Follow Us
Oops, you haven't selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops, you didn't provide a valid email address. Please double-check the email field and submit again.
Sign up for email newsletters
5-Minute Herald (Monday - Friday) The best of the morning's Miami Herald.
Afternoon Update (Monday - Friday) Latest news, plus the afternoon business & national news.
News Alert (When it happens) the first to know when big news breaks.
Sports (Monday - Friday) Heat. Dolphins. Marlins. Panthers. Get into South Florida sports with Dan LeBatard, Greg Cote & the crowd.
Shopping & Entertainment Offers Shopping deals and sales, events and local entertainment offers.
Family Fare (Wednesdays) Have a family? Then this is your source for family friendly events, education news, health news and other important topics that parents need to know.
Partner Offers Other discounts and special offers from our carefully screened partners.
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

