Why Obama, Democrats and Apple CEO are Hypocrites About Indiana Religious Freedom Law
Apr. 8, 2015 9:00am
0
Shares
Email this story to a friend
The Religious Freedom ans Restoration Act in Indiana has been the biggest news in America for a week now.
This is all a joke, a distraction from what’s really being done to America by Barack Obama and his Marxist cabal of America-haters. Or haven’t you noticed an Iranian nuclear deal that allows Iran to gain nuclear weapons…or a new crisis of illegals at the border…debt escalating out of control… 40 straight months with over 46 million Americans on food stamps… GDP growth of zero now projected for the first quarter…and a disastrous jobs report.
First let’s “out” the opponents of this law. Let me start by saying I’m a true fiscal conservative but when it comes to social and bedroom issues, I’m a Libertarian. I believe in live and let live. I want government out of my bedroom and boardroom. The government shouldn’t be regulating marriage, only churches should marry people.
Image source: New York Times
And if a gay couple wanted a wedding cake from me, you know what I’d say? “How big?” But, that’s just me. I’m a capitalist, I’m happy to sell my products to everyone. That’s the American way.
But if someone asks me to violate my personal values, morals, or religious beliefs, or if I just don’t like what they are asking me to do, as a business owner of course I have a right to opt out. I’m not hurting them, or stopping them. That’s called free will. That’s called free speech, protected by the Constitution.
The radical gay agenda is infringing on our rights as Americans…as Christians…as business owners. And, it’s going to backfire.
The proof is the small town Indiana pizzeria that told a reporter they would refuse to make pizzas for a gay wedding. How silly. Weddings aren’t catered by pizzerias in the first place. But instantly they were inundated with death threats and even a local coach asking others on Twitter to join her in burning down the pizzeria. The family that owns the pizzeria closed its doors and ran for their own safety.
Then something interesting happened. Americans supported them….to the tune of over $842,000, donated by strangers on an online funding site. This pizzeria owner won the lottery. He should thank God for the radical gay agenda.
But back to the hypocrisy and fraud. First, the Indiana bill is a copy of a federal law signed by Democrat President Bill Clinton in 1993.
Isn’t Bill Clinton a friend of gays? Aren’t gay activists supporting Hillary Clinton for president? Yet not one gay activist blamed the Clintons.
This is just like the radical feminist activists who loved Bill Clinton and never said a word as he used his position of power to have sex with a young intern.
Isn’t that the very definition of sexual harassment? If it was a Republican president the same radical feminists would have screamed for resignation. But when Bill Clinton was the perpetrator, not a peep from the feminists. HYPOCRITES.
Then there’s Obama. What a hypocrite. Iran doesn’t discriminate against gays… they murder them. They throw them off roofs after torturing them. It’s barbaric. Yet Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry are doing business with Iran. Why are they willing to sit at the table with these gay killers?
And, if gay rights are really so important to Obama, why isn’t THE RIGHT TO NOT BE MURDERED FOR BEING GAY not part of the Iranian nuclear negotiation? HYPOCRITES.
Mahmoud Asgari, 16, left, and Ayaz Marhoni were hanged in Iran on sodomy charges in 2005. (AP)
Then there’s Apple CEO Tim Cook. He’s was all “fired up” by Indiana’s new law. Yet Apple makes billions selling its products in Russia , where gays have no rights; and, in Muslim countries like Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia where gays are murdered for their sexual preference; and in China where no one has any civil or human rights.
Why doesn’t Apple stop selling iPhones and iPads in those countries? Why doesn’t Apple close its Moscow store immediately? HYPOCRITES.
And then there’s the “pandora’s box” liberal gay activists just opened up:
Should a Muslim baker be forced by government to bake a cake for a gay wedding?
Should a Muslim butcher be forced by government to sell pork?
Should a gay baker be forced by government to bake a cake with anti-gay profanity on top?
Should a gay photographer be forced by government to photograph a rally where religious speakers are telling gays to go hell?
Should a Jewish owner of a security company in Skokie, Illinois be forced by government to provide security for a Nazi rally?
Should a church-going Christian mother be forced by government to cater an awards gala at a porn convention?
Should a church-going Christian mother who owns a print shop be forced by government to make banners for Spring Break that say, “SHOW ME YOUR BREASTS!”
Should an Obama-loving liberal business owner be forced by government to rent the stage at his event center for a Tea Party rally?
Should a black baker be forced by government to bake a cake with racist profanity and a black man in a noose for a KKK birthday party?
Where does it end? This is insanity. Government has no right to take away our rights of free will, free speech and free association. But, if you’re going to force Christian business owners to do things they don’t choose to do, then it goes both ways. The law has to be fairly applied to everyone… or it’s clearly discrimination and a violation of our civil rights.
–
TheBlaze contributor channel supports an open discourse on a range of views. The opinions expressed in this channel are solely those of each individual author.
0
Shares
Have a Tip?
Please try again later.
Give us a Scoop!
Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.
All information © 2015 TheBlaze Inc
You must be logged in to do that
Email subscriptions:
Sign Up

