Masthead, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:
Search form
 
 
'WTF,' 'meme' and other Internet slang added to the dictionary
By Alixandra Caole Vila  (philstar.com) | Updated May 27, 2015 - 2:40pm
“What the f—k.” sign. Photo by Airflore/CC-BY-NC-ND
MANILA, Philippines - Good news millennials. You can finally talk to your grandparents without feeling awkward and sounding alien as Merriam-Webster adds more slang terms to its dictionary.
The dictionary announced the addition of 1,700 terms via blog post  and social media on Tuesday.
You won't believe what we just added to the dictionary! Clickbait, WTF, & 1,700+ new entries in the Unabridged: http://t.co/qhlqjQNoin
According to the blog post, they have also added "3,200 examples that provide contextual information, and have updated and enhanced another 200 entries for some of the words people most frequently look up."
Most of the words added are those that refer to technology, food, economy and Internet slang.
Here are some of the new entries on the dictionary:
Click-bait: “something (such as a headline) designed to make readers want to click on a hyperlink especially when the link leads to content of dubious value or interest.”
Colossal squid: "an extremely large squid in the deep waters of the Southern Ocean."
Crema: "a layer of creamy tan froth that forms on the top of freshly made espresso."
Emoji: “any of various small images, symbols, or icons used in text fields in electronic communication to express the emotional attitude of the writer.”
Jegging: “a legging that is designed to resemble a tight-fitting pair of denim jeans and is made of a stretchable fabric.”
Macaron: “A light, often brightly coloured sandwich cookie consisting of two rounded disks made from a batter of egg whites, sugar, and almond flour surround a sweet filling.”
Meme: “An idea, behaviour, style, or usage that spreads from person to person within a culture.”
Net neutrality: “the idea, principle, or requirement that internet service providers should or must treat all internet data as the same regardless of its kind, source, or destination.”
Photobomb: "to move into the frame of a photograph as it is being taken as a joke or a prank."
Slendro: "a pentatonic tuning employed for Javanese gamelans that divides the octave into five roughly similar intervals."
NSFW: “Not safe for work”
WTF: “What the fuck.”
Homepage ( MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:
Tel. No. (632) 637-5400


Last year Merriam-Webster added selfie and hashtag to their vocabulary index soon to be flooded with modern colloquialisms
Merriam-Webster editors closely track each word’s usage and enter it into the system as citation, along with quotations exemplifying its use
The word must have enough citations to allow accurate judgments about its establishment, currency, and meaning
19 shares
Merriam-Webster Unabridged Dictionary added 1,700 new entries to their contents including WTF, clickbait, and photobomb.
The new turns of phrase along with 200 modified existing ones have been added to the online unabridged version, the company announced on Tuesday.
As more and more Americans get their information from the internet and engage in social media, the more online lingo and text abbreviations become a part of the cultural vocabulary.
Clickbait, says the dictionary, is a term that's been used since 2010 which means, 'something (such as a headline) designed to make readers want to click a hyperlink especially when the link leads to content of dubious value or interest.'
Last year Merriam-Webster added selfie and hashtag to their vocabulary index soon to be flooded with modern colloquialisms.
New terms: Merriam-Webster dictionary added 1,700 new entries to their unabridged version (not pictured) including WTF, clickbait, and photobomb on Tuesday 
SOME OF THE 1,700 NEW WORDS ADDED TO MERRIAM-WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED ONLINE DICTIONARY  
Colossal squid (noun): an extremely large squid (Mesonychoteuthis hamiltoni) occurring in deeper waters of the Southern Ocean that is the largest known living invertebrate.
Photobomb (verb or noun): To move into the frame of a photograph as it is being taken as a joke or a prank.
Emoji (noun): any of various small images, symbols, or icons used in text fields in electronic communication (as in text messages, e-mail and social media) to express the emotional attitude of the writer, convey information succinctly, communicate a message playfully without using words, etc.
Dark money (noun): money contributed to nonprofit organizations (especially those classified as social welfare organizations and business leagues) that is used to fund political campaigns without the disclosure of the donors’ identities.
Jegging (noun): a legging that is designed to resemble a tight-fitting pair of denim jeans and is made of a stretchable fabric — usually plural.
Meme (noun): an idea, behavior, style, or usage that spreads from person to person within a culture.
Net neutrality (noun): the idea, principle, or requirement that Internet service providers should or must treat all Internet data as the same regardless of its kind, source or destination.
Neurofeedback (noun): the technique of making brain activity perceptible to the sense (as by recording brain waves with an electroencephalograph and presenting them visually or audibly) in order to consciously alter such activity.
NSFW (abbreviation): not safe for work; not suitable for work — used to warn someone that a website, e-mail attachment, etc., is not suitable for viewing at most places of employment.
Slendro (noun): a pentatonic tuning employed for Javanese gamelans that divides the octave into five roughly similar internals.
Vocal fry (noun): a vocal effect produced by very slow vibration of the vocal cords and characterized by a creaking sound and low pitch.
WTF(abbreviation): What the f***-used especially to express or describe outraged surprise, recklessness, confusion or bemusement. 
Clickbait (noun): something (such as a headline) designed to make readers want to click a hyperlink especially when the link leads to content of dubious value or interest.
Palliative care (noun): Medical and related care provided to a patient with a serious, life-threatening, or terminal illness that is not intended to provide curative treatment but rather to manage symptoms, relieve pain and discomfort, improve quality of life, and meet the emotional, social and spiritual needs of the patient.
Hsaing-waing(noun): A traditional Burmese musical ensemble consisting largely of drums and gongs
Macaron (noun): A light, often brightly colored sandwich cookie consisting of two round disks made from a batter of egg whites, sugar, and almond flour surrounding a sweet filling (as of ganache, buttercream, or jam) 
Chilaquiles (noun): A Mexican dish of fried corn tortilla pieces simmered with salsa or mple or typically topped with cheese and other accompaniments (such as sliced onions, shredded chicken, and fried or scrambled eggs)
Crema (noun): A layer of creamy tan froth that forms on the top of freshly made espresso.
This year WTF, an abbreviation for what the f***, 'used especially to express or describe outraged surprise, recklessness, confusion or bemusement,' was officially included in the unabridged version.
To photobomb is 'to move into the frame of a photograph as it is being taken as a joke or a prank.,' reads the definition of the word used as a verb.
Photobomb can also be used as a noun to describe the act of photobombing or even to describe the person jumping into the photo as being the photobomber.
The jegging is a word to describe tight leggings that resemble jeans but that are softer and are often made of stretchy fabric. 
Photobomb: To move into the frame of a photograph as it is being taken as a joke or a prank
Macaron : A light, often brightly colored sandwich cookie consisting of two round disks made from a batter of egg whites, sugar, and almond flour surrounding a sweet filling (as of ganache, buttercream, or jam)
The dictionary also added terms to describe how people exchange money in the ever-changing American economy.
The term sharing economy describes the practice of individuals sharing goods or services such as taxi rides and places to stay and profiting off of them.
It’s usually done online through applications such as Lyft, Uber, ZipCar and Airbnb.
Merriam-Webster also made sure to words to describe current problems plaguing society that were never officially defined in the dictionary.
For instance, the term colony collapse disorder refers to the mass death of honeybees which has a direct effect on American agriculture.
Jegging : a legging that is designed to resemble a tight-fitting pair of denim jeans and is made of a stretchable fabric — usually plural
Chilaquiles: A Mexican dish of fried corn tortilla pieces simmered with salsa or mple or typically topped with cheese and other accompaniments (such as sliced onions, shredded chicken, and fried or scrambled eggs)
Dark money is a term used to describe money donated for political campaigns via non-profits in which donor's identities can be kept a secret.
As healthcare becomes more accessible and part of daily life, terms like palliative care were included to describe managing dying patients and attending to their needs.
Some foods like the pastry referred to a macaron and a mexican dish called chilaquiles were also included in the menu.
The Washington Post reports that despite many of these words being used frequently before being included in the dictionary, it's a long process deciding which ones make the cut and which ones don't.
Merriam-Webster editors closely track each word’s usage and enter it into the system as citation, along with quotations exemplifying its use in addition to source information.
Words need to be 'used in a substantial number of citations that come from a wide range of publications over a considerable period of time,' say Merriam-Webster.
'Specifically, the word must have enough citations to allow accurate judgments about its establishment, currency, and meaning,' the company concludes.
Some of the new words are a bit more obscure but still common enough to fit the criteria. One such word is Hsaing-waing, defined as a traditional Burmese musical ensemble consisting largely of drums and gongs.
Hsaing-waing: A traditional Burmese musical ensemble consisting largely of drums and gongs
Read more:
19
shares
Add your comment
Enter your comment
By posting your comment you agree to our house rules .
Submit Comment
More top stories
DON'T MISS
MORE DON'T MISS
 
 
 
Next story
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
 
 
 

