Masthead, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:
Search form
 
 
'WTF,' 'meme' and other Internet slang added to the dictionary
By Alixandra Caole Vila  (philstar.com) | Updated May 27, 2015 - 2:40pm
“What the f—k.” sign. Photo by Airflore/CC-BY-NC-ND
MANILA, Philippines - Good news millennials. You can finally talk to your grandparents without feeling awkward and sounding alien as Merriam-Webster adds more slang terms to its dictionary.
The dictionary announced the addition of 1,700 terms via blog post  and social media on Tuesday.
You won't believe what we just added to the dictionary! Clickbait, WTF, & 1,700+ new entries in the Unabridged: http://t.co/qhlqjQNoin
According to the blog post, they have also added "3,200 examples that provide contextual information, and have updated and enhanced another 200 entries for some of the words people most frequently look up."
Most of the words added are those that refer to technology, food, economy and Internet slang.
Here are some of the new entries on the dictionary:
Click-bait: “something (such as a headline) designed to make readers want to click on a hyperlink especially when the link leads to content of dubious value or interest.”
Colossal squid: "an extremely large squid in the deep waters of the Southern Ocean."
Crema: "a layer of creamy tan froth that forms on the top of freshly made espresso."
Emoji: “any of various small images, symbols, or icons used in text fields in electronic communication to express the emotional attitude of the writer.”
Jegging: “a legging that is designed to resemble a tight-fitting pair of denim jeans and is made of a stretchable fabric.”
Macaron: “A light, often brightly coloured sandwich cookie consisting of two rounded disks made from a batter of egg whites, sugar, and almond flour surround a sweet filling.”
Meme: “An idea, behaviour, style, or usage that spreads from person to person within a culture.”
Net neutrality: “the idea, principle, or requirement that internet service providers should or must treat all internet data as the same regardless of its kind, source, or destination.”
Photobomb: "to move into the frame of a photograph as it is being taken as a joke or a prank."
Slendro: "a pentatonic tuning employed for Javanese gamelans that divides the octave into five roughly similar intervals."
NSFW: “Not safe for work”
WTF: “What the fuck.”
Homepage ( MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:
Tel. No. (632) 637-5400


by Alex Ungerman      6:08 PM PDT, May 26, 2015
Getty Images
WTF is going on with the dictionary??
Merriam-Webster has added a whopping 1,700 new words to its dictionary, including a bunch of fun Internet phrases to anger your grandparents. With new words all the time it's getting hard to keep up! So let's take a look at some of the fun new entries.
"Any of various small images, symbols, or icons used if text fields in electronic communication to express the emotional attitude of the writer, convey information succinctly, communicate a message playfully without using words, etc."
This definition would be more fun if it were all emojis.
Clickbait (noun)
"Something (such as a headline) designed to make readers want to click on a hyperlink especially when the link leads to content of dubious value or interest."
Why would anyone ever do something like that?...
WTF (abbreviation)
"What the f**k -- used especially to express or describe outraged surprise, reclessness, confusion, or bemusement."
As in: "WTF?! WTF is in the dictionary now."
Meme (noun)
"An idea, behavior, style, or usage that spreads from person to person within a culture."
Those pictures with the impact font on your uncle's Facebook feed are what's keeping our social fabric together.
NSFW (abbreviation)
"Not safe for work; not suitable for work -- used to warn someone that a website, e-mail attachment, etc., is not suitable for viewing at most places of employment.
Luckily, this entry is very SFW.
Photobomb (verb)
"To step into the frame of a photograph as it is being taken as a joke or prank."
We're actually very happy with this entry.
In other words, deception has been added to the dictionary.
While these are fun and all, we should mention that one terrifying phrase has been added to the dictionary.
Collossal Squid (noun)
....
EVERYBODY RUN AWAY!!!
We're gonna go see if the dictionary makes sense to us anymore.
Sign Up
By checking this box you acknowledge our Privacy Policy and agree to the Terms of Use .
THANK YOU
Top Videos
We're Reading
MOST POPULAR
Sign Up
By checking this box you acknowledge our Privacy Policy and agree to the Terms of Use.
THANK YOU
CBS Television Distribution © 2015 CBS Studios Inc. All Rights Reserved

