Masthead, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:
Search form
 
 
'WTF,' 'meme' and other Internet slang added to the dictionary
By Alixandra Caole Vila  (philstar.com) | Updated May 27, 2015 - 2:40pm
“What the f—k.” sign. Photo by Airflore/CC-BY-NC-ND
MANILA, Philippines - Good news millennials. You can finally talk to your grandparents without feeling awkward and sounding alien as Merriam-Webster adds more slang terms to its dictionary.
The dictionary announced the addition of 1,700 terms via blog post  and social media on Tuesday.
You won't believe what we just added to the dictionary! Clickbait, WTF, & 1,700+ new entries in the Unabridged: http://t.co/qhlqjQNoin
According to the blog post, they have also added "3,200 examples that provide contextual information, and have updated and enhanced another 200 entries for some of the words people most frequently look up."
Most of the words added are those that refer to technology, food, economy and Internet slang.
Here are some of the new entries on the dictionary:
Click-bait: “something (such as a headline) designed to make readers want to click on a hyperlink especially when the link leads to content of dubious value or interest.”
Colossal squid: "an extremely large squid in the deep waters of the Southern Ocean."
Crema: "a layer of creamy tan froth that forms on the top of freshly made espresso."
Emoji: “any of various small images, symbols, or icons used in text fields in electronic communication to express the emotional attitude of the writer.”
Jegging: “a legging that is designed to resemble a tight-fitting pair of denim jeans and is made of a stretchable fabric.”
Macaron: “A light, often brightly coloured sandwich cookie consisting of two rounded disks made from a batter of egg whites, sugar, and almond flour surround a sweet filling.”
Meme: “An idea, behaviour, style, or usage that spreads from person to person within a culture.”
Net neutrality: “the idea, principle, or requirement that internet service providers should or must treat all internet data as the same regardless of its kind, source, or destination.”
Photobomb: "to move into the frame of a photograph as it is being taken as a joke or a prank."
Slendro: "a pentatonic tuning employed for Javanese gamelans that divides the octave into five roughly similar intervals."
NSFW: “Not safe for work”
WTF: “What the fuck.”
Homepage ( MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:
Tel. No. (632) 637-5400


By Kamal Nayan - 27 May '15 03:10AM
Merriam-Webster's unabridged online dictionary is adding 1,700 entries which includes words like Clickbait, emoji, jegging, photobomb and NSFW.
Clickbait was first used in 2010, according to the dictionary, which means "something (such as a headline) designed to make readers want to click on a hyperlink especially when the link leads to content of dubious value or interest."
Like Us on Facebook
Photobomb is to jump into a photo as it is being taken and jegging is a legging that looks like tight jeans. NSFW, is an acronym for 'not safe for work' (who did not know that already?)
Emoji is small images used in email and text messages - like this
Editor's pick
1
2
3
4
5
8
27 May '15 03:08AM
Politics
Entertainment
Life
Bloggers

