Masthead, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:
Search form
 
 
'WTF,' 'meme' and other Internet slang added to the dictionary
By Alixandra Caole Vila  (philstar.com) | Updated May 27, 2015 - 2:40pm
“What the f—k.” sign. Photo by Airflore/CC-BY-NC-ND
MANILA, Philippines - Good news millennials. You can finally talk to your grandparents without feeling awkward and sounding alien as Merriam-Webster adds more slang terms to its dictionary.
The dictionary announced the addition of 1,700 terms via blog post  and social media on Tuesday.
You won't believe what we just added to the dictionary! Clickbait, WTF, & 1,700+ new entries in the Unabridged: http://t.co/qhlqjQNoin
According to the blog post, they have also added "3,200 examples that provide contextual information, and have updated and enhanced another 200 entries for some of the words people most frequently look up."
Most of the words added are those that refer to technology, food, economy and Internet slang.
Here are some of the new entries on the dictionary:
Click-bait: “something (such as a headline) designed to make readers want to click on a hyperlink especially when the link leads to content of dubious value or interest.”
Colossal squid: "an extremely large squid in the deep waters of the Southern Ocean."
Crema: "a layer of creamy tan froth that forms on the top of freshly made espresso."
Emoji: “any of various small images, symbols, or icons used in text fields in electronic communication to express the emotional attitude of the writer.”
Jegging: “a legging that is designed to resemble a tight-fitting pair of denim jeans and is made of a stretchable fabric.”
Macaron: “A light, often brightly coloured sandwich cookie consisting of two rounded disks made from a batter of egg whites, sugar, and almond flour surround a sweet filling.”
Meme: “An idea, behaviour, style, or usage that spreads from person to person within a culture.”
Net neutrality: “the idea, principle, or requirement that internet service providers should or must treat all internet data as the same regardless of its kind, source, or destination.”
Photobomb: "to move into the frame of a photograph as it is being taken as a joke or a prank."
Slendro: "a pentatonic tuning employed for Javanese gamelans that divides the octave into five roughly similar intervals."
NSFW: “Not safe for work”
WTF: “What the fuck.”
Homepage ( MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:
Tel. No. (632) 637-5400


Merriam-Webster Dictionary Welcomes Emoji, Meme, Photobomb, Clickbait As Official Words
Conviron Altatis | May 26, 2015 09:35 PM EDT
Emoji  (Photo : Reuters/ Yuya Shino)
Emoji, meme, photobomb and clickbait are now official words. These four internet slang words are among the 23 new words legitimized by the unabridged Merriam-Webster dictionary.
Aside from emoji, meme, photobomb and clickbait, the dictionary also added terms about the natural world and physiology including colossal squid, colony collapse disorder, palliative care and neurofeedback. Other terms are about business and technology, such as net neutrality, click fraud, dark money and sharing economy.  
Like Us on Facebook
As defined by Merriam-Webster , emoji is "any of various small images, symbols, or icons in text fields in electronic communication to express the emotional attitude of the writer, convey information succinctly, communicate a message playfully without using words, etc."
The term emoji is borrowed from Japanese, in which the word literally means pictograph. It is a combination of e, which means picture, and moji, which means letter or character. Recently, the Unicode Consortium has released 38 proposed new emoji for 2016. In April, Apple released numerous new emoji in iOS 8.3, Refinery29 reported.   
Two of the 23 new official words are about linguistics, which are vocal fry and eggcorn, four are about food, which are crema, lambrusco, chilaquiles and macaron, two are about music, which are hsaing-waing and slendro, and one is about clothing, which is jeggings.
 
Related News
1
3
5
In Case You Missed It

