The Salt Lake Tribune
First Published 14 minutes ago    •    Updated 8 minutes ago
(Jim Urquhart  |  The Salt Lake Tribune)   (POOL) - "Super" Dell Buck Schanze, left, listens to his attorney Harold Stone at the beginning of his criminal case Monday, June 7, 2010 at Fourth District Court in Orem.  "Super" Dell Buck Schanze is appealing his conviction during a jury trial today over his conviction last summer on reckless driving charges. 6/7/10
(Jim Urquhart  |  The Salt Lake Tribune)   (POOL) - "Super" Dell Buck Schanze, left, listens to his attorney Harold Stone at the beginning of his criminal case Monday, June 7, 2010 at Fourth District Court in Orem.  "Super" Dell Buck Schanze is appealing his conviction during a jury trial today over his conviction last summer on reckless driving charges. 6/7/10
Share This Article
ARTICLE PHOTO GALLERY (3)
Dell "Super Dell" Schanze is expected Thursday to plead guilty to harassing a migratory bird from a paraglider.
The onetime television pitchman is scheduled for a plea and sentencing at 2 p.m. on Thursday in Salt Lake City's U.S. District Court before Judge Dee Benson, the court record shows.
Schanze, 45, was charged in October 2014 with one count each of misdemeanor knowingly using an aircraft to harass wildlife and pursuing a migratory bird for a 2011 incident near Utah Lake that showed up in YouTube videos. The charges followed a federal investigation into the online video, which surfaced in 2013 and appeared to show a paraglider pilot, later identified as Schanze, kicking a soaring barn owl and boasting about it.
TOP JOBS
Prosecutors believe the flight happened in February or March 2011.
At a hearing in December, Schanze entered not guilty pleas to both charges, but asked U.S. Magistrate Brooke Wells to dismiss his case, saying he believe the video had been doctored.
A jury trial in the case had been set for April 20.
Schanze is well known for his local television ads for his business Totally Awesome Computers, which was shuttered in 2006.
 
 
 
POPULAR NEWS

