Some of cricket's suits won't want this getting out, but more fans are interested in the Indian Premier League than the World Cup.
Struggling up the Alps and crossing the finish line at the Arc de Triomphe is any professional rider's dream.
'Happy' singer Pharrell Williams will perform a one-night only private concert and launch a Sustainable T-shirt Design Competition with retailer Woolworths.
UNCHANGED0.00%
All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by Profile Data
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.
Fri Apr 10 01:10:07 SAST 2015
©The Daily Telegraph | 2015-04-10 00:46:15.0
As President Barack Obama held court at a high-powered meeting in Utah, just who was the scruffy bloke sitting to the right?. File photo
Image by: JONATHAN ERNST / REUTERS
In the staid and rather predictable world of presidential photo calls, it was a rare moment of intrigue.
Save & Share
As President Barack Obama held court at a high-powered meeting in Utah, just who was the scruffy bloke sitting to the right?
Why did he not have a name plate on the table, like the other assembled congressmen, mayors and senators? And why, instead if being in a smart suit and tie, had he decided to meet the leader of the Free World wearing just a casual polo shirt?
As the picture gradually went viral on the internet, conspiracy theories abounded. Was he a "photo-bomber" who had achieved the ultimate hit by penetrating White House security? Had Kim Jong-un's hacking teams doctored the photograph? Or was it someone from the IT department who had accidentally been given an invite?
As it turned out, the last explanation was the closest to the truth.
The man in the picture, since identified as Marvin Lance Futch, 26, is an employee in the computer-assisted design department at Vivint, a solar energy company in Utah.
When the president swept into town last week for a meeting to make a speech on employing war veterans in the solar energy industry, Futch's company received an invitation to send a representative.
Thinking he would merely be part of an audience, the company decided it was a job for Futch, a part-time airman in the National Guard, rather than the company's CEO.
Futch realised the mix-up only when he turned up for the event at Utah Air Force base and found himself being ushered into a tiny room instead of a big auditorium. He was seated next to Utah senator Orrin Hatch and congressman Rob Bishop, only two chairs away from Obama.
"When President Obama walked in, I'm looking down at my white polo going, 'Well, if I would have known this I would have worn my military blues or at least a suit and tie'," Futch told the New York Post.
As it turned out, Futch was able to give a good account of himself, being well-placed to talk about miliary veterans' affairs.
But the US Air Force was not impressed. Futch has been cropped out of photos of the meeting.
SHARE YOUR OPINION
If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article, please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.
5
© 2015 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.

