Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
6 things to know about the NRA national convention
The National Rifle Association will hold its annual convention April 10-12 in Nashville. Here's a breakdown of what you need to know.
Post to Facebook
6 things to know about the NRA national convention The National Rifle Association will hold its annual convention April 10-12 in Nashville. Here's a breakdown of what you need to know. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1ygK5C2
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
6 things to know about the NRA national convention
The Tennessean 1:37 p.m. EDT April 9, 2015
The 2105 NRA national convention will run from Friday, April 10, 2015 through Sunday, April 12.
(Photo: 2013 photo by Johnny Hanson, AP)
The National Rifle Association's Annual Meeting & Exhibits begins Friday and runs through Sunday. Here are six things to know about the national convention.
1. More than 70,000 people are expected
Planners for the NRA expect more than 70,000 people to converge on the Music City Center for the three-day convention. In 2013, more than 86,000 people attended the NRA convention in Houston. The NRA has 5 million due-paying members, and the convention surrounds an annual required meeting of the members. The next NRA conventions will be held in Louisville, Atlanta and Dallas.
Jerry Miller, of Georgetown, Texas, looks over a rifle at the National Rifle Association's annual convention on  April 25, 2014 in Indianapolis. Several potential
 (Photo: AJ Mast, AP)
2. How does that compare?
80,000 music fans a day are expected for the four-day CMA Music Festival downtown in June. An estimated 80,000 will converge on Manchester, Tenn., for the Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival, also in June.
Matt Shultz of Cage the Elephant performs at the 2014 Bonnaroo Arts And Music Festival in Manchester, Tenn.
 (Photo: FilmMagic for Bonnaroo Arts And)
3. Guns, guns and more guns
The NRA convention will be the host of concerts, meetings, forums, auctions, breakfasts, children's activities and, of course, "9 acres of guns," according to an ad for the event. Over 400 exhibitors are competing for space within the 350,000-square-foot Music City Center, and the excess of conventioneers, displaying everything from antique guns and high-tech scopes to "just about anything a person could want in camouflage," is expected to flow outside the center.
Guns are shown on display on April 25, 2014, at the NRA convention in Indianapolis. A bill in Indiana proposes a few changes to the state code that governs lawsuits against firearms manufacturers and sellers -- changes that the bill’s chief proponent says targets a long-dormant lawsuit by the city of Gary.
 (Photo: Matt Detrich, The Indianapolis Star)
4. Speakers
A long list of political heavyweights, including several GOP presidential hopefuls , will speak at the NRA-ILA Leadership Forum. Scheduled to speak are Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, former Florida governor Jeb Bush, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, former Texas governor Rick Perry, former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, Donald Trump and more. Former vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin was also scheduled to speak, but the conservative favorite abruptly canceled her appearance Wednesday.
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, speaks at a campaign event on April 2, 2015, in Cedar Falls, Iowa.
 (Photo: Matthew Putney, AP)
5. Entertainment
Not all the big names rolling out for the convention are associated with politics. Hank Williams Jr. and Colt Ford will perform a free NRA Country Jam V concert on Broadway on Friday. On Saturday, the NRA will present Alan Jackson's 'Keepin' It Country" Tour, with comedian Jeff Foxworthy, at Bridgestone Arena. Jonathan Falwell, a pastor and son of Jerry Falwell, will speak at the Sunday morning prayer breakfast. Also on Sunday, rock star Ted Nugent is scheduled to speak "about what you can do to keep his country free" and will maybe sing at the Music City Center.
Alan Jackson
6. Security
A multilevel security plan went into works not long after Nashville was chosen as the convention destination. All guns on display on the exhibit floor will be nonoperational, with the firing pins removed, and any guns purchased during the NRA convention will have to be picked up at a Federal Firearms License dealer, near where the purchaser lives, and will require a legal identification. The NRA and Music City Center have confirmed that gun owners with the proper carry permits can bring their guns into the center during the convention. However, Bridgestone Arena, where an NRA-sponsored concert will be held Saturday, does not allow weapons.
A convention-goer picks up a Ruger 1911 model .45 semi-auto handgun at the National Rifle Association annual convention May 4, 2013, in Houston.
 (Photo: Karen Bleier, AFP/Getty Images)
USA NOW
Apr 09, 2015

