Published: 10:14 am, Wednesday, 27 May 2015
More than 1000 people have died because of soaring temperatures in parts of southern and northern India, with the heatwave expected to continue this week.
The hottest place was the city of Allahabad, in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, which saw the mercury rise to 47.7C on Sunday, while the capital, Delhi, recorded a high of 43.5C.
India's Met Office has issued a red alert to affected regions, warning of a continuing heatwave.
A senior official in Andhra Pradesh's Disaster Management Department said: 'We are advising people not to go to work between 10 am to 4pm.
'We have also opened centres in different places, specially in urban areas for the distribution of water and buttermilk.'
Doctors working in hospitals have had their leave cancelled following a huge rise in heat stroke admissions and the government said it would pay compensation of 100,000 rupees (1,022) to families of those who have died.
More than 200 people have died in the neighbouring state of Telangana and officials are advising people to stay indoors during the hottest times of the day, to drink plenty of fluids, and to wear loose clothing.
Most of those who died were builders, the elderly and the homeless, as temperatures soar as high as 47C in some areas.
Taxi drivers in Kolkata - capital of West Bengal state, where four deaths have been reported - are no longer working at the peak of the heat because of the deaths of two drivers who died in their cars last week.
In the cities, large crowds of office workers gathered around stalls selling cold fruit drinks while others plunged into fountains.
Blistering hot, dry winds have also swept across most parts of north and central India, wilting plants and making people avoid being outside.
The sweltering temperatures are predicted to continue in southern India for at least another week.
It is hoped that monsoon rains, expected to arrive in the southern state of Kerala in the first week of June, should bring some respite.
The monsoon season runs through to September as the rains gradually cover the entire country.
Share this:

