A
A
A
bsmp2/via Instagram
Sgt. Dakota Meyer and Bristol Palin called off their wedding just days before they were slated to tie the knot in Kentucky on Saturday.
bsmp2 via Instagram
The couple became engaged in March, launching whirlwind plans to get married this month.
Sgt. Dakota Meyer and Bristol Palin called off their wedding just days before they were slated to tie the knot in Kentucky on Saturday.
Bristol Palin has broken her silence, addressing her called-off wedding to U.S. Marine and war hero Sgt. Dakota Meyer for the first time.
"Sorry it's taken me so long to talk about this... It's been hard," the 24-year-old began in a Facebook post Tuesday that linked to a statement on her blog.
There, in a post titled "The Wedding That Didn't Happen," she spoke of her broken engagement to the Medal of Honor recipient — as well as an apparent broken heart.
"I guess you have seen by now that the wedding — that was supposed to happen last weekend — was called off," she stated.
bsmp2 via Instagram
In a blog post, the 24-year-old single mother said that she and her young son, pictured here with Meyer, are working to rebuild their lives 'under much different circumstances.'
The single mother, who publicly announced her engagement to Meyer just in March, went on to ask for prayers during "a painful time for family and friends."
"I know God's plan is greater than anything else, and Tripp and I are in Alaska beginning to rebuild our lives under much different circumstances than we anticipated," she stated while mentioning her 6-year-old son whose father, Levi Johnston, she was twice engaged to.
Why Saturday's wedding was called off remains publicly unaddressed by both the Palins and Meyer.
bsmp2 via Instagram
Bristol Palin shows off her engagement ring in an Instagram photo posted in March.
Curiously the news, announced by her mother Sarah Palin on Facebook last week, came just days after documents emerged showing that Meyer previously wed a Michigan woman in 2008 at the age of 19 in Kentucky.
Bristol Palin claimed that she knew about this prior marriage and insisted that Meyer and the woman divorced "years ago." A public records search by the Daily News recovered no trace of divorce papers containing Meyer's name in Kentucky or Michigan.
On Saturday close friends and family still gathered in Kentucky where the young couple's nuptials were planned.
Instead of celebrating a wedding, however, Sarah Palin said they'd "celebrate life, in general!"
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
She calls it "a painful time."
Post to Facebook
Bristol Palin breaks silence on canceled wedding She calls it "a painful time." Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1Hv7tcR
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
26
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Bristol Palin breaks silence on canceled wedding
Andrea Mandell , USA TODAY 8:30 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
Bristol Palin and Dakota Meyer.
(Photo: AFP/Getty Images)
The title of Bristol Palin's latest blog post sums it up: "The Wedding That Didn't Happen."
Bristol, 24, was set to marry U.S. Marine Dakota Meyer, 26, over Memorial Day weekend but canceled the nuptials a week ago. Some speculated the wedding was called off because Meyer allegedly had hidden a previous marriage to another woman, but the Palin family dismissed the rumors.
Now, Bristol is speaking out.
❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
"I guess you have seen by now that the wedding — that was supposed to happen last weekend — was called off," Bristol writes . "I'm sure you've seen this has been all over the media, but this is a painful time for family and friends and I would just really appreciate your prayers."
Meanwhile, Sarah Palin announced on Facebook the couple's families still planned to gather with invited guests at the former groom's Kentucky farm (also the canceled wedding location) "to celebrate life, in general!" for a barbecue over the long weekend.
enjoying this beautiful weekend in AK ❤️❤️
Sarah Palin also issued comment to People from her daughter about the breakup rumors. "Regarding salacious headlines in recent days about 'secret wives,' Dakota and I discussed our past relationships prior to our engagement," said Bristol in a statement.
Details as to why the wedding was called off remain undisclosed. Over the weekend, Bristol shared photographs of herself back home in Alaska with her young son, Tripp.
"I know God's plan is greater than anything else, and Tripp and I are in Alaska beginning to rebuild our lives under much different circumstances than we anticipated," she concluded in her post. "Thank you for all of your love and support."
Stop growing my little chicken nugget 😩😖 only thing I need in life ❤️❤️ #threepostsoneday #askmehowmuchicare
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1Hv7tcR
TOP VIDEOS
May 26, 2015

