A
A
A
bsmp2/via Instagram
Sgt. Dakota Meyer and Bristol Palin called off their wedding just days before they were slated to tie the knot in Kentucky on Saturday.
bsmp2 via Instagram
The couple became engaged in March, launching whirlwind plans to get married this month.
Sgt. Dakota Meyer and Bristol Palin called off their wedding just days before they were slated to tie the knot in Kentucky on Saturday.
Bristol Palin has broken her silence, addressing her called-off wedding to U.S. Marine and war hero Sgt. Dakota Meyer for the first time.
"Sorry it's taken me so long to talk about this... It's been hard," the 24-year-old began in a Facebook post Tuesday that linked to a statement on her blog.
There, in a post titled "The Wedding That Didn't Happen," she spoke of her broken engagement to the Medal of Honor recipient — as well as an apparent broken heart.
"I guess you have seen by now that the wedding — that was supposed to happen last weekend — was called off," she stated.
bsmp2 via Instagram
In a blog post, the 24-year-old single mother said that she and her young son, pictured here with Meyer, are working to rebuild their lives 'under much different circumstances.'
The single mother, who publicly announced her engagement to Meyer just in March, went on to ask for prayers during "a painful time for family and friends."
"I know God's plan is greater than anything else, and Tripp and I are in Alaska beginning to rebuild our lives under much different circumstances than we anticipated," she stated while mentioning her 6-year-old son whose father, Levi Johnston, she was twice engaged to.
Why Saturday's wedding was called off remains publicly unaddressed by both the Palins and Meyer.
bsmp2 via Instagram
Bristol Palin shows off her engagement ring in an Instagram photo posted in March.
Curiously the news, announced by her mother Sarah Palin on Facebook last week, came just days after documents emerged showing that Meyer previously wed a Michigan woman in 2008 at the age of 19 in Kentucky.
Bristol Palin claimed that she knew about this prior marriage and insisted that Meyer and the woman divorced "years ago." A public records search by the Daily News recovered no trace of divorce papers containing Meyer's name in Kentucky or Michigan.
On Saturday close friends and family still gathered in Kentucky where the young couple's nuptials were planned.
Instead of celebrating a wedding, however, Sarah Palin said they'd "celebrate life, in general!"
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


Newsletter may include personalized content. Learn more .
2015-05-26 13:39:22
2015-05-26 12:33:33
38 minutes ago
BEVERLY HILLS, CA - JULY 27:  Dancer Bristol Palin speaks onstage at the 'Dancing with the Stars: All-Stars' panel during the Disney/ABC Television Group portion of the 2012 Summer TCA Tour on July 27, 2012 in Beverly Hills, California.  (Photo by Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images) | Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images
One week after former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin (R) announced that her daughter, Bristol, would no longer marry Medal of Honor recipient Dakota Meyer, the daughter of the 2008 vice presidential candidate is breaking her silence on the canceled nuptials.
"I guess you have seen by now that the wedding -- that was supposed to happen last weekend --was called off," Bristol Palin wrote on her blog . "I'm sure you’ve seen this has been all over the media, but this is a painful time for family and friends and I would just really appreciate your prayers."
She continued: "I know God’s plan is greater than anything else, and Tripp and I are in Alaska beginning to rebuild our lives under much different circumstances than we anticipated."
Palin and Meyer announced their engagement in March, and were to be married on May 23. After the couple called their wedding off, Sarah Palin said friends and family still planned to gather in Kentucky to " celebrate life, in general ."
Bristol Palin, however, spent the day with friends in Alaska, and shared photos of her weekend on Instagram:
A photo posted by Bristol Palin (@bsmp2) on
May 23, 2015 at 5:16pm PDT
of
More:
Conversations
Options
Politics
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Politics
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Politics
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

