A
A
A
bsmp2/via Instagram
Sgt. Dakota Meyer and Bristol Palin called off their wedding just days before they were slated to tie the knot in Kentucky on Saturday.
bsmp2 via Instagram
The couple became engaged in March, launching whirlwind plans to get married this month.
Sgt. Dakota Meyer and Bristol Palin called off their wedding just days before they were slated to tie the knot in Kentucky on Saturday.
Bristol Palin has broken her silence, addressing her called-off wedding to U.S. Marine and war hero Sgt. Dakota Meyer for the first time.
"Sorry it's taken me so long to talk about this... It's been hard," the 24-year-old began in a Facebook post Tuesday that linked to a statement on her blog.
There, in a post titled "The Wedding That Didn't Happen," she spoke of her broken engagement to the Medal of Honor recipient — as well as an apparent broken heart.
"I guess you have seen by now that the wedding — that was supposed to happen last weekend — was called off," she stated.
bsmp2 via Instagram
In a blog post, the 24-year-old single mother said that she and her young son, pictured here with Meyer, are working to rebuild their lives 'under much different circumstances.'
The single mother, who publicly announced her engagement to Meyer just in March, went on to ask for prayers during "a painful time for family and friends."
"I know God's plan is greater than anything else, and Tripp and I are in Alaska beginning to rebuild our lives under much different circumstances than we anticipated," she stated while mentioning her 6-year-old son whose father, Levi Johnston, she was twice engaged to.
Why Saturday's wedding was called off remains publicly unaddressed by both the Palins and Meyer.
bsmp2 via Instagram
Bristol Palin shows off her engagement ring in an Instagram photo posted in March.
Curiously the news, announced by her mother Sarah Palin on Facebook last week, came just days after documents emerged showing that Meyer previously wed a Michigan woman in 2008 at the age of 19 in Kentucky.
Bristol Palin claimed that she knew about this prior marriage and insisted that Meyer and the woman divorced "years ago." A public records search by the Daily News recovered no trace of divorce papers containing Meyer's name in Kentucky or Michigan.
On Saturday close friends and family still gathered in Kentucky where the young couple's nuptials were planned.
Instead of celebrating a wedding, however, Sarah Palin said they'd "celebrate life, in general!"
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


Sign Up For The Daily Juice
Email
Submit
Name
Email
Phone#
Yes, please sign me up to receive The Daily Juice Privacy Policy
send tip
Posted on
Instagram
Bristol Palin has finally confirmed the news that she called off her wedding to her fiancé after Radar exclusively reported that he had a secret wife.
Sarah Palin’s oldest daughter was set to tie the knot to Dakota Meyer on May 23, 2015 in Kentucky, but after Radar’s bombshell news she called off the nuptials . Her mom revealed the news last week but Bristol spoke out for the first time Tuesday.
“I feel like I need to address the elephant-in-the-room on this blog , since you guys have been with me through thick and thin,” the 24-year-old wrote on May 26, 2015.
Court records obtained by Radar revealed that Meyer married Cassandra Wain in 2008, and while Bristol initially claimed that she already knew about the marriage, she didn’t walk down the aisle with the Medal of Honor winner. Meyer and Wain reportedly divorced before he began dating Bristol.
“I guess you have seen by now that the wedding — that was supposed to happen last weekend — was called off. I’m sure you’ve seen this has been all over the media, but this is a painful time for family and friends and I would just really appreciate your prayers,” she wrote.
Her mother, the former vice-presidential candidate, was reportedly seen arguing with Meyer at the BBQ in Kentucky over the weekend, but Bristol was a no-show at the party thrown for friends and family.
Instead, she posted a picture with her son Tripp, whom she shares with deadbeat dad Levi Johnston, on her blog when she wrote the note admitting that she was not going to become Mrs. Meyer.
“I know God’s plan is greater than anything else, and Tripp and I are in Alaska beginning to rebuild our lives under much different circumstances than we anticipated,” she explained. “Thank you for all of your love and support.”
What do you think about Bristol’s wedding woes? Sound off in comments below.
Thank you for subscribing!
Sign up to get the latest gossip, hard-hitting exclusives, glamor, photos and      videos delivered straight to your inbox.
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

