ago
Police say a hip hop concert was ending for the night when multiple shots were fired early this morning.
ago
CAIRO (AP) — An explosion has hit a bridge near an upscale neighborhood in central Cairo, killing at least one person. An Associated Press r…
April 4, 2015
Before the yelling and the clenched fists, we caught up with all of this year’s Final Four Men’s coaches to see some hugs, smiles and person…
Stunt Coordinator James Bamford discusses the background behind the Wildcat and Brick street fight on Arrow.
April 3, 2015
‘A.D. The Bible Continues’ picks up where ‘The Bible’ left off, exploring what happens after the crucifixion of Christ. Juan Pablo Di Pace w…
April 3, 2015
Forgiveness is perhaps one of the more challenging things to do, especially when the harm done to you or someone you love is severe, it can …
By NBC Published:
MEMPHIS (NBC VOD) — Thousands gathered at the National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis Saturday to commemorate the 47th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
People started the day with a march to the national civil rights museum, and people traveled from all over the country to show their support and honor Dr. King’s memory.
Saturday, many gathered in the courtyard below the balcony to reflect on the civil rights leader’s legacy.
Emma Hammonds who traveled from New York said,”He strived so hard that we could have jobs, we could go to school, we could have a good education.”
Rob Gilbert said, “He realized what his job needed to be, so yeah just a courageous person.”
The National Civil Rights Museum was once the Lorraine Motel, and a wreath now marks the balcony where Dr. King was killed by an assassin’s bullet.
Share this:
April 4, 2015
Music filled White River State Park in Indianapolis for the 2015 AT&T Block Party.
© 2000-2015 LIN Television Corporation, a Media General company. All rights reserved
April 2015
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:

