Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Presidential call shows Corker's growing influence in foreign affairs
Trips to his home state have changed for Tennessee Senator Bob Corker now that he is head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Post to Facebook
Presidential call shows Corker's growing influence in foreign affairs Trips to his home state have changed for Tennessee Senator Bob Corker now that he is head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Check out this story on WBIR.com: http://on.wbir.com/1yereHP
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Presidential call shows Corker's growing influence in foreign affairs
Tennessee Senator Bob Corker (R) is playing a key role in shaping america's foreign policy including regular calls with President Obama and his staff. April 8, 2015 WBIR
Mary Scott, WBIR 8:06 p.m. EDT April 8, 2015
Senator Bob Corker (R) in an interview with WBIR
(Photo: WBIR)
(WBIR - KNOXVILLE) - Trips to his home state have changed for Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker now that he is head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Corker is playing a key role in shaping America's foreign policy, and his constituents are interested in being a part of the conversation.
Corker is on a nine-county tour of Tennessee during the congressional recess.  But that doesn't mean he's getting a break from policy discussions.
While speaking at a Knoxville Chamber event Wednesday, the senator had to briefly delay his speech to take a call from President Obama.
Corker was vague about the details but said the conversation was about the Iran negotiations.
"I don't repeat conversations, but generally speaking it was about the issue at hand," the Chattanooga Republican said.
Corker is sponsoring a bill that gives Congress the final approval on any deal with Iran.  The United States and major allies are in the process of working out details of an agreement with Iran to keep the country from building nuclear weapons in exchange for reducing economic sanctions.  A verbal agreement was reached last week and a written policy is expected in June.
The President objects to the bill and has promised to veto it.
Senator Bob Corker speaks to members of the Knoxville Chamber about foreign policy
 (Photo: WBIR)
At the White House press briefing Thursday, spokesman Josh Earnest, used the president's phone call to Corker as an example of him working across the aisle on the deal.
"The President said to him what he has said publicly, which is that he certainly has a lot of respect for the way that Chairman Corker has approached the situation; they have obvious differences.  But the president made the case to him once again that the president believes that this principled approach to diplomacy is the best way for us to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon," Earnest told reporters.
On the tour, Corker said he's been encouraged by his constituents' knowledge and interest in the negotiations.
"It's pretty amazing. It hasn't always been the case, but the public seems to be very interested in a lot of the foreign policy issues that our nation is dealing with," he said.
Every question asked by business people in the community was about foreign policy.
Corker argues that Congress needs to fully examine any Iran deal that Obama might make. He said the only reason Iran is at the table is because of the sanctions Congress put on Iran in the 1990s.
"We're saying since we put these sanctions in place, shouldn't we on behalf of the American people, people here in Knox County, shouldn't we have the ability to go through this in detail, let it lay before the Senate for 60 days... and the right to approve or disapprove?" Corker said.
On Thursday, Corker will be speaking in Chattanooga, Sewanee, and Gallatin.  On Friday, he will deliver the opening remarks at the National Rifle Association Leadership convention.
Corker also will be a guest Sunday on WBIR's "Inside Tennessee." The public affairs show will air at 9:30 a.m. Sunday.
3 CONNECT 2 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: http://on.wbir.com/1yereHP
More Stories

