Search
Microsoft gets more OEMs, device partners to install apps on Android devices
May 26, 2015
If you can't beat them, join them. This is exactly what Microsoft is doing in the mobile industry. Because it may be long before Windows Phone will totally be out there and join Android and iOS on top, the software giant is working hard to bring the best Microsoft experience by teaming up with more partners and businesses to bring services that will allow more productivity and efficiency in one's digital life.
No doubt Microsoft programs are widely used and have since been regarded as a standard in personal computers but since the digital world is mobile and now it's getting into the "cloud", Microsoft needs to adapt some more to bring more businesses, consumers, and developers the best Microsoft experiences all the time from any device running whatever platform. To do this, the company already re-engineered some of their flagship products to work on mobile. They're more modern now and are integrated into many other products as well. Majority of Windows programs already have Android and iOS versions.
As another strategy to win over the industry, Microsoft also acquired company that are also "rethinking traditional categories of productivity". The likes of Office and OneNote are available on more devices and platforms now. The Phone Companion app for Windows 10 PC which we featured earlier is another way to connect Windows, Android, and iOS.
Back in March, Microsoft partnered with Dell, Samsung, Pegatron, and eight other regional OEMs to pre-install Skype and Microsoft Office on their Android tablets. This will bring easier access to Microsoft apps and services from the mobile devices developed by the said brands. Microsoft has just announced that 20 more global and local OEM partners have agreed to add Microsoft apps readily available on Android tablets. Included in the list are LG , Haier, Sony , Positiv, and Wortman.
These partners agreed to pre-install their Android tablets with Microsoft productivity apps like Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, OneDrive, and Skype. First ones to include them are the Sony Xperia Z4 tablet and a new LG tablet.
Microsoft's cross-platform services strategy aims to bring Microsoft services to every one using every device. These partners will help increase the value of those phones and tablet by bringing rich productivity experiences most people want using the popular Microsoft programs we all have grown to love.
Here is a complete list of Microsoft's partners:
• Axdia International GMBH – Germany
• LG – Global
• Multilaser – Brazil
• Noblex – Argentina
• Wortmannn – Germany
SOURCE: Microsoft
Story Timeline
© 2007-2014 Android Community, All Rights Reserved. - Part of R3 Media LLC
Site Information

