Sign Up
Officials at obscure state of Wisconsin agency discuss arena loan
Apr 9, 2015, 3:00pm CDT Updated: Apr 9, 2015, 3:21pm CDT
Thank you for sharing. Your email has been sent.
Email address of friend (insert comma between multiple addresses):
Your email address:
Renderings from Populous, HNTB and Eppstein Uhen Architects
The arena project might include a plaza and a covered area for year-round events.
The three-member Wisconsin Board of Commissioners of Public Lands discussed possible arena financing at its Tuesday meeting but took no action.
The commission makes loans to municipalities and school districts for public purpose projects and possesses the financial capacity to make a loan of $150 million or more, executive secretary Tia Nelson said in an interview Thursday.
See Also
Such a loan could play a major role in public funding toward a new arena. The Milwaukee Bucks owners are seeking $250 million in public funds to match their $150 million and $100 million from former owner Herb Kohl .
Nelson said at Tuesday’s board meeting that arena-loan options could include Milwaukee County or the state borrowing the money from the commission, according to a story by JR Ross at WisPolitics.com. But Nelson said there had been no discussions she was aware of that included a transaction directly with a public authority — possibly an arena district board — that would be created to oversee the new arena.
Nelson told commissioners she anticipated a new plan would be part of the state budget.
“I don’t think the deal has gelled yet,” Nelson said Thursday. “We’re not a part of the conversations.”
The board of commissioners would have to approve any loan, Nelson said. The state Legislature cannot compel the board to act, she said.
The board consists of two Republicans — state Treasurer Matt Adamczyk and Attorney General Brad Schimel — and one Democrat — Secretary of State Douglas La Follette .
Page 1
Related links:
Comments
If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
Inside The Business Journal
GeminiCares owner blames layoffs on state actions, uncertainty on @ GovWalker proposal http://t.co/QTBLHf8h0V
BANKING CHANGES: @ AnchorBank offering voluntary layoffs to 137, reducing branch count http://t.co/kTqz8i3S4V
Controller Milaeger's | Racine, WI

