More
More
Times points
HI,
The Times of India
The Times of India
Techradar | May 27, 2015, 12.19 PM IST
RELATED
Microsoft has just announced that Cortana will be spreading her fingers to more pies by jumping to Android and iOS devices.
Currently, Microsoft's Halo-based virtual assistant is exclusive to Windows Phone -- this marks the first time any of the key virtual assistant programmes have adapted onto other another OS.
Dedicated apps are launching in the Google Play Store and App Store giving you the same abilities as Windows Phone including reminders and flight tracking.
A few features don't make the jump to the platform as the app can't tap into the OS as easily, so you'll lose hands-free activation and options to launch apps directly.
Hello Cortana
The Cortana Notebook feature, which remembers all your preferences and history, will now sync up across all your devices though so if you use both a Windows Phone and an Android it'll remember everything.
It'll be coming to Android at some point toward the end of June whilst those with iPhones are only being told it's launching later this year.
Microsoft also shared a Phone Companion Windows 10 app to help sync your iOS, Android and Windows Phone to your PC.
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms?alias=Microsoft,IOS,android
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.
Subscribe to Tech Newsletter
Get updates on the latest tech news, hottest gadgets, analysis and reviews
ALSO ON TOI
Search for News
Be the first one to review.
We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message
Connect with us
Login
It seems you are already registered with us. Please enter your account details below:
User Name:
Across Times of India
Trending Topics
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Submit button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Out of context/Spam
Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.

