Comment
»  RELATED CONTENT
The two silver medallions that adorned the sides of Abraham Lincoln's Springfield hearse are together again and are displayed along with more than 40 other artifacts at a new Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum exhibit.
The exhibit, "A Fiendish Assassination," opened Thursday and will run through early July in the Treasures Gallery at the museum. Admission to the new exhibit is included in museum admission.
"This has been about six months in the planning stage, and we've had a couple of working titles," said James Cornelius, curator of the Lincoln Collection at the library and museum. The chosen title came from a handwritten resolution from an unknown town angrily condemning Lincoln's assassination. That document is on display in the exhibit.
The existence of either of the medallions, engraved with the city, date and "In Memoriam A.L.," was unknown until a few months ago.
Both had been thought destroyed, along with the hearse, in a fire at a St. Louis livery in 1887.
One was found in the collection of the Mercantile Library at the University of Missouri-St. Louis by a historian from the presidential library and museum.
That led Cornelius to search for what might have happened to the second one. He found mention that it was offered years ago to a private collector.
Cornelius located the seller, who led him to the private Harlan Crow Library in Dallas. Both libraries agreed to loan the medallions to the presidential library.
"Until a few months ago, only a handful of people in the entire world knew these historic medallions still existed," Cornelius said. "Tracking them down and reuniting them for the public to see is incredibly exciting, especially when the nation is commemorating the 150th anniversary of President Lincoln's death."
More than medallions
The exhibit, with some never-before-displayed items, is much more than just the medallions, however.
"The choosing of the items to include was much harder than I thought it would be," Cornelius said. "Several were donated, and many were by women who got them from their fathers or grandfathers. It shows that people held on to these mementos for 50, 100 and sometimes 130 years."
Other items come from the Taper Collection purchased by the library and museum in 2007. Those include a bloodstained fan of ivory, silk and ostrich feathers carried by Mary Lincoln the night of April 14, 1865, at Ford's Theatre. The blood likely is from Maj. Henry Rathbone, who was stabbed after the president was shot.
Other highlights of the exhibit include:
* The only surviving photograph of Lincoln in his coffin, taken illegally in New York and confiscated by Secretary of War Edwin Stanton. It wasn't found until 1952.
* Part of a towel stained with Lincoln's blood.
* Robert Lincoln's urgent telegrams asking key advisers, friends and family to rush to Washington.
Page 2 of 2 - * A small American flag with stars spelling out "free" that adorned a sandwich cart at Lincoln's funeral.
* A swan feather from St. James Park, a royal preserve in London, sent to the Lincoln Tomb by Queen Victoria.
* A basket and remains of flowers placed at the dedication of the Lincoln Tomb in 1874 by Gen. William T. Sherman.
* A handle from one of Lincoln's caskets, found in 1900 by a worker at Lincoln's final burial.
Connecting with Lincoln
Carla Smith, the museum's registrar who helps with exhibit design, said the items are group thematically and "according to place or topic specific to each case."
"We added black borders on the labels and have given each case a title header for the first time," she said.
Cornelius said the different themes include: Mary Lincoln, Robert Lincoln, Washington, Springfield and other cities.
"One case has items from Tennessee, Pennsylvania, Connecticut and Washington," he said. Included in that grouping is a letter to John T. Ford, owner of Ford's Theatre, who was imprisoned for a time, along with his two brothers, following the assassination.
"A Fiendish Assassination" complements the museum's ongoing "Undying Words" exhibition, which examines Lincoln's greatest speeches but also features more than a dozen other items related to his murder, including his deathbed and artifacts linked to assassin John Wilkes Booth.
Cornelius said some of the library and museum's assassination and funeral-related artifacts currently are out on loan.
"Ford's Theatre has a small show that includes Lincoln's carriage," he said. "We own one of two cufflinks that were on Lincoln's shirt that night. The other is at the Library of Congress, and they are reunited now for the Ford's Theatre show."
Eileen Mackevich, executive director of the presidential library and museum, said the new exhibit "is a wonderful example of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum's mission: to do serious research on Lincoln and then share those findings with the public."
"These medallions, and the entire exhibition, will help our visitors connect with the nation's greatest president," Mackevich said.
— Contact Chris Dettro: chris.dettro@sj-r.com, 788-1510, twitter.com/ChrisDettro .
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
The State Journal-Register | Springfield, IL 62701

