Sweet politics
In an interview with The New York Times Magazine, Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) addressed his open letter to Iran, but also the truly serious stuff, like why he runs nearly every morning.
"I do it so I can indulge in the guilty pleasure of eating birthday cake," Cotton told the magazine. "(I eat cake) most days, with ice cream. Early on, when my wife and I were dating, we went to the grocery store, and I told her that sometimes I just buy birthday cakes, and I eat them. And she said: 'Really? I do, too.' She went to the grocery store yesterday and picked up a white birthday cake."
Why Cotton is not leading every single interview with such a relatable gem, I do not know. But as a fellow fan of store-bought, sugary confections, he has my support on this point.
Nearly two years after the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings, a government report on Friday critiqued the city's immediate response to the attack and subsequent manhunt of the suspects.
While the report praised Boston's overall response as a "great success," it was less complimentary of the law enforcement officials who tracked alleged bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to a boat several days later, Time notes .
"Weapons discipline was lacking," the report said, when police officers opened fire on the boat after hearing a gunshot, which they attributed to Tsarnaev but which actually came from a fellow police officer. And, a lack of coordination between city agencies "created confusion at times," in the hours and then days after the attack, the report added.
Check out The Washington Post  for a breakdown of the report's other sections.
After ostensibly abandoning a plan last spring to develop a national license plate tracking system, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has quietly resumed a modified version of the project.
DHS is now contacting companies that already track license plates for local, state, and federal law enforcement departments. Though the agency insists it has no intention of building a national tracking database, its plan is to gain access to all the smaller databases and thus have — basically — a national database.
As with last year's proposal, civil libertarians have begun to sound the alarm. Gregory T. Nojeim of the Center for Democracy & Technology explains that, "If this goes forward, DHS will have warrantless access to location information going back at least five years about virtually every adult driver in the U.S., and sometimes to their image as well."
Privacy for thee, but not for me? Just as the FBI pushes Congress to ban smartphone encryption, which protects users' privacy, the Pentagon has begun giving employees phones with airtight encryption technology.
The phones in question — which would also keep out the prying eyes of the NSA — employ an encryption method that prevents even their manufacturer, Silent Circle, from accessing users' data.
In an interview with Vice, Silent Circle cofounder Mike Janke highlighted the hypocrisy of providing government employees with the very technology another part of the government wants to ban for the rest of us, saying, "[Pentagon workers] need it, why can’t the public need it? Why shouldn’t we be allowed to have it?"
 
Before Furious 7 ever hit theaters, moviegoers knew they were in for at least one high-flying scene, thanks to the film's trailer. In it, we see the franchise's regulars strapped into their cars, but with a new twist: The cars are preparing to parachute out of an airplane.
We took actual cars in an actual plane and we flew up into the sky and we threw a bunch of vehicles out of the back of a plane. We had skydivers chasing after these cars and basically trying to get the shots for us. We used visual effects to help us in moments that were too dangerous for the skydiving cameramen to get.
Apologies to the car enthusiasts out there who are cringing at the thought of intentionally smashing that many cars (but a suggestion: Don't go see these movies if you can't handle what amounts to two hours of demolition derby).
You can read the rest of Wan's interview via The New York Times, and watch the trailer for Furious 7, featuring part of the plane scene, below. —Sarah Eberspacher

