Sign Up
State department official visits Seattle, defends TPP just days after City Council unanimously opposed it
Apr 2, 2015, 2:34pm PDT Updated: Apr 2, 2015, 2:59pm PDT
Thank you for sharing. Your email has been sent.
Email address of friend (insert comma between multiple addresses):
Your email address:
Apart from the trade provisions, the Trans Pacific Partnership is a "robust" global environmental pact, contends Daniel Russel, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs at the U.S. State Department
The pending Trans Pacific Partnership offers a unique chance to pressure Asian governments to improve their environmental, labor and transparency standards, and the trade agreement will also help Washington state companies export.
That’s the angle pushed by Daniel Russel , assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs at the U.S. State Department, who visited Seattle Thursday. Russel is the latest top U.S. official to visit the area and campaign for the trade agreement .
Years of negotiations over the Trans Pacific Partnership, also called the TPP, are nearing their end and Congress is preparing to consider it . While the primary purpose of the pact is to remove tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade around the Pacific Rim, it has become a vehicle for many other issues.
See Also
“The administration has leveraged the benefits that this trade agreement offers in terms of enhanced access to the U.S. market, and Canadian and Japanese markets, as an incentive to build in the standards that we consider to be important in terms of improved environmental practices, improved labor practices, and promotion of small business,” Russel said.
This is because the desire of many countries to increase trade with the U.S. and Canada puts those countries in a position where they’re willing to accept some compromises in issues such as wildlife protection, fishery regulations and labor standards, as part of getting open market access, he said. In addition, the trade pact offers some enforcement tools in in the form of sanctions if those countries don’t comply.
“If there were no trade provisions at all in TPP, it would still be the most stringent and robust environmental agreement the U.S. has ever entered into,” he said.
Page 1
Comments
If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
Inside Puget Sound Business Journal
For Bellevue, Expedia's exit 'just a blip on the radar screen.' http://t.co/baCAlSm4h6 http://t.co/79bo5YrpqE
.@ Expedia move to @ Amgen campus underscores need for biotech lab space in Seattle. http://t.co/10FxeQSyYr http://t.co/Oz6jeXvahI

