Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
6:27PM Wednesday May 27, 2015
16392(0) online now
contact us
Search smh:
Search in:
Date
Photo: AFP
Washington: US researchers believe they may have pinpointed the Achilles heel of the Ebola virus, which could hold the key to developing an effective preventative vaccine.
Research published on Sunday in the latest issue of mBio, the online journal of the American Society for Microbiology, said scientists believed a protein called Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) was critical for Ebola to infect a host.
"Our study reveals NPC1 to be an Achilles heel for Ebola virus infection," said co-study leader Kartik Chandran, associate professor of microbiology and immunology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University.
Nurses wear personal protective equipment while treating ebola patients at a treatment centre run by the Red Cross.
Photo: AFP
There are currently no federally approved treatments for Ebola , and all of the therapies in development are designed to attack the virus.
Advertisement
Targeting NPC1 is the first host-based therapeutic approach to combat the disease, which claimed thousands of lives during a devastating outbreak in West Africa last year, the worst in history.
Previous in vitro studies had shown that Ebola enters host cells by binding directly to NPC1 and that blocking the virus's ability to latch on to the protein prevented infection.
Bruce Aylward, assistant director-general for emergencies at the World Health Organisation shows a graph during a news conference on Ebola in Switzerland on Tuesday.
Photo: Denis Balibouse
To see whether this process was repeated in living organisms, investigators exposed three different kinds of mice to the disease - normal mice, mice genetically engineered to be completely deficient in NPC1, and mice engineered to have both a normal and a mutant NPC1 level.
While normal mice died from Ebola infection after nine days, mice deficient in NPC1 were completely free of the virus.
"Mice lacking both copies of the NPC1 gene, and therefore devoid of the NPC1 protein, were completely resistant to infection," Chandran said.
"NPC1 is absolutely essential for in vivo pathogenesis, and if you can disrupt this, there are no signs of Ebola virus replication or pathogenesis," added Andrew Herbert, senior research scientist in the Viral Immunology Branch at the US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases in Maryland.
AFP
Three gored in Peruvian bull run
RAW VISION: Three people have been hospitalized in the Peruvian town of Huancavelica after being gored during the annual Fiesta de las Cruces bull run.
PT0M58S 300 169 Tue May 26 21:21:18 UTC 2015


Published on May 27, 2015 at 2:19 AM · No Comments
A new study has demonstrated that a protein called Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) is critical for the Ebola virus to infect a host. The study, published in the May/June issue of mBio, the online open-access journal of the American Society for Microbiology, suggests that drugs that block NPC1 could be used to treat this deadly disease.
"The science behind the concept of blocking the interaction between NPC1 and the virus is solid. Now, it is just a matter of powering through and identifying drugs that can inhibit NPC1 and moving them forward," said John Dye, Jr., PhD, co-principal investigator of the study and Viral Immunology Branch Chief, US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID), Frederick, Maryland.
Currently, there are no FDA approved treatments for Ebola, and all of the therapies in the drug pipeline focus on attacking the virus. Targeting NPC1 is the first host-based therapeutic approach.
"Our work also illustrates the value of studying rare diseases like Niemann-Pick type C, which occurs in individuals who lack the NPC1 protein. That research has provided a body of knowledge that scientists could immediately apply to Ebola once it became known that Ebola exploits NPC1 for infection," said Steven Walkley, DVM, PhD, director of the Rose F. Kennedy Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities Research Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York City. Kartik Chandran, PhD, associate professor of microbiology & immunology at Einstein, was also co-principal investigator of the study. Drs. Chandran and Dye were members of the team that originally identified NPC1 as the Ebola receptor.
Previous in vitro studies have demonstrated that Ebola enters host cells by binding directly to NPC1, and that blocking the ability of the virus to engage NPC1 prevents Ebola infection
To test whether this was also true in vivo, investigators exposed three types of mice to Ebola: wild-type mice (normal mice), mice that were genetically engineered to be completely deficient in NPC1 (NPC1-/-), and mice engineered to have both a normal and a mutant NPC1 allele (NPC+/-).
Related Stories
While wild-type mice had high viral loads and died from Ebola infection by day nine, mice that were 100% deficient in NPC1 were completely free of the virus. "NPC1 is absolutely essential for in vivo pathogenesis, and if you can disrupt this, there are no signs of Ebola virus replication or pathogenesis," said Andrew Herbert, PhD, senior research scientist in the Viral Immunology Branch at USAMRIID.
NPC1+/- mice initially developed high levels of Ebola viremia, but these levels quickly decreased as the host immune response effectively cleared the virus. "The underlying story of an Ebola infection is that your immune system and the virus are in a race. If you can do anything to control the amount of virus that is in the system, keep it below a certain threshold, your immune system in many cases will win that race," said Dr. Dye.
The researchers also tested the efficacy of three NPC1 inhibitors in mice exposed to Ebola. Only two of the drugs provided minimal protection, but the researchers are not discouraged because it is unclear exactly how these inhibitors work. "We were not able to achieve great protection, but if we can disrupt NPC1 function more directly or more efficiently, targeting NPC1 should be a viable option for developing therapeutics against Ebola and other filoviruses," said Dr. Herbert.
Five filoviruses, including Ebola and Marburg viruses, are currently associated with severe disease in humans, "Every filovirus that we have evaluated so far requires NPC1, so if this works, we will have potentially found a silver bullet against all filoviruses," said Dr. Dye.
Source:
Comments
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of News-Medical.Net.
Owned and Operated by AZoM.com Limited Copyright 2000-2015
News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance                                             with these terms and conditions .                                             Please note that medical information found                                             on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship                                             between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more here .
You might also like... ×

