Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
6:27PM Wednesday May 27, 2015
16392(0) online now
contact us
Search smh:
Search in:
Date
Photo: AFP
Washington: US researchers believe they may have pinpointed the Achilles heel of the Ebola virus, which could hold the key to developing an effective preventative vaccine.
Research published on Sunday in the latest issue of mBio, the online journal of the American Society for Microbiology, said scientists believed a protein called Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) was critical for Ebola to infect a host.
"Our study reveals NPC1 to be an Achilles heel for Ebola virus infection," said co-study leader Kartik Chandran, associate professor of microbiology and immunology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University.
Nurses wear personal protective equipment while treating ebola patients at a treatment centre run by the Red Cross.
Photo: AFP
There are currently no federally approved treatments for Ebola , and all of the therapies in development are designed to attack the virus.
Advertisement
Targeting NPC1 is the first host-based therapeutic approach to combat the disease, which claimed thousands of lives during a devastating outbreak in West Africa last year, the worst in history.
Previous in vitro studies had shown that Ebola enters host cells by binding directly to NPC1 and that blocking the virus's ability to latch on to the protein prevented infection.
Bruce Aylward, assistant director-general for emergencies at the World Health Organisation shows a graph during a news conference on Ebola in Switzerland on Tuesday.
Photo: Denis Balibouse
To see whether this process was repeated in living organisms, investigators exposed three different kinds of mice to the disease - normal mice, mice genetically engineered to be completely deficient in NPC1, and mice engineered to have both a normal and a mutant NPC1 level.
While normal mice died from Ebola infection after nine days, mice deficient in NPC1 were completely free of the virus.
"Mice lacking both copies of the NPC1 gene, and therefore devoid of the NPC1 protein, were completely resistant to infection," Chandran said.
"NPC1 is absolutely essential for in vivo pathogenesis, and if you can disrupt this, there are no signs of Ebola virus replication or pathogenesis," added Andrew Herbert, senior research scientist in the Viral Immunology Branch at the US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases in Maryland.
AFP
Three gored in Peruvian bull run
RAW VISION: Three people have been hospitalized in the Peruvian town of Huancavelica after being gored during the annual Fiesta de las Cruces bull run.
PT0M58S 300 169 Tue May 26 21:21:18 UTC 2015


ANI  | 
Washington
An international team including scientists from Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) has identified the molecular "lock" that the deadly Ebola virus must pick to gain entry to cells.
The findings suggest that drugs blocking entry to this lock could protect against Ebola infection.
The researchers found that the Ebola virus can't infect cells unless it first attaches to a host protein called Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) in membrane compartments called lysosomes deep within cells.
Associate professor and co-study leader Kartik Chandran, Ph.D., said that the mice study reveals NPC1 to be an Achilles' heel for Ebola virus infection. Mice lacking both copies of the NPC1 gene, and therefore devoid of the NPC1 protein, were completely resistant to infection.
The current animal study was aimed at confirming whether NPC1 is essential for Ebola infectivity. The researchers challenged both "wild type" mice (which have two intact copies of the NPC1 gene) and "knockout mice" (lacking both copies of the gene) with Ebola virus. While the wild type mice succumbed to the infection, the knockout mice were entirely free of virus replication and completely protected against the disease, said Dr. Walkley.
Senior research scientist Dr. Andrew S. Herbert, PhD, at USAMRIID, and co-first author of the study, said that even though such a treatment in humans would also block the cholesterol transport pathway, they think patients would be able to tolerate the treatment, which would be needed for only a short time.
Dr. Chandran said future research in humans, based on these findings, will lead to the development of antiviral drugs that can effectively target NPC1 and prevent infection not just by Ebola, but also by other highly virulent filoviruses, which also require NPC1 as a receptor.
The study is published in online journal mBio.
Read more on:   
Discovery of Ebola virus' 'Achilles heel' may yield better cure
Scientists have found the "Achilles heel" of Ebola virus, which may now help them to find a better way to protect against the virus.An international team including scientists from Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) has identified the molecular "lock" that the deadly Ebola virus must pick to gain entry to cells.The findings suggest that drugs blocking entry to this lock could protect against Ebola infection.The researchers found that the Ebola virus can't infect cells unless it first attaches to a host protein called Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) in membrane compartments called lysosomes deep within cells.Associate professor and co-study leader Kartik Chandran, Ph.D., said that the mice study reveals NPC1 to be an Achilles' heel for Ebola virus infection. Mice lacking both copies of the NPC1 gene, and therefore devoid of the NPC1 protein, were completely resistant to infection.The current ...
Scientists have found the "Achilles heel" of Ebola virus, which may now help them to find a better way to protect against the virus.
An international team including scientists from Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) has identified the molecular "lock" that the deadly Ebola virus must pick to gain entry to cells.
The findings suggest that drugs blocking entry to this lock could protect against Ebola infection.
The researchers found that the Ebola virus can't infect cells unless it first attaches to a host protein called Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) in membrane compartments called lysosomes deep within cells.
Associate professor and co-study leader Kartik Chandran, Ph.D., said that the mice study reveals NPC1 to be an Achilles' heel for Ebola virus infection. Mice lacking both copies of the NPC1 gene, and therefore devoid of the NPC1 protein, were completely resistant to infection.
The current animal study was aimed at confirming whether NPC1 is essential for Ebola infectivity. The researchers challenged both "wild type" mice (which have two intact copies of the NPC1 gene) and "knockout mice" (lacking both copies of the gene) with Ebola virus. While the wild type mice succumbed to the infection, the knockout mice were entirely free of virus replication and completely protected against the disease, said Dr. Walkley.
Senior research scientist Dr. Andrew S. Herbert, PhD, at USAMRIID, and co-first author of the study, said that even though such a treatment in humans would also block the cholesterol transport pathway, they think patients would be able to tolerate the treatment, which would be needed for only a short time.
Dr. Chandran said future research in humans, based on these findings, will lead to the development of antiviral drugs that can effectively target NPC1 and prevent infection not just by Ebola, but also by other highly virulent filoviruses, which also require NPC1 as a receptor.
The study is published in online journal mBio.
http://mybs.in/2RvVNNm
Browse Mutual Funds
Browse Companies
Index Stocks

