State House Sound Bites
Capitol reporter Mary Wilson covers Pennsylvania politics and issues at the Pennsylvania state capitol.
Dems beat drum to extend anti-discrimination protections
Comments : 0
The national debate over Indiana's religious freedom law is touching down in Pennsylvania, with Democrats - including the governor - calling for anti-discrimination legislation to protect gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender Pennsylvanians.
For the past few years, bills to bar discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity have gone nowhere, despite bipartisan backing.
Governor Tom Wolf has reiterated his support in a recent campaign fundraising e-mail and to reporters this week.
"We were founded by William Penn on the basis of religious freedom, freedom of consciousness, of openness," said Wolf. "The ship he came to Pennsylvania in was the Welcome, and I think I've been committed to doing what I can to support that sense of welcome for Pennsylvania."
Many business groups have echoed Wolf (though perhaps not to the same degree of detail). But the Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry is also cautioning lawmakers not to leave the private sector vulnerable to unnecessary lawsuits from people claiming mistreatment.
"We don't want someone who, to be honest, wasn't the most qualified candidate trying to say, 'Well, I didn't get the job because I was gay,'" said Gene Barr, president of the statewide chamber.
There's no bill before the Legislature right now - but supporters have said whatever they introduce will be identical to measures floated in the past.
Democratic lawmakers sent Wolf an open letter this week asking him to ramp up his efforts to pass the as-yet-nonexistent proposal.
"Finding a path to passage is no small thing," said Steve Hoenstine, an aide to Sen. Daylin Leach (D-Montgomery), among the letter's signatories. "There's a lot of work to do on that front, and it can be done now."
News menu
Discover witf.org
4801 Lindle Rd Harrisburg, PA 17111 (717) 704-3000 or (800) 366-9483 customerservice@witf.org

