He's just not sure whether it's intentional or not.
In response to the controversial deal underway between the U.S. and Iran over the latter’s nuclear pursuit, former Vice President Dick Cheney concluded  that – intentionally or not – Barack Obama is working to weaken and destroy America.
He appeared on radio host Hugh Hewitt’s program Tuesday and declared that he is uncertain whether Obama is naïve or intentionally pursuing a larger ideological goal in the Middle East.
“I vacillate between the various theories I’ve heard,” Cheney admitted. “But you know, if you had somebody as president who wanted to take America down, who wanted to fundamentally weaken our position in the world and reduce our capacity to influence events, turn our back on our allies, and encourage our adversaries, it would look exactly like what Barack Obama is doing.”
Advertisement-content continues below
After asserting his policies qualify him as “the worst president we’ve ever had,” Cheney reacted to Obama’s recent public criticism of potential GOP presidential candidate Scott Walker.
The Republican governor of Wisconsin has been critical of the Iran deal, prompting Obama to suggest he needs “some time to bone up” on foreign policy issues.
Cheney cited the common complaint among opponents of the deal, which is that Obama is pursuing a unilateral agreement in contradiction to the attitude of his predecessors.
Advertisement-content continues below
“For most of the last 70 years since World War II,” he said, “we’ve had a bipartisan accord in this country between Democrat and Republican … [who] believed that America had to play a leading role in the world, that we needed to maintain a first class military capability to do that, and occasionally use it, that the world works best with U.S. leadership. The first president, really, who doesn’t, no longer believes that fundamental truth, is Barack Obama.”
Recent reports  indicate Cheney’s forthcoming book, Exceptional: Why the World Needs a Powerful America, will feature more extensive criticism of the Obama administration.
Share this article on Facebook if you are looking forward to the end of Obama’s presidency.
Don't Miss Out. Subscribe By Email Or Facebook
Email
Email*
Facebook
Comments
comments
About the Author B. Christopher Agee
An award-winning journalist, B. Christopher Agee spent more than a decade building a career in newspaper and radio. He is currently the managing editor at Western Journalism. Chris is the author of two books and has appeared on talk radio shows across the U.S. He lives with his wife, Nancy, and son, Caleb, in Phoenix, Ariz.
Email
Email*
Facebook
Trending
Watch

