Dems: U.S. senator in trouble; GOP: ex-Ohio governor’s record
BY TOM TROY
BLADE POLITICS WRITER
Sen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio is shown speaking on Capitol Hill in Washington in May, 2014. Portman is trailing former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland in a Quinnipiac University poll released Monday as he seeks re-election.
Despite having been in the Senate for more than four years, Ohio U.S. Sen. Rob Portman (R.) has his work cut out to win re-election against Democratic former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland in 2016, according to a Quinnipiac University poll released Monday.
The poll showed Mr. Portman trailing Mr. Strickland 48 percent to 39 percent if the election were held today, with 13 percent undecided or planning not to vote.
Ohio Democratic Party spokesman Meredith Tucker said the poll shows that “Rob Portman is in deep trouble in Ohio, and that’s why he is raising and spending gobs of money on cynical attacks.
“As a Washington insider for decades, Portman’s priorities are with his special interest friends, not his Ohio constituents, which is why he is so unknown back at home,” Ms. Tucker said.
She said his record includes opposing the auto industry rescue, supporting NAFTA, and “exploding the deficit” during President George W. Bush’s administration, when he served as the director of the Office of Management and Budget.
Former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland, shown speaking in Charlotte, N.C. in September, 2012, leads in a Quinnipiac University poll released Monday over Sen. Rob Portman as Portman seeks re-election.
A spokesman for Mr. Portman said the poll shows that voters “forgot what an awful governor [Mr. Strickland] was.
“Our campaign will have the resources to remind every voter about Strickland’s term in office when over 350,000 jobs disappeared, Ohio lagged behind 47 other states in job creation and he raised taxes by $800 million. Rob Portman’s fight to expand opportunity for Ohio workers is gaining strength every day,” said campaign spokesman Corry Bliss.
The incumbent Republican is stronger against the other Democrat competing for the party’s nomination in the 2016 race, Cincinnati City Councilman P.G. Sittenfeld. In that match-up, Mr. Portman would win by 47 to 24 percent.
Mr. Portman’s campaign announced last week he has already banked $8 million for the race, about half what he raised and spent in the 2010 campaign. Mr. Strickland has not announced his fund-raising so far. Mr. Sittenfeld’s campaign announced he has raised more than $750,000. Reports on first-quarter campaign financing are due to the Federal Elections Commission by April 15.
Voters say they approve of the job Mr. Portman is doing by 49 to 23 percent, and give him a 38 to 18-percent favorability rating, the poll reported. Mr. Strickland received a 49 to 29-percent favorability rating, while 89 percent of voters haven’t heard enough about Mr. Sittenfeld.
According to the poll, 44 percent of voters said they did not know enough about Mr. Portman to have an opinion of him. Mr. Strickland, who was governor 2007 through 2011, is better known, with 77 percent having an opinion.
Democratic Ohio U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown received an approval rating of 52 to 27 percent. Ohio Gov. John Kasich got a 61 to 28-percent job approval rating.
Quinnipiac surveyed 1,077 Ohio voters in mid-to-late March. The poll’s margin of error is plus or minus 3 percent.
Contact Tom Troy:  tomtroy@theblade.com  or 419-724-6058 or on Twitter @TomFTroy .
Recommended for You
Guidelines: Please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent. If a comment violates these standards or our privacy statement or visitor's agreement , click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report abuse. To post comments, you must be a Facebook member. To find out more, please visit the FAQ .
Your e-mail:
Your Name:
Friends e-mail:
Friends Name:
Copyright 2015 The Blade. All rights reserved. This material may not be copied or distributed without permission.
Copyright 2015 The Blade. By using this service, you accept the terms of our privacy statement and our visitor agreement . Please read them.
The Toledo Blade Company, 541 N. Superior St.,     Toledo, OH 43660, (419) 724-6000
To contact a specific department or an individual person, click here .
The Toledo Times ®

