Your email will not be displayed publicly
Benefit of signing in/signing up to personalize comment
Comment as a guest
Benefit of signing in/signing up to personalize comment
Login
or connect using
Pentagon Spokesman Colonel Steve Warren speaks to reporters. AFP photo.
WASHINGTON DC – The Pentagon on Tuesday expressed displeasure at the codename chosen by Iraqi Shiite militias for the military campaign to retake the Sunni heartland city of Ramadi and Anbar province on Tuesday.
Hadi Amiri, commander of the Iranian-backed Popular Mobilization Force (PMF), declared the campaign in Anbar under the name “Labayk Ya Hussein,” a reference to an important Shiite saint that is likely to stir up sensitivities among Sunnis fighting alongside.
 “I think it’s unhelpful,” said Pentagon Spokesman Colonel Steve Warren in his daily media briefing, about the operation’s codename. He added that victory cannot be achieved unless Iraq “separates itself from sectarian divides” and “coalesces around this common threat.”
The Ramadi campaign began Tuesday amid a blame game among Iraq, Iran and the United States. Over the weekend, US Defense Secretary Ash Carter blamed the Iraqi forces’ “lack of will to fight” against the Islamic State (ISIS) for the fall of Ramadi last week.
Iraqi officials claim that the US-led coalition did not use enough air power to stop the jihadists, while Iran accused Washington of orchestrating what happened in Ramadi, capital of Iraq’s largest Anbar province.
The Pentagon spokesman agreed that Iraqi forces largely outnumber ISIS, but “yet they chose to withdraw.”
“Their morale had slipped, their leadership was not up to par. They believed that they were not receiving the support that they thought they needed,” he said.
Meanwhile the US State Department, which has been reiterating President Barack Obama’s commitment to assisting the Iraqi government, refused to comment on the codename.
In his daily briefing, Pentagon spokesman Jeff Rathke avoided questions by journalists in the issue. He insisted that the Iraqi army and PMF, including Sunnis, are taking part in the military operations to retake control of Ramadi.
“It’s our understanding that the Iraqi security forces, along with a mix of the so-called Popular Mobilization Forces, including Sunni fighters, have begun to consolidate and reorganize and counter attack against ISIL around Ramadi,” he said, referring to ISIS by its other name.
“Again, we are encouraged by the Iraqi forces mobilizing at the order of Prime Minister (Haidar) Abadi, and we will continue to support all efforts by Iraqi forces under the command and control of the Iraqi government,” said Rathke.
He admitted that “the fall of Ramadi was a failure,” citing a number of reasons for its fall.
“There were breakdowns in military command, planning and reinforcement. Clearly, our strategy of supporting the Iraqi government requires a well-equipped and well-trained partner on the ground, and we’re helping to provide that support because we share the interest in Iraqi forces winning this fight,” he said.
Post a New Comment
Comment as a guest or Login for more enhanced interactive experience
Post to Facebook
247 Views
Related Stories
More from Yerevan Saeed
Be Part of Your Rudaw!
Share your stories, photos and videos with Rudaw, and quite possibly the world.
Karwan Zaro |                                       5/26/2015 11:20:37 PM
`all national rights of other groups are guaranteed so that they feel protected inside the Kurdistan region´ yes, ofcourse, but not at the cost of...
KurdiSilemani |                                       5/27/2015 12:51:25 AM
This is absolute idiocy from our Kurdish government if Kirkuk is lost to the Arabs and Turkmen. For how many years have Kurds faught and died for the...
Adar |                                       5/27/2015 12:12:23 AM
I believe rudaw working behalf of Iranian and Turkish government and from now on I'm no gonna see rudaw as Kurdish Chanel I'm definitely gonna see as...
Kurd |                                       5/27/2015 12:40:27 AM
Just to correct it for people it's the Turkish government that calls pkk terrorists and it's not true.   Just because pkk is one of the best fighting...
Muraz Adzhoev |                                       5/26/2015 8:27:27 PM
The US would better try to cooperate with "increasingly aggresive" Russia in coordination arrangements for effective political, diplomatic, legal and...
Remo K |                                       5/26/2015 11:58:19 PM
Independent Kurdistan is willing to join NATO as long as you stop resuscitating a fatally wounded wilder beast called Iraq. It is time to pull the...
|  12 hours ago | (2)
kurt |                                       5/26/2015 6:04:22 PM
unelievable that maliki still is a iraqi politican. i think jail is the right place for him.
Rizgar |                                       5/26/2015 11:16:07 PM
Actually the British should be blamed for the chaos in Iraq. They cobbled it up together a century ago artificially. Ever since then the country has...
|  23 hours ago | (4)
1/8/2014 | (45)
0.125 seconds

