Dave Workman
The New York Daily News and l east one on-line writer appear to have revealed their ignorance yesterday about how big trade shows display firearms where thousands of people with varying skill levels will be handling them when the National Rifle Association meets in Nashville starting Friday.
The Daily News reported that “The NRA has banned working guns from its annual convention this year in Nashville, Tenn., according to a report in The Tennessean. Instead the group will require the thousands of firearms displayed at the event to be nonoperational, with their firing pins removed to ensure safety.” That's not the NRA's doing, actually, and at least the blogger noted above has added additional information to his column.
Those familiar with how gun companies display firearms, join together in a big “Well, DUH!” The NRA really didn’t “ban” anything. Instead, the association’s exhibits are following a tradition that applies equally to the much larger Shooting, Hunting and Outdoor Trade (SHOT) Show, and has been the norm at NRA conventions for as long as anyone can remember.
Display firearms are always disabled, and the gun companies do this. As the quote above noted, firing pins are removed from these guns, whether a semi-auto shotgun, bolt-action rifle, pistols from Glock, Smith & Wesson, Kimber or Colt, and even reproduction single-action sixguns from various manufacturers. But this appears to be a clever media attempt to bash the NRA as some sort of hypocritical group that, the Daily News asserted, “wants guns at schools, but not its own annual convention.”
Instead, as Nashville Public Radio reported, the NRA is reminding its members that, “When carrying your firearm, remember to follow all federal, state and local laws.” Legally-carried firearms “are in the clear inside the Music City Center,” the radio report noted. However, across the street, at Bridgestone Arena, firearms are not allowed. The arena will be hosting “big nightly concerts,” the story says.
Bob Owens, over at Bearing Arms.com puts it bluntly this morning, “There’s an old saying that, ‘A lie gets halfway around the world before the truth has a chance to get its pants on.’ Presently, there is a bit of fiction sweeping through the media and left wing blogs pointing out supposed hypocrisy by the National Rifle Association.”
“It would be stunning hypocrisy,” Owens writes, “if the NRA was banning working guns, but it simply isn’t true…” And he twists the knife even harder with this gem: “The (NRA) holds an annual meeting every year in a different host city, and requires that attendees follow the federal, state and local laws applicable in that city, like every major convention of every significant national group, ever.”
In Phoenix a couple of years back, the annual NRA gathering looked like an armed camp. And yet every display firearm in the exhibit hall was incapable of being fired. Those guns couldn’t even shoot blanks, and neither, it appears, can the New York Daily News.
----------------------------------------
Got an opinion about this column? Share your thoughts in the "Comments" section below.
Suggested Links
Related stories
POPULAR in POLITICS
TRENDING on EXAMINER.COM
Choose a Topic

