Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
INDIANAPOLIS — Illinois' Republican governor sees economic opportunity amid Indiana's "religious freedom" woes.
Post to Facebook
Ill. gov: I want to 'rip the economic guts out of Indiana' INDIANAPOLIS — Illinois' Republican governor sees economic opportunity amid Indiana's "religious freedom" woes. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1ybwOun
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
1
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Ill. gov: I want to 'rip the economic guts out of Indiana'
Tony Cook, The Indianapolis Star 3:36 p.m. EDT April 7, 2015
Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner talks March 23, 2015, about economic issues in Decatur, Ill.
(Photo: Jim Bowling, AP)
Gov. Bruce Rauner on Monday told the editorial board of the Chicago Tribune that he plans to poach Hoosier jobs as part of his state turnaround plan.
"Believe me, I am going to rip — try to rip — the economic guts out of Indiana," said Rauner, elected in November.
"I am one of the baddest, you know, enemies anybody can have. And when I set a goal, we do it," he said. "I don't care what the headline is. I want the results. And we're coming after Indiana big time."
Rauner, who took office in January, called Indiana's religious freedom law as a "headline opportunity."
Indiana's governor, in a less combative tone, says bring it on.
"We'll stack Indiana's low taxes, triple-A credit rating and excellent business climate against those of any other state any time," said Christy Denault, communications director for Gov. Mike Pence. "Our corporate taxes are going down, our workforce has been growing and we will continue to aggressively recruit new companies and new jobs to our state.
“I don't care what the headline is. I want the results. And we're coming after Indiana big time.”
Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner
Rauner's tough talk is part of a long-running feud between the two states. In 2011, the Indiana Economic Development Corp. launched a provocative campaign that targeted Chicago-area businesses with billboards asking if they felt "Illinoyed by higher taxes."
Rauner's latest comments are part of a statewide tour he launched Monday to tout his legislative agenda. He and Democrats who control that state's legislature are trying to hash out a new state budget before May 31.
Rauner is calling for major cuts amid a projected deficit of $6 billion, according to the Tribune.
Indiana's budget is on sounder ground, but Pence has come under fire for his support and poor handling of its Religious Freedom Restoration Act that prompted concerns about discrimination against gays and lesbians.
The new law prompted major companies and organizations to consider backing out of conventions and halting new investments.
Pence and lawmakers agreed to a revision of the law last week that prevents it from being used to deny services based on sexual orientation or gender identity. But those protections make a difference only in Indianapolis and other cities that protect gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people with local non-discrimination ordinances.
Still, some have suggested the damage to Indiana's reputation could hurt economic development efforts.
Elected officials in other states also have sought to capitalize on the backlash, including Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel.
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1ybwOun
USA NOW
Apr 07, 2015

