Written by Tanya Campbell on 27 May 2015
Battle ropes are increasingly becoming a new trend in gyms as exercisers want to get engaged in tough workouts and health experts believe that these ropes play a key role in engaging both the body and mind.
Battle ropes have become a new trend in gyms as people wanting to get engaged in tough workouts find them apt for the purpose. The thick and heavy ropes have long been used in sports training for games like football, but is has recently happened that fitness experts are also suggesting gym lovers to give it a try to whipping, slamming, dragging and drumming the long, anchored ropes.
Jonathan Ross, spokesperson for the American Council on Exercise, said that using the ropes gives an exerciser a feeling of running with the upper body. It's not only related to making use of different muscles while exercising, but using different ways to train muscles.
The Washington, D. C. area-based trainer and author of the book 'Abs Revealed' has to say that a ropes workout plays a significant role in engaging both the mind and the body with so-called the grace of the wave.
"The ropes show you how you're moving. You see the physical manifestation of the body movement as you watch the ropes. If you do them well, your body is moving well", he explained.
Findings of a new study, published in the April 2015 Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research, have claimed that getting engaged in a 10-minute bout of rope training increased heart rates and resulted into energy expenditure good enough for cardio respiratory fitness.
Donna Cyrus, senior vice president of programming at Crunch, the national chain of fitness centers, said that it engages the abs, back, and glutes (muscles of the buttocks). The toning of the upper body helps in burning a lot of calories.
Shoulder mobility and stability is required for exercising with battle ropes that come in various diameters and lengths. So, people should be careful while using them.
Similar entries
Crime
Bangor Online
Portland Online
Augusta Online

