May 27, 2015
Minutes from the Bank of Japan's April 30 meeting confirm the bank's board members are taking a calm view of subdued inflation levels, though not everyone is convinced.
By April 2015 the BoJ had hoped to hit a 2 per cent inflation target set two years earlier. Instead, a global collapse in oil prices beginning last summer chipped away at inflation gains each month and brought them back to zero.
At this meeting the BoJ shifted its inflation target to the first half of fiscal 2016 (between April and September of next year), a significant development that has persuaded many economists to delay their expectations of when the BoJ will ease again.
Minutes reveal that some board members think the new target is too optimistic, too: A few "expressed the recognition that the rate of increase would not reach around 2 per cent during the projection period."
There was also some dissent from the prevailing view of a steady recovery: "Some members expressed the view that improvement in private consumption had somewhat lacked momentum," the minutes said.
The majority of members, however, see underlying trends picking up "steadily", the effects of crude oil's decline dissipating, and the output gap improving to "about zero per cent."
No output gap means that Japan's economy is operating at potential. As demand increases it should rise above potential, generating inflation.
With regard to medium- to long-term inflation expectations, members shared the view that these appeared to be rising on the whole from a somewhat longer-term   perspective despite the decline in the observed inflation rate.
They continued that such   developments in inflation expectations were likely to have been influencing actual wage   and price settings, as seen in a base pay increase that was likely to take place for the second   consecutive year.
Meet the team
Fast FT is a global team working across timezones to give you market-moving news and views twenty-four hours a day, five days a week
London
FT and 'Financial Times' are trademarks of The Financial Times Ltd.
Always Learning

