NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Photo
Walt Mossberg, left, and Kara Swisher, center, of ReCode, with Jim Bankoff, chief of Vox Media, before the start of the Code Conference in Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif., on Tuesday. Credit Kendrick Brinson for The New York Times
Advertisement
ReCode, the news website led by the veteran journalists Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher, is being acquired by Vox Media, a deal that reflects the turmoil among digital organizations focused on covering the tech industry.
The all-stock deal, financial terms of which were not disclosed, will give ReCode access to a wider audience, something it has struggled to build since the site split off from The Wall Street Journal about a year and a half ago. Both plan to stay with ReCode after the merger.
Related Coverage
The purchase of ReCode, which was announced by the companies on Tuesday, is just the latest significant move involving a digital media start-up in the past few months. In March, Gigaom, which had been one of the early sites dedicated to coverage of Silicon Valley, abruptly closed after nine years because of financial problems. (It said Tuesday that it planned to restart in August after being acquired by the start-up Knowingly Corp.) Circa, a news aggregation start-up, is trying to sell itself to a larger media organization after failing to raise more venture capital, according to two people familiar with internal matters, though recent talks with companies like Twitter have fizzled. And Pando, another technology blog, has struggled to attract a large following despite a splashy introduction announcing prominent writers.
Before its split from The Journal and its parent company, Dow Jones, ReCode was run as a site called AllThingsD, which, since its founding in 2007, had steadily built a following among technology executives. The site grew out of a popular conference business that became known for hosting tech luminaries like Steve Jobs and Mark Zuckerberg. The conference business continued to grow and was an attractive part of ReCode’s portfolio for Vox.
But as traditional news organizations and upstarts alike descended on Silicon Valley, ReCode found itself somewhat lost in the crowd.
“Everybody is bigger than us,” Ms. Swisher said in a phone interview. “It’s not a secret that being a smaller fish is really hard.”
ReCode said it had 44 full-time employees and three contract employees. They were expected to join Vox, though Vox would not elaborate on potential staffing changes.
Since ReCode began operating independently, companies like BuzzFeed, Vice and Vox have each raked in tens of millions of dollars in venture capital while heavily staffing up on young journalists and aggressive advertising departments.
Despite developing a reputation for consistently breaking industry news, ReCode has struggled to draw significant traffic. The site receives 1.5 million regular monthly visitors, according to comScore.
ReCode will become part of Vox’s expanding digital empire, which includes the popular sports site SB Nation, as well as the technology site The Verge. ReCode also will gain access to Vox’s publishing platform , Chorus, which has been a key in luring marquee journalists including Ezra Klein.
Vox Media attracted 53.2 million unique visitors in the United States across its sites in April, according to comScore. The Verge alone had traffic of nearly 12 million, according to comScore, far greater than ReCode’s audience.
Advertisement
The size of that audience, especially for The Verge, was a particular draw for Ms. Swisher and Mr. Mossberg, who together controlled the majority of ReCode. In return, ReCode — with its access to technology executives and the ability to break major news stories — could lend The Verge more legitimacy. And while both sites cover technology, Nilay Patel, the editor in chief of The Verge, said they had different perspectives.
“The Verge is explicitly not a business publication,” Mr. Patel said. Rather, he added, the site “is about being a new kind of culture publication.” One recent article on the site was titled “How my girlfriend and I tried to fit the Apple Watch into our relationship.” Another headline, however, noted Uber’s raising of $1.6 billion in convertible debt.
ReCode closely covers the business of the technology industry, with frequent articles on financing rounds, earnings reports and executive moves.
The sites’ leaders acknowledged they could find themselves fighting over stories. But Jim Bankoff, the chief executive of Vox Media, stressed that an internal study indicated there was only a 3 percent overlap in content between the two sites.
For Vox, the acquisition of ReCode is part of Mr. Bankoff’s ambitious plan to create a kind of Time Inc. for the digital age, with a portfolio of publications that appeal to a wide swath of viewers. (ReCode’s existing investors — Windsor Media, an investment firm run by the former Yahoo chief executive Terry S. Semel, and the NBCUniversal News Group — will retain small stakes in the combined company.)
In the fall of 2013, Vox Media acquired the Curbed Network, which includes the sites Curbed, Eater and Racked. And in April last year, it started Vox.com , a news site led by Mr. Klein, who previously founded The Washington Post’s popular Wonkblog. Vox Media recently raised $46.5 million in a round of financing from General Atlantic, which valued the company at nearly $400 million.
In April, Vox Media announced it would begin selling its Chorus content management system to advertisers, allowing them to create so-called native content across the company’s sites — and also giving the company a new revenue stream. Mr. Bankoff said ReCode’s conference business would also bolster Vox Media’s bottom line.
“Our growth and momentum has never been higher,” he said.
Loading...


Tech news sites Re/code and Gigaom sold to media startups
Two San Francisco tech news sites announced acquisitions by venture-backed media companies Tuesday.
Respected Silicon Valley news outlet Re/code was acquired by Vox Media Inc. in an all-stock deal. Re/code, which was founded by veteran tech journalists less than two years ago, joins a stable of media brands at Vox, including consumer tech site the Verge, sports hub SB Nation, real estate news outlet Curbed, and national news site Vox.com.
Gigaom, a popular tech news site that shut down in March after it ran out of money, was acquired by Knowingly, an Austin, Texas, startup. Gigaom will be revived in August.
Despite the acquisitions, news sites are not likely to be the next big-ticket exit for investors, said media analyst Ken Doctor of Newsonomics — most are struggling to make digital advertising pay. But Doctor said some venture firms that fund them care more about audience growth than ad revenue. And they expect the companies to be acquired by larger media corporations down the road.
Founded in 2003, Vox Media has raised more than $100 million in venture capital, according to Crunchbase.
Vox aspirations
Last year, Vox CEO Jim Bankoff told Forbes that he wanted his company to be the next generation Condé Nast, the publishing giant that owns the New Yorker, Wired and Vanity Fair.
“We want Vox to be the preeminent modern media publisher,” he said. “We look at what Condé Nast did in magazine publishing, and we can do that in digital publishing, meaning scale and quality and value.”
Re/code, which employs 18 writers, will operate under the same leadership and remain independent, according to a statement by Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher, Re/code’s co-executive editors who previously worked at the Wall Street Journal.
Re/code will now collaborate with the Verge, which had been a competitor. Re/code will continue to hold conferences — key parts of the business model for many tech news outlets.
“No RIP. @recode lives on, as do the Code Conferences. Just within a great new home with lots of added advantages,” Mossberg tweeted Tuesday.
Details about Gigaom’s future are less clear, though its content library will survive, along with its website, after the Knowingly acquisition.
Knowingly will not add content to the site before its Aug. 15 relaunch.
The startup also owns Correctica.com, a website that finds errors on the Web, and iForetold, which allows users to win points for making correct predictions about pop culture and current events.
“We are excited to be a chapter of the Gigaom story and look forward to continuing its mission of ‘humanizing the impact of technology,’” said Knowingly CEO Byron Reese  in a statement. Reese formerly worked at Demand Media, a content farm that pumps out pieces designed to be popular, based on algorithms. Demand Media operates sites including eHow and Cracked.
Residual value
Because of Gigaom’s financial troubles, Knowingly probably got a bargain, said Doctor.
With the site’s audience of 6.5 million unique readers per month, it has a lot of residual value — it could still be a moneymaker, even if it did make a switch to more engineered content, he said.
“There are a lot of people ... who have it bookmarked in various ways and who will still be hitting that page for a long time,” Doctor said.
Gigaom’s former managing editor, Laura Owen, now an editor at Nieman Lab, tweeted Tuesday that the acquisition was news to the site’s former writers, who were let go in March when the company ran out of cash. Re/code estimated that before it shut down, Gigaom had about 70 staff members.
“All operations have ceased. We do not know at this time what the lenders intend to do with the assets or if there will be any future operations using those assets,” Gigaom announced in March, adding it did not intend to file for bankruptcy.
“Gigaom is winding down and its assets are now controlled by the company’s lenders. It is not how you want the story of a company you founded to end,” wrote founder, Om Malik, in a blog post after that announcement. Malik was not immediately available for comment and, on May 26, appeared to be tweeting from a vacation in Iceland.
Gigaom raised $22 million in venture funding between its 2006 founding and 2014. Its business model was also based on industry research and hosting events.
“Their subscriptions didn’t scale enough to pay (on) the event side, and they had some pretty big bills — that’s what I see with a lot of the venture-backed stuff,” Randy Giusto, vice president and lead analyst at Outsell told The Chronicle last week .
As for whether venture capital can sustain news sites, “I think it’s an experiment for venture right now. It is difficult to make money off of advertising,” he said. “It’s really hard to find that inflection point where you become a Buzzfeed.”
Greta Kaul is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail: gkaul@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @gretakaul
Latest Top Business Videos
9

