April 10, 2015
BY TROY SENIK  / Staff Columnist
What a difference a decade makes. In 2005, only the most obsessive political junkies knew the name of Texas Congressman Ron Paul, a somewhat eccentric figure who had been the Libertarian Party’s presidential nominee in 1988.
His son Rand was even more obscure, known mainly to the clients of his ophthalmology practice in Bowling Green, Ky.
On Tuesday, that small-town eye doctor stood on a stage in Louisville and declared to the world that he intends to become the 45th president of the United States.
You can’t fully grasp Rand’s rise to prominence unless you understand how dramatically the Republican Party has changed in the intervening decade. In 2005, George W. Bush, fresh off re-election, was seeing the last positive poll numbers of his presidency (he hit 50 percent approval in the Gallup poll for the final time in May 2005) and writers like The Weekly Standard’s Fred Barnes were touting the president’s penchant for “big government conservatism.” Under this theory, it was no big deal to increase federal spending or add a costly new entitlement, like the Medicare prescription drug benefit, as long as those liberal means were being directed toward conservative ends.
Then the bottom fell out. While the broader public’s second-term distaste for Bush owed largely to the pre-surge sense of aimlessness in Iraq, the gut-wrenching images that accompanied Hurricane Katrina and the economic meltdown that occurred in the dying days of his administration, conservatives focused in on an entirely different critique: He never cared about limiting the size, scope or influence of government. Bush couldn’t be an example of conservatism’s failures, they told themselves, because he was never a conservative in the first place.
It was in that environment that the elder Paul first rose to sustained national prominence, launching a 2008 Republican presidential campaign that initially felt quixotic. With the likes of Rudy Giuliani, Fred Thompson and Mitt Romney jockeying for the nomination, who really cared about the starkly libertarian views of a doddering seventy-something obstetrician from Texas?
An awful lot of people, it turned out.
Despite the fact that he inspired more intense support than anyone in the field, Paul was never a serious threat to garner the nomination – his support was deep, but not especially wide. That said, his supporters’ intense conviction that America had become unmoored from its constitutional first principles presaged an intellectual ferment that would shortly blossom into the Tea Party. When that movement first made itself felt in the 2010 midterm elections, one of the beneficiaries was the newest senator from Kentucky: a Bowling Green ophthalmologist with no previous political experience: Rand Paul.
One of the reasons that the younger Paul is so formidable is that he’s sanded down his father’s rough libertarian edges. Whereas Ron wants to abolish the Federal Reserve, Rand simply wants to audit it. Whearas Ron once declared in a presidential debate that he’d be fine with legalizing heroin, Rand has instead limited himself to efforts to rein in the excesses of the “war on drugs.” Whereas Ron is opposed to virtually every exertion of American power overseas, Rand simply advocates for defining America’s international interests more narrowly.
It’s a delicate balancing act. Rand Paul hopes to stay libertarian enough to cultivate the same enthusiasm that attended his father’s presidential efforts. At the same time, however, he has to remain palatable to a much broader swath of conservatives and swing voters – individuals who will determine whether he obtains the Republican nomination and a victory in the Electoral College, respectively, but who may not share his ideological first principles. This is a tightrope.
Can it work? Paul’s sympathists have been declaring for several years that we’re in the midst of a unique libertarian moment in American politics. His candidacy will put that theory to the test. If he wins, the changes to come in the Republican Party may make those of the past decade pale in comparison.
WRITE A LETTER TO THE EDITOR Letters to the Editor: E-mail to letters@ocregister.com .  Please provide your name, city and telephone number (telephone numbers will not be published).  Letters of about 200 words or videos of 30-seconds each will be given preference. Letters will be edited for length, grammar and clarity.
Most popular
Comments are encouraged, but you must follow our User Agreement
Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial     slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about     tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to     allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to     republish your name and comment in additional Register publications     without any notification or payment.
Business Directory

