A
A
A
There was a shooting outside the Capitol Building, police said.
The area around the U.S. Capitol building was vacant in the moments after the lockdown was lifted.
Carolyn Kaster/AP
Members of law enforcement and emergency services gather and a parameter is created with police tape around the north front of the U.S. Capitol as it was on lockdown.
AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana
A bomb squad member searches the area at the U.S. Capitol.
Previous Next
The unidentified man shot himself and was "neutralized," Lt. Kimberly Schneider said in an email to reporters.
The shooter was protesting outside the building with a sign taped to his hand,  ABC News  reported.
He wore a backpack and had a suitcase nearby, which a bomb squad is investigating.
Authorities lifted the lockdown around 3:40 p.m., according to officials.
Just ran from the capital building after a protester shot himself right next to us.. ðŸ˜”
Bridget Maley told the Daily News she and a friend were on a tour of the Capitol when the lockdown began at about 1:20 p.m.
The atmosphere was surprisingly "calm" and her tour continued on as usual, she said. Her guide said the situation "wasn't exactly unusual."
"I knew I was in the safest place I could be during an emergency like this," the 22-year-old University of Maryland student said.
Maley said hundreds of people waited near the gift shops and inside the restaurant. 
So I was actually taking a tour in the Capitol while it happened. And we got on lockdown. Crazy to be in the middle of a news story
They were escorted out through an underground passageway to the Library of Congress and were told to walk on the sidewalk opposite the Capitol, Maley said. 
"There are no indications at this point of terrorism," a federal official told NBC News.
The official said only one shot was fired.
Officials said he was not carrying any form of identification.
"Another reminder of the dangers US Capitol Police face. I thank them," Rep. Steve Israel said on Twitter.
Lawmakers have been on spring break for two weeks and are expected back at work Monday.
The area was likely filled with tourists who flocked to D.C. for the annual cherry blossom festival, which kicked off with a parade Saturday.
This story is breaking. Check back for updates.
Editors' Picks
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserve
