Photo by: 
Nancy Lane
Patriots owner Robert Kraft talks with former player Willie McGinest as the The New England Patriots walk off the plane as they arrive at Sky Harbor Airport for Super Bowl XLIX, January 26, 2015.
1
Consider it a distraction from the distraction.
The Patriots will be back in the news for actual football reasons this week. They opened organized team activities yesterday at Gillette Stadium and will begin a three-day stretch of media availability, starting with today’s introduction of first-round draft pick Malcom Brown.
Fellow draft picks Geneo Grissom, Trey Flowers, Tre’ Jackson and Shaq Mason will meet the media tomorrow.
Yesterday marked the start of the sixth week of the Patriots’ nine-week offseason workout program. The OTAs, which are the third and final phase, permit the offense and defense to finally practice against one another, though contact and pads remain off limits. The Pats will conduct 10 voluntary OTAs during the next three weeks before they close down the program June 16-18 with their mandatory minicamp.
Reporters will watch Friday’s practice as well as the sessions on June 4, June 11 and the entire minicamp.
Quarterback Tom Brady is scheduled to field questions from reporters for the first time this offseason on Friday night at his annual Best Buddies fundraiser at Harvard, so Deflategate won’t be completely buried this week. Of course, the NFL and NFLPA also have until today to schedule Brady’s appeal hearing, so a resolution could be realized if they abide by that soft deadline.
But for the first time in weeks, the Patriots at least have other ways to make headlines.
Back in line
Linebacker Dane Fletcher re-upped with the Patriots on a one-year deal yesterday, as the team continued to load up the depth chart behind Jerod Mayo, Dont’a Hightower and Jamie Collins.
Fletcher was a Pats reserve linebacker and special teamer from 2010-13 before a one-year cruise with the Buccaneers. He visited Gillette with Brandon Spikes on May 6 and left a positive impression, but the Pats still signed Dekoda Watson on May 12 and Spikes on May 18 before reuniting with Fletcher.
With OTAs in full swing, it’s important to have Spikes and Fletcher in tow because they understand the defense for the most part. Mayo (torn patellar) and Hightower (torn shoulder labrum) are on the mend, so there is a short-term advantage to practicing with familiar faces rather than plugging a variety of linebackers into the mix alongside Collins.
The crop of backup linebackers also includes a strong special teamer in Chris White, a intriguingly speedy draft pick in Matt Wells and a promising second-year returnee in James Morris, so the competition for the final jobs will be intense. That’s the long-term benefit of stacking the position.
Hall of an honor
Pass-rusher extraordinaire Willie McGinest has become the 24th member elected to the Patriots Hall of Fame.
McGinest, who had 78 sacks in 12 seasons with the Patriots, won a fan vote against finalists Raymond Clayborn and Leon Gray. He’ll be enshrined with senior committee selection Houston Antwine at a free ceremony at Gillette this summer, and the date will be announced when finalized.
“It’s a humbling experience,” McGinest said. “I know I was one of a couple of really, really talented players who were also deserving. I want to pay my respects to all players wearing a Patriots uniform who also deserve this honor.”
McGinest was Robert Kraft’s first draft pick as the Patriots owner in 1994.
“Willie played a critical role in transforming us from a cellar dweller into a championship-caliber team,” Kraft said. “He was a leader of a defensive unit that propelled the Patriots to our first Super Bowl championship in 2001. His leadership during the season and dominance in the postseason proved principal to our success in winning back-to-back titles in 2003 and 2004.”
Ben’s got his back
Count Ben Roethlisberger among those in Brady’s corner.
The Steelers quarterback said the regular-season opener against the Patriots at Gillette will have a different feel if Brady isn’t in uniform.
“He’s a guy, I’ve said for a long time, he’s the best in the business, and he proved it again last year winning his fourth (Super Bowl),” Roethlisberger told ESPN. “If he’s not out there, it’s not the same. I have a lot of respect for him on the football field and some of the unbelievable things that he’s done. I guess we’ll wait and see what’s finally going to happen.”
New wideout
The Patriots rounded out their 90-man roster yesterday by signing undrafted rookie Zach D’Orazio, who caught 119 passes for 1,422 yards and five touchdowns in 28 games as a wide receiver at Akron.
More On:
© Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.

