 
During a combative and feisty press conference last week, Sen. Bob Menendez of New Jersey went on offense. Bigtime offense.  Menendez was targeted in this critique of federal prosecutors.
He said they, “don’t know the difference between friendship and corruption and have chosen to twist my duties as a senator and my friendship into something that is improper.”
“I have always conducted myself in accordance with the law. I have always stood up for what I believe is right. I fight for issues I believe in the people I represent and the safety and security of this country every single day. That’s who I am and I am proud of what I have accomplished and I am not going anywhere,” Menendez added. 
Federal prosecutors have experienced misteps in prosecution in the past.  The trial of the late Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska tuned into a fiasco after it was learned that prosecutors withheld info from the defense.  The Stevens case was based on favors Stevens had allegedly accepted in the form or improvements to his home.  
In the Menendez case, the charges are more serious and if the indictment is accurate, easier to prove.  Menendez is facing a 14-count indictment  with allegations that he acted on favors for a  wealthy friend and donor, Dr. Salomon Melgen.  The indictment alleges that the Senator acted in exchange for gifts and campaign donations.
About the Author
Lauren Victoria Burke
 
 
 
 
 
 
by Lauren Victoria Burke
by Lauren Victoria Burke
by Lauren Victoria Burke
by Alton Drew
by Politic365 Staff
Leave a Reply
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
 
 
Politic365 is the premier digital destination for politics and policy related to communities of color. Not only do we create a positive media outlet for the empowerment and enrichment of our elected officials and community leaders, we also provide a venue for the exploration of issues important to our communities.
While our primary goal is to amplify discourse about communities of color, we openly welcome and encourage engagement by all audiences because the issues that affect us bear on the nation at large. Read More
Game Changers
 
In recognizing the power and importance of good leadership, Politic365 embarked upon a mission to identify and honor 365 individuals from across the country, all of whom are actively creating opportunities to improve the socio-economic and political climate in this country.
Whether through their social policy advocacy, political engineering, work behind the scenes at corporations large and small, or their ability to leverage their brand for the benefit of others, Politic365 Game Changers are shaping this nation in profound and dramatic ways. Read More
Flickr Photos
 
 

