Recent
Recent
Recent
Other Vehicles for Sale
Saved
2 hours ago
FRANKFORT, Ky. (AP) — If Wisconsin manages to stop Kentucky's win streak Saturday in their NCAA men's Final Four basketball game, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker will win a basket of his own, filled with Kentucky bourbons from Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear.
Beshear and Walker are wagering on their home teams, and Walker bet a basket of Wisconsin cheese, sausage and root beer.
Beshear's office says the bourbons are from Lexington-area distillers and are provided by the Kentucky Distillers' Association.
Kentucky (38-0) will tip off against Wisconsin (35-3) at 8:49 p.m. EDT Saturday at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis. The winner advances to the championship game Monday against the winner of Saturday's game between Michigan State and Duke.
Copyright 2015 La Crosse Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Follow The La Crosse Tribune
Top Jobs
Pet Me Scratch Me
Pet Me Scratch Me is locally owned and family operated by Stac…
EARN $50 TODAY!* Trade in your checks or debit card from anoth…
Blue Bus Photo Booths
Making memories is the best part of any event. What better way…
This great assortment of milk and dark chocolate really does h…
Use our Loose Diamond Search Tool to find the perfect Diamond …
Today's Question
Yes
No
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Email:
La Crosse Tribune Newsletter
Breaking News, News Update and Sports Update Headlines. Delivered at 11a.m. daily.
La Crosse Tribune promotions
Business Report Newsletter
La Crosse Tribune Jobs Newsletter
New employment opportunities in the region.
La Crosse Tribune Homes Newsletter
Local homes for sale.
Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUVs, Motorcycles, ATVs, Boats, RV's & more
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
SEARCH ALL ADS
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with lacrossetribune.com account:
Username & Password Required!

