Anthony Napolitano defeated Ald. Mary O'Connor in the 41st Ward.
Ald. Mary O’Connor, a staunch supporter of Mayor Rahm Emanuel in the City Council, failed to keep her 41st Ward seat Tuesday night, while Progressive Caucus member Ald. John Arena — targeted for defeat by the mayor’s super PAC — easily won re-election in the 45th Ward.
Elsewhere on the Northwest Side, in the wide open 36th Ward, Gilbert Villegas, who was endorsed by Cook County Commissioner and failed mayoral candidate Jesus “Chuy” Garcia, defeated Omar Aquino, a onetime outreach coordinator for U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth, D-Ill., who was backed by Cook County Assessor Joseph Berrios.
O’Connor — who got $38,710 in support from the pro-Emanuel “Chicago Forward” Super PAC in the February and runoff races — conceded the race to Chicago firefighter and political newbie Anthony Napolitano, who was backed by the powerful Service Employees International Union. 
Napolitano led O’Connor 53 percent to 47 percent with 83 percent of precincts reporting. The 41st Ward includes Norwood Park, Edgebrook, Edison Park, Oriole Park and O’Hare Airport.
Arena, who’s been a thorn in the mayor’s side since taking office in his Northwest Side Ward in 2011, easily defeated Chicago Police lieutenant and attorney John Garrido, who ran in 2010 as a Republican for Cook County Board president.
With 96 percent of precincts reporting, Arena led Garrido 53 percent to 47 percent. The 45th Ward includes Jefferson Park, Forest Glen, Gladstone Park, Portage Park and Old Irving Park.
In 2011, Arena had bested Garrido by just 30 votes. That made losing Tuesday more palatable, Garrido said from his election-night party at the Copernicus Center.
“I don’t have to think about doing this again,” he explained. “If it’s too close, it’s always in the back of your mind. The voters have spoken, they want Ald. Arena. I hope by us bringing him to a runoff like this, it lets him know he has some work to do to connect a little bit better with the community.”
Arena said he was looking forward to working with Garrido.
“This is just a ward, we need to come together,” he said.
Villegas, a government affairs and business consultant backed by state Rep. Luis Arroyo, D-Chicago, and endorsed by Garcia, was leading Aquino 56 percent to 44 percent with 97 percent of precincts reporting. 
The 36th Ward seat opened up after Chicago’s wards were remapped, and incumbent Ald. Nick Sposato ran and won outright in February in the neighboring 38th Ward. The 36th Ward encompasses Galewood, Montclare, Schorsch Village, Belmont Heights, Belmont Terrace and Schorsch Forest View.
.@MaryMitchellCST: Humility, black partnerships forge a win for Rahm Emanuel http://t.co/HWzyzytv47
Latest
Chicago Sun-Times Network Info

