Photos
Deborah Maynard, a Wiccan priestess, delivers the invocation in the House Chambers at the Iowa State Capitol building in Des Moines on Thursday, Apr. 9, 2015. Maynard was invited by State Rep. Liz Bennett (D-Cedar Rapids). (Stephen Mally/The Gazette)
Deborah Maynard, a Wiccan priestess, talks with someone before giving the invocation in the House Chambers at the Iowa State Capitol building in Des Moines on Thursday, Apr. 9, 2015. Maynard was invited by State Rep. Liz Bennett (D-Cedar Rapids). (Stephen Mally/The Gazette)
Deborah Maynard, a Wiccan priestess, delivers the invocation in the House Chambers at the Iowa State Capitol building in Des Moines on Thursday, Apr. 9, 2015. Maynard was invited by State Rep. Liz Bennett (D-Cedar Rapids). (Stephen Mally/The Gazette)
State Rep. Rob Taylor (R-West Des Moines) faces away from Deborah Maynard (not pictured), a Wiccan priestess, as she gives the invocation in the House Chambers at the Iowa State Capitol building in Des Moines on Thursday, Apr. 9, 2015. Maynard was invited by State Rep. Liz Bennett (D-Cedar Rapids). (Stephen Mally/The Gazette)
Speaker Kraig Paulsen (R-Cedar Rapids), State Rep. Liz Bennett (D-Cedar Rapids) and Deborah Maynard, a Wiccan priestess, face the flag as they recite the Pledge of Allegiance after Maynard gave the invocation in the House Chambers at the Iowa State Capitol building in Des Moines on Thursday, Apr. 9, 2015. Maynard was invited by State Rep. Liz Bennett (D-Cedar Rapids). (Stephen Mally/The Gazette)
Deborah Maynard, a Wiccan priestess, talks to the media after delivering the invocation in the House Chambers at the Iowa State Capitol building in Des Moines on Thursday, Apr. 9, 2015. Maynard was invited by State Rep. Liz Bennett (D-Cedar Rapids). (Stephen Mally/The Gazette)
Most Popular
DES MOINES — What would Jesus do?
If he were a member of the Iowa Legislature, Rep. Rob Taylor believes he would peacefully protest the morning prayer being offered by a Wiccan priestess. So the West Des Moines Republican turned his back Thursday and prayed silently as Cedar Rapids Cabot witch Deborah Maynard prayed from the speaker's podium to “god, goddess, universe, that which is greater than ourselves.”
Many of his colleagues chose not to attend the daily prayer, but Taylor said that after praying over it, he decided the appropriate response would be to “be in the presence of a prayer, but peacefully protest.”
Despite Taylor's protest and the boycott by more than a third of the House members, Maynard thought the prayer went well.
“It was kind of a rush,” said Maynard, 43, a project manager for a company she declined to identify. “It was awe-inspiring. It was humbling. A little scary to be the first one to do something like that in the state of Iowa and the third one in the nation.”
The hard part wasn't delivering the prayer, but keeping it within the House one-minute guideline, she said after becoming the first person to offer a Wiccan prayer at the Iowa Legislature.
Maynard, a Unitarian Universalist and the leader of the Covenant of Unitarian Universalist Pagans, said her goal was inclusion.
“I just wanted to show that the House is very inclusive of all faith traditions,” she said. The Unitarian Universalist tradition is open to all faiths.
The Wiccan religion is earth-based spirituality, she said. “We believe in Mother Earth, Father Sky. We believe we are all connected to the interdependent web of all existence. We love nature.”
The morning prayer is a tradition in the House and Senate. Typically it is offered by a member of the clergy. In their absence, lawmakers offer the invocation.
If Maynard was not bothered by the absence of many legislators, Interfaith Executive Director Connie Ryan Terrell was.
“In a way it troubles me in that we all should be respectful of people's traditions and beliefs,” she said after the prayer. “People should stand and be respectful, should be in the chamber if they are traditionally in the chamber.”
In a statement sent to the media, Terrell went on to say “it is disingenuous for some legislators and conservative religious groups to create a public outcry against a minority religion when they often cry wolf about their own religious rights being under assault.”
However, Bob Vander Plaats of conservative Christian The Family Leader said Maynard offering the prayer a “stunning development (that) many Christians across the state recognize has spiritual ramification.”
Citing the Bible, he quoted from Ephesians: “For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.”
Taylor, a Protestant Christian who has recently celebrated Easter, said he asked himself “what would Jesus do?”
“Jesus would be in the chamber, from my perspective, he would passively protest. Then he would seek that individual out and have peaceful conversation about why his way was the best way,” Taylor said.
There was no offense taken, and he didn't hear anything troubling or offensive.
“Everyone has the right to come into our chamber — it is the people's chamber — and pray and she did and this was the way for me to peacefully protest,” Taylor said.
Taylor acknowledged that he did not turn his back when Islamic or Jewish prayers have been offered in the House chamber.
Bennett was not offended by Taylor's turned back, or the absence of her colleagues, because she values everyone's right to respond in a way they think is right.
Later, Taylor met briefly with Maynard and invited her to have coffee so they could talk further.
“My purpose in inviting Deborah was not to force anyone to listen to anything they are uncomfortable listening to,” said Bennett, who is openly LGBTQ. “Iowa is a very diverse state and I'm glad that I could do something to make out Statehouse just a little bit more open and welcoming.”
Bennett said she's received about 50 supportive emails.
While Taylor was praying, Pastor Michael Demastus of the Fort Des Moines Church of Christ was in the balcony overlooking the House floor praying for Maynard.
“I was praying for her salvation. I was praying that she would come to know the one true God,” Demastus said. “I believe that the occult is dark. I do believe that's not the place to see guidance from, so I was not praying against her. I was praying against what she was doing.”
He was joined by Michelle Gute, a Huxley resident who said she came to the Capitol to counteract the Wiccan message with a Christian prayer to protect the elected officials in the building making decisions on behalf of Iowans.
“I don't want any demonic influences on the people who are making decisions on our behalf. I was not praying with her,” she said. “I was praying the opposite. Our country was founded on godly principles, not goddesses and whoever she was praying to.”
Reike Plecas of I Believe Radio said he came to the Capitol to celebrate the freedom of being able to “pledge allegiance to God and to our nation” and for people “to have the religious right to pray to who they desire to.”
“As a Christian, I have to stand in faith for her salvation and pray for her. Not pray against her, but pray against principalities and more so for her salvation,” Plecas said. “I personally don't believe that Christians came here to stand against the Wiccan priestess. I believe that we came here united to stand for her salvation.”
Sen. Dennis Guth, R-Klemme, crossed the Statehouse rotunda to view the House prayer from the chamber's south gallery.
“I think it was somewhat of a non-event,” noted the freshman senator. “I think the actual prayer didn't amount to a whole lot.”
Guth said he was “very encouraged” to see a sizable number of Iowans turn out for Thursday's proceedings and make a stand for what they believe in.
For his part, Guth said “I was praying for the power of God to be manifest here and praising the one who created all things and is the victor in the end.”
Have you found an error or omission in our reporting? Is there other feedback and/or ideas you want to share with us? Tell us here.

