CNA
2015-05-27
Morris Chang talks to reporters in Taipei, May 26 (Photo/CNA)
Morris Chang, chairman of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co, the world's largest contract chip maker, said Tuesday that he and former US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke share the view that the American Dream still exists, but is more difficult to attain than in the past.
Chang, who attended a forum sponsored by local magazine Business Weekly in Taipei, said he asked Bernanke if the American Dream still exists.
The American dream means that if one works hard, he or she can climb the ladder of success, Chang said.
Chang added that when he arrived in the United States, his parents were very ppor, but he managed to climb to be among the top 10% of society by the age of 40.
He realized his own dream, but nowadays a lot of American immigrants cannot realize their dreams, he said.
Bernanke said he shares Chang's feelings, adding that although his parents were also immigrants, he realized his own dream.
Chang said that Taiwan also has its own dream, but this is also more difficult to attain than it was two or three decades ago.
Whether it is an American or Taiwanese dream, the destination is to become middle-class, not super-wealthy, Chang went on.
At the forum, Bernanke was also questioned about America's quantitative easing (QE) policy. He himself engineered all three rounds of the US quantitative easing following the 2007-08 financial crisis.
He said that adopting a monetary policy of driving down the currency rate boosted exports of the manufacturing sector, but also carried risks.
Kuan Chung-ming, a former chairman of the National Development Council, questioned Bernanke's QE policy, noting that some have complained that it has had a big impact on Taiwan and other emerging countries.
Bernanke said that Europe and Japan have adopted floating exchange rates and have not complained about the US policy, unlike economies that have adopted fixed exchange rates.
Lee Jih-chu, chairperson of Taiwan Financial Holdings and the Bank of Taiwan, said the QE policy has helped the United States on the road to recovery.
But many countries have now adopted QE policies and if they cannot handle it well, too much liquidity will lead to another crisis.
Asked if the internationalization of the Chinese yuan or renminbi will threaten the dominant status of the US dollar, Bernanke said only that the United States is not concerned about this.
Bernanke, who served as governor of the US central bank from 2006-2014, is the first former Fed chairman to visit Taiwan.
Article Tools

