Published: 6:14PM Wednesday May 27, 2015 Source: ONE News
Related
The wife of an Australian Islamic State recruit, and mother of a young boy who was photographed holding a severed head, will go to jail if she returns from Syria.
The shocking family photo of the seven-year-old boy holding a severed head showed the world the brutality of ISIS.
But now his mother, Tara Nettleton, wants to return to Australia with her five children, saying she's had enough of life in Syria.
Prime Minister Tony Abbott says Ms Nettleton will face the full force of the law if she returns to Australia.
"The beheadings, the crucifixions, the mass executions, the sexual slavery -  and people that are involved in that are doing evil things," he says.
Allegedly involved is the young boy's father, one of the most notorious faces of Australian terror, Khaled Sharrouf.
He left Sydney in 2013 to fight in Syria. His wife moved their five children to the warzone soon after.
"Let's not for a second forget the evil barbarism which the Daish death cult is perpetating across wide swathes of the Middle East," Mr Abbott says.
Advertisement
But, Sharrouf's wife, Ms Nettleton, has reportedly had enough and wants to bring her children home.
Immigration Minister Peter Dutton says the children could be placed in state care.
"It depends on the circumstance, the ages of the children. If they're infants, for example, then they would be in state care as we've seen with some people who have decided to abandon their children and go off and fight," he says.
Around 100 Australians are believed to be fighting with terror groups in Iraq and Syria.
Legislation to strip dual nationals, like Sharrouf, of citizenship is imminent. It's a compromise for Tony Abbott who would rather stop all those who leave from ever coming back.
"Crime is crime is crime," he says.
Ms Nettleton's father and the children's grandfather, Peter Nettleton, says he doesn't know their wherabouts or what they are doing.
"I only know through the newspapers and television where they are," he says.
"I still love my daughter and I hope she comes home safely."
That could be the only warm welcome Ms Nettleton gets, with Australian authorities promising a long stint in jail if she returns.
Most Popular
|

