Originally published May 26, 2015 at 7:31 pm
Updated May 26, 2015 at 7:58 pm
Companies reach $11 million settlement with 22 states for deceptive business practices
A social-networking site and floral-delivery company have agreed to pay $11 million to resolve allegations of deceptive billing and advertising in a multistate settlement, attorneys general from Washington and 21 other states announced Tuesday.
According to a news release from the Washington state Office of the Attorney General, the settlement resulted from an investigation that alleged Seattle-based Classmates, Florists’ Transworld Delivery and its subsidiary FTD.com violated state consumer-protection laws by engaging in misleading practices.
“We are satisfied with the terms of the settlement,” said Shannon Smith, division chief of the consumer-protection division of the state Attorney General’s Office. “We think the terms of the settlement put in some strong protections for consumers.”
According to the release, Classmates and FTD would pass along consumers’ personal information, including billing information, to third-party marketing partners such as travel rewards programs and discount buying clubs without telling consumers. The partners could then charge the consumers unless they opted out.
Most Read Stories
The settlement also provides restitution for certain Classmates subscribers.
“With respect to Classmates, [the settlement] gives consumers who weren’t able to get a refund after not being able to cancel their service or [who got] signed up for the Classmates service without their authorization … the opportunity to get a refund,” said Smith.
Eligible customers can obtain restitution through the agreement if Classmates charged them for subscriptions without authorization or obtained authorization through misrepresentation. Customers can also receive refunds if Classmates charged them after the subscription was canceled or if there was difficulty in canceling it.
Classmates and FTD, which were affiliates until 2013, have agreed to change their business practices. Neither company has admitted wrongdoing.
A spokesperson for FTD declined to comment, and Classmates did not return a request for comment.
Those in the state who think they may be eligible for restitution can file a complaint with the Attorney General’s Office at www.atg.wa.gov/file-complaint.
Other states included in the settlement are Alabama, Alaska, Delaware, Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Nebraska, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Texas, Vermont and Wisconsin.
No personal attacks or insults, no hate speech, no profanity. Please keep the conversation civil and help us moderate this thread by reporting any abuse. See our Commenting FAQ .
Weekend getaways

