May 26, 2015
Updated  11:05 p.m.
LOS ANGELES – The Dodgers’ front office works in mysterious ways.
Just hours after Alberto Callaspo scuttled a multi-player trade that would send him to the Dodgers in exchange for veteran third baseman Juan Uribe, Callaspo apparently changed his mind and agreed to join the Dodgers. That set in motion a trade that will reportedly send Uribe and a minor-league pitcher to the Braves in exchange for Callaspo and three pitchers – reportedly left-handers Eric Stults and Ian Thomas and right-hander Juan Jaime.
Both Dodgers president of baseball operations Andrew Friedman and GM Farhan Zaidi were outside the clubhouse following Tuesday’s game but would not confirm the deal or answer questions about any trade talks. But multiple reports indicate it is completed pending approval from the commissioner’s office and Uribe left the clubhouse, having said his goodbyes to teammates.
“I asked him if this meant I’m not going to be able to charge room service to his room anymore. We kind of had a back-and-forth thing going,” Dodgers first baseman Adrian Gonzalez said. “He’s been great. Everybody here loves him. It’s going to be a loss in the clubhouse, for sure.”
Callaspo could not be traded before June 15 without his consent because he signed as a free agent with the Braves last winter. He was in the lineup as the Braves’ starting third baseman both Monday and Tuesday but was scratched before game time both nights.
Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez said after after Monday’s game that Callapso had been scratched because a trade was pending. By the time he arrived at Dodger Stadium on Tuesday, however, Callaspo had vetoed that deal and explained to reporters that he liked the Braves and his teammates and hoped to stay with them all season.
That lasted a little more than two hours.
A fan – and clubhouse – favorite, Uribe had been marginalized of late with the emergence of Alex Guerrero and Justin Turner’s ascension to the primary third baseman. At 36, Uribe is hitting .247 with one home run in the final year of a contract extension that will pay him $6.5 million this year.
Callaspo has been even worse for the Braves and seemed destined for an even more diminished role – or possibly designation for assignment – with third baseman Chris Johnson expected to return from the DL later this week. Signed for one year at $3 million by the Braves last winter, Callaspo hit .206 with one home run in 37 games for the Braves.
His time with the Dodgers could be short – after all, this front office has DFA’d players within days of their acquisition multiple times over the past six months. Callaspo figures to have no greater role than Uribe had in the shadow of Turner and Guerrero and could become even more expendable when Cuban infielder Hector Olivera is deemed ready for the major leagues at some point in the next month or so.
“Everybody knows this is not my first team,” Uribe said through an interpreter before the game – and Callaspo’s reversal. “My first team was Colorado. I went from Colorado to Chicago and Chicago to San Francisco then here. You never know what happens. It’s a decision they have to make and I respect the decision.
“It’s not what I want. You have to take things as they come. That’s what it comes down to.”
Dodgers manager Don Mattingly likened the crowded situation at third base this year to the overcrowded outfield he dealt with the past two seasons. Uribe emerged as the odd man out as the season progressed. After starting 19 of the Dodgers’ first 29 games at third, Uribe had started just three times in 15 games before Tuesday.
“It’s not a lot different as far as trying to mix guys in early (in the season) to keep guys involved and then you get to a point where you have to make a decision,” Mattingly said. “It took a lot longer with the outfielders for me to say, ‘OK, this is the way I see the outfield playing out.’ Third base has been a little different in that it’s been quicker when I said, ‘OK, I’ve got to get Alex and Justin in there.’
“Juan never did anything wrong. It’s just professional sports. The guy who performs plays.”
AROUND THE BASES
Mattingly said outfielder Yasiel Puig will head to the Dodgers’ training complex in Arizona when the team goes on the road later this week. Out because of a left hamstring strain, Puig has been hitting in the batting cage and doing “more and more baseball-wise.” But Mattingly said “the running part has still been a problem. … Every time they try it (running), they’ve gotten some level of tightness” in the hamstring. … Yasmani Grandal began his injury-rehabilitation assignment with Triple-A Oklahoma City on Tuesday night, going 1 for 3 with three walks and three runs scored at DH. Grandal is expected to DH Wednesday and Thursday as well then rejoin the Dodgers in St. Louis this weekend. … Left-hander Brett Anderson experienced stiffness in his back during the fifth inning of his start Monday but remained in the game and completed seven innings for the first time with the Dodgers. Anderson said he felt only normal day-after soreness Tuesday.
Contact the writer: bplunkett@ocregister.com
Most popular
Comments are encouraged, but you must follow our User Agreement
Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial     slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about     tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to     allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to     republish your name and comment in additional Register publications     without any notification or payment.
Business Directory

