Minneapolis activists deliver a 'People's State of the City'
Members of the group Neighborhoods Organizing for Transform gathered at Minneapolis City Hall on Friday to deliver a &ldquopeople&rsquos state of the union” speech focused on workers’ rights and police adjustments.Mike Griffin, a field organizer...
Members of the group Neighborhoods Organizing for Transform gathered at Minneapolis City Hall on Friday to deliver a &ldquopeople&rsquos state of the union” speech focused on workers’ rights and police adjustments.
Mike Griffin, a field organizer for the group, applauded the State of the City address given a day earlier by Mayor Betsy Hodges. He mentioned the mayor&rsquos pledge to perform for fair scheduling, greater enforcement of how companies spend overtime and broader access to paid sick days are in line with the agenda his organization developed for the city earlier this year.
A handful of speakers discussed their experiences of operating even though sick or injured because they couldn&rsquot afford to take unpaid time off and of grappling with unpredictable schedules that normally come with very lengthy shifts.
Navell Gordon, the community organizer who gained attention last year following posing for a photo with Mayor Betsy Hodges — in a story that came to be known as &ldquopointergate” — said he&rsquos been repeatedly stopped by police when near his job at Neighborhoods Organizing for Alter. He stated he&rsquos been stopped more than accusations of spitting on the sidewalk, an offense some council members are trying to get removed from the city code.
Council Members Cam Gordon, Alondra Cano and Lisa Bender stood with the group in the course of its presentation. Gordon stated repealing rules about spitting and lurking would go a lengthy way toward preventing police from targeting minority groups.
Between 2009 and 2014, 59 percent of the persons the Minneapolis Police Division arrested for lurking have been black, when 24 % were white. Meanwhile, 69 % of the persons who referred to as to report lurking offenses have been white, though 12 % were black.
&ldquoI&rsquom hoping that our effort to repeal these two small laws can aid us have a deeper conversation about where else is this structural racism baked into our program,” Gordon said. &ldquoAnd how can we in fact, and lastly, dismantle the new Jim Crow that&rsquos plaguing our city.”
The ordinances are scheduled for a public hearing on May well 6.
Also on Friday, the council approved funding for Target Center improvements and ditched a single sailboat from the city&rsquos logo. The council also nixed a proposed travel ban to Indiana in response to a law some say would permit discrimination of LGBT residents.
The Indiana vote was the most surprising, since Hodges named for the ban on city-funded travel there two days ago on the basis of the new law. City attorney Susan Segal said a recent amendment to that Indiana law makes it extra palatable.
Hodges stated the effort wasn&rsquot for naught, specifically given that the pressure also led to change in a comparable Arkansas law.
&ldquoWhat men and women about the nation and what we&rsquore doing right here is producing a difference, not just in Indiana but in other states as effectively,” Hodges said. &ldquoI consider if you ask the governor of Arkansas no matter if it mattered that individuals protested what occurred in Indiana, he would, in an sincere moment, say, &lsquoYes, it did make a difference.’ ”
The council voted 11-two to approve an extra $24.5 million in city funds for the Target Center renovation, bringing the city&rsquos commitment to $74 million. The total project price range is now about $129 million.
Council members Bender and Andrew Johnson voted no. Bender stated employees negotiated a very good deal, but &ldquoI don&rsquot help the underlying premise that this should really be a priority for our public dollars.”
 
Erin Golden • 612-673-4790
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

