Gay Rights Will Continue to Divide Republicans: Albert R. Hunt
&nbspGay rights will not fade as a political situation. The Republican base won&rsquot let it.Prominent Republicans calculated that if the Supreme Court ruled that identical-sex marriage was constitutionally protected, the concern would become settled law...
&nbspGay rights will not fade as a political situation. The Republican base won&rsquot let it.
Prominent Republicans calculated that if the Supreme Court ruled that identical-sex marriage was constitutionally protected, the concern would become settled law and disappear politically. This would be welcome, they reasoned, as the party was on the wrong side of the politics and history.
Then Indiana enacted a Religious Freedom Restoration Act final month that critics stated would let private enterprises to discriminate against gays and lesbians. Arkansas followed with a equivalent measure.
Just after vehement opposition from businesses in both states, Republican governors forced modifications that make it extra difficult to discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation.
But a top indicator was the reaction of Republican presidential candidates: They leapt to defend the initial Indiana law. Jeb Bush expressed all-out assistance in an interview on a conservative radio talk show and then modified his position at a Silicon Valley fundraiser.
Social conservatives are determined to retain this issue alive, reasoning that the environment that made adjustments in the laws last week will develop into much more favorable right after they have had time to stir up the grassroots. That will pose challenges for Republicans in a common election the politics have changed substantially compared with a decade ago, when Republican political guru Karl Rove utilised the issue against Democrats.
Vital components of the Republican base haven't changed. Most, not all, evangelical/born-again white Christians are troubled by gay rights. This group accounts for additional than 40 percent of the Republicans nationally and for much more than 50 percent of the vote in the significant early Iowa and South Carolina Republican presidential tests. That guarantees Ted Cruz and Mike Huckabee will make these challenges uncomfortable for Jeb Bush and Scott Walker.
Nineteen states have religious freedom laws, and some go beyond the 1993 federal law. Four -- Connecticut, Illinois, New Mexico and Rhode Island -- have measures that contain a ban on discrimination based on sexual orientation.
But Indiana postponed the matter of prohibiting anti-gay discrimination. In Georgia recently, as the legislature drafted a measure supported by religious conservatives, a Republican attempted to amend it to clarify that it wouldn&rsquot permit discrimination against gays and lesbians the bill&rsquos sponsor suggested that would defeat the law's objective.
The politically powerful religious or conservative ideal can be expected to set litmus tests for Republican presidential candidates: opposing new anti-discrimination measures designed to safeguard gays and lesbians and guarding against what they warn is a slippery slope on matters including adoptions by similar-sex couples.
Quite a few of these social activists sincerely be concerned that it really is white people today of religion who face discrimination some think that very same-sex marriage, gay rights in general, violate the law of God.
There are parallels to race. Religion was often cited as a rationale for segregation if God intended whites and blacks to be together, why did he develop various races, fundamentalists would ask. There have been comparable issues with discrimination in public accommodations and housing. It wasn&rsquot until 1967 that the Supreme Court gave constitutional protection to interracial marriage.
These days, these difficulties build a genuine schism amongst Republican constituencies, with substantially of the organization community displaying assistance for gay rights. These are not just West Coast or high-tech firms, but corporations based in Middle America, such as Eli Lilly and Wal-Mart.
The religious suitable sees this as a battle among economics and morality. Politically, even so, the most telling reaction to the Indiana law was that of effectively-identified athletes normally not considered part of any left-wing crusade. The basketball good Charles Barkley recommended the collegiate basketball tournament shouldn't be held in Indiana, and Pat Haden, former all-star quarterback and now athletic director at the University of Southern California, boycotted an athletic event in the Hoosier state.
© Copyright 2015 Bloomberg News. All rights reserved.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

