Connect
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I cover security and privacy for Forbes. I’ve been breaking news and writing features on these topics for major publications since 2010. As a freelancer, I worked for The Guardian, Vice Motherboard, Wired and BBC.com, amongst many others. I was named BT Security Journalist of the year in 2012 and 2013 for a range of exclusive articles, and in 2014 was handed Best News Story for a feature on US government harassment of security professionals. I like to hear from hackers who are breaking things for either fun or profit and researchers who've uncovered nasty things lurking on the internet. Data breaches are always of interest too. You can email me at TFox-Brewster@forbes.com. If you have a story to tell and are worried about prying eyes, here's my PGP fingerprint: 1EF8 CD0E 342E 7C50 430B 1F87 14E4 1420 BBFB F0B4
The Human Rights Watch, backed up by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, has filed a suit against the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) over its reported bulk collection of Americans’ phone call records, just a day after USA Today reported on the program.
The paper claimed  the Justice Department, via the DEA, collected billions of phone records a decade before the September 11th terrorist attacks and the subsequent Patriot Act that led to mass NSA spying. According to the report, the DEA hoovered up almost all telephone calls from the US to 116 countries linked to drug trafficking.
A legal filing from the Human Rights Watch alleged the DEA had carried out “untargeted and suspicionless surveillance of Americans”, claiming it violated the first and fourth amendments, the latter prohibiting unreasonable searches, the former covering freedom of speech. The program was never revealed to the public and was set up in 1992, according to sources speaking with USA Today, which claimed the records were often taken without court approval. It also involved subpoenas sent to US telecoms providers, asking them to provide call records, that eventually amounted to “a treasure trove of very important information on trafficking”, said former DEA administrator Thomas Constantine.
NEW YORK, NY – MARCH 22: Eric Holder was one Attorney General to approve the DEA surveillance program. (Photo by Rob Kim/Getty Images)
The program, which scooped up call metadata rather than the actual content of calls, was discontinued in 2013. It was approved through four different presidents, from George Bush Sr. to Obama.
“The NSA isn’t the only federal agency collecting Americans’ call records in bulk,” said EFF staff attorney Mark Rumold. “The DEA’s program is yet another example of federal agencies overreaching their surveillance authority in secret. We are asking the court to require the government to destroy the records it illegally collected no matter where they are held, and to declare—once and for all—that bulk collection of Americans’ records is unconstitutional.’’
This week has also seen the release of a document from the Department of Homeland Security , noting that all electronic devices crossing the US border are subject to a search.
Enter Your Comment
Share

