By David Sherfinski -      The Washington Times -                                    Tuesday, April 7, 2015
Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry said that Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky’s entrance into the 2016 presidential contest would add a nice “prism” to it, but that the former governor himself is uniquely positioned as a veteran of the Air Force and former chief executive in Texas.
“Rand coming into the contest, I think, would add a nice prism to it, let me put it that way,” Mr. Perry said Monday evening on Fox News’ “The Kelly File” when asked about Mr. Paul’s expected candidacy and the differences on foreign policy the two have had. “He is a very capable United States senator, but having worn the uniform of this country, having been the governor for 14 years and had to deal with the issues that we face, seeing our troops deployed into those areas of combat — I’ve been in Iraq and Afghanistan with them. I understand what they go through.
Mr. Perry , a potential 2016 GOP presidential contender himself, delivered a speech on foreign policy at The Citadel in the early presidential state of South Carolina on Monday.
“And I think the more important part of this is to articulate to this country as I did today the real challenge that we have as a country,” Mr. Perry said. “This administration is hollowing out our military. We do not have the capacity today to be fighting two wars in two different theaters today, and that must be addressed.”
“And that’s the bigger issue and I think the more important issue for the American people to really focus on is the next president of the United States is going to absorb this chaos that’s being created by this administration, so we need to talk about how we build our military back up, how we project the western values, if [you] will, how we protect our allies and how we send clear messages to  our enemies that if you cross a red line, there will be a consequence,” he continued.
Shares
Question of the Day
Is President Obama right that a nuke deal with Iran will make U.S. safer?
Question of the Day
Most Popular

