By Brian Bakst and Kia Farhang, Associated Press
April 9th, 2015 @ 2:51pm
ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Hoping to muster support for an expansive preschool learning plan and other parts of his ambitious agenda, Gov. Mark Dayton headed Thursday before the Legislature for a speech to drive home what matters most to him in the session's final five weeks.
Dayton's prime-time State of the State address comes later in the year than usual, leaving the Democrat to stamp an exclamation mark on previously outlined proposals rather than roll out new ones. He has already released a two-year budget proposal, a long-term transportation finance plan, a general public works program and much more.
Aides said Dayton was planning to label as critical a preschool initiative that aims to enroll all four-year-olds in quality, tuition-free learning programs. He previously has held it out as a complement to an all-day kindergarten offering enacted in his first term, both of which fit with his belief that giving younger kids a jumpstart in structured classrooms will improve odds for lifelong achievement.
Minnesota has one of the country's lowest rates of four-year-old enrollment in publicly-funded preschool programs, according to a recent report from the U.S. Department of Education. Just 15 percent were enrolled during the 2012-2013 school year, far below the national rate of 41 percent and severely lagging neighboring Wisconsin and Iowa. Dayton's $343 million plan would surely boost those numbers, though some lawmakers argue the money would be better used for scholarships for the neediest families than as a universal offering.
The preschool initiative will be in stiff competition with aid requests from elementary and secondary schools as well as higher education institutions trying to hold down tuition. And Republicans, who control the House, have designs on substantial tax cuts.
Minnesota has a projected $1.9 billion surplus for the coming two years, igniting tensions over whether to direct it to priority programs or slash taxes.
Hours before Dayton spoke, a collection of Republican lawmakers called for across-the-board income tax cuts that would reduce the rates in all four brackets by a half-percentage point. They would kick in for tax year 2016 but wouldn't come cheap — $1.1 billion in the first 18 months alone.
"We are a little more concerned with the state of the family budget than the state of the state budget," said Sen. David Thompson, R-Lakeville.
Dayton has warned that cutting taxes so steeply would jeopardize the state's fiscal health.
"Go back a decade and look what happened," Dayton said this week, referring to a tax-cut spree in the early part of the century that was followed by a stream of deficits.
He compared it to Aesop's Fable where a lackadaisical grasshopper finds itself in sudden peril after failing to thoughtfully plan for the future. "To do it now after we had that lesson is astonishing," he said.
Dayton said earlier this week that he expects his speech in the House chamber to run about 30 minutes.
Copyright © The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
KSL's Children's Television Programming Reports, as well as its FCC public inspection file, are available for viewing during regular office hours at the KSL Broadcast House or online .
The station representative who can assist a person with disabilities with issues related to the content of the public files is Mike Dowdle, available during regular office hours at closed_captioning@ksl.com and (801) 575-5555.

