Reuters, 27 May 2015
Tax return information for about 100,000 U.S. taxpayers was illegally accessed by cyber criminals over the past four months, U.S. IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said on Tuesday, the latest in a series of data thefts that have alarmed American consumers.
From February to May, attackers sought to gain access to personal tax information 200,000 times through the agency's "Get Transcript" online application, which calls up information from previous returns, he told a news conference. About half of those attempts were successful.
The breach did not affect any IRS data outside the "Get Transcript" application, and the agency said it would strengthen its security measures.
Koskinen said he could not comment on who the attackers might be, and a criminal investigation was ongoing.
"We're confident these are not amateurs. These are actually organised crime syndicates that not only we but everyone in the financial industry are dealing with," Koskinen said.
The data theft was largely intended to steal taxpayers' information to submit fraudulent returns next year, he said.
The agency currently believes that fewer than 15,000 fraudulent returns were processed as a result of the breach, likely resulting in refunds of less than $50 million.
The IRS security problem is the latest in a string of breaches. JPMorgan Chase as well as mega-retailers Target and Home Depot have all suffered cyber-attacks .
The IRS data heft differs in that it did not involve a computer hack. Criminals used information they had gathered about individuals to access the system as it was designed to be used, the IRS said.
The agency, which will begin to send notification letters to affected taxpayers this week, will provide free credit monitoring and protection for the victims.
Koskinen said the attackers must have had a significant amount of information already about the taxpayers.
In addition to names, addresses and Social Security numbers, the attackers would have needed so-called "out of wallet" data, personal information such as a person's first car or high school mascot, he said.
Koskinen said it was possible that identity thieves could get answers to these questions from individuals' social media accounts and compile them into searchable databases.
Koskinen said the tax agency was originally alerted to the problem by unusual activity in mid-April, which marks the end of the annual tax-filing season.
© Thomson Reuters 2015


1
A hacking attack on an IRS database that exposed sensitive personal information of more than 100,000 taxpayers to fraudsters is “unacceptable,” according to a cybersecurity expert, who suggests the government is not up-to-date when it comes to safeguarding such information.
The IRS yesterday said whoever was behind the elaborate scheme to steal identities and claim fraudulent tax refunds tried to breach the online system called “Get Transcript” — where taxpayers can get returns and other filings from previous years — 200,000 times.
“It is self-evident they have a problem. A 50 percent hacking rate is beyond the reasonable bounds,” said Anthony Roman, president of Roman & Associates, a global investigation and risk management firm. “The Chinese, the Russians and the Iranians have been quite successfully attempting breaches into government networks and secured classified and private information on an ongoing basis. It would appear to me, the U.S. is somewhat behind the curve with regards to computer security. ... Fifty percent is unacceptable.”
To access the IRS system, hackers needed to provide some of the taxpayer’s information, including name, date of birth and Social Security number.
Roman said due to the size of the operation and the vast amount of data needed to carry it out, this “phishing”-style attack is likely the work of a large group of hackers and not a single rogue criminal.
IRS Commissioner John Koskinen wouldn’t say whether investigators believe the criminals are based overseas — or where they obtained enough personal information about the taxpayers to access their returns. The IRS has launched a criminal investigation. The agency’s inspector general is also investigating.
“We’re confident that these are not amateurs,” Koskinen said. “These actually are organized crime syndicates that not only we, but everybody in the financial industry are dealing with.”
Identity thieves have stepped up their efforts in recent years to claim fraudulent tax refunds. The agency estimates it paid out  $5.8 billion in fraudulent refunds to identity thieves in 2013.
“Eighty percent of the identity theft we’re dealing with and refund fraud is related to organized crime here and around the world,” Koskinen said. “These are extremely sophisticated criminals with access to a tremendous amount of data.”
The IRS said it is notifying taxpayers whose information was accessed.
Herald wire services contributed to this report.
 
© Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.

