Reuters, 27 May 2015
Tax return information for about 100,000 U.S. taxpayers was illegally accessed by cyber criminals over the past four months, U.S. IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said on Tuesday, the latest in a series of data thefts that have alarmed American consumers.
From February to May, attackers sought to gain access to personal tax information 200,000 times through the agency's "Get Transcript" online application, which calls up information from previous returns, he told a news conference. About half of those attempts were successful.
The breach did not affect any IRS data outside the "Get Transcript" application, and the agency said it would strengthen its security measures.
Koskinen said he could not comment on who the attackers might be, and a criminal investigation was ongoing.
"We're confident these are not amateurs. These are actually organised crime syndicates that not only we but everyone in the financial industry are dealing with," Koskinen said.
The data theft was largely intended to steal taxpayers' information to submit fraudulent returns next year, he said.
The agency currently believes that fewer than 15,000 fraudulent returns were processed as a result of the breach, likely resulting in refunds of less than $50 million.
The IRS security problem is the latest in a string of breaches. JPMorgan Chase as well as mega-retailers Target and Home Depot have all suffered cyber-attacks .
The IRS data heft differs in that it did not involve a computer hack. Criminals used information they had gathered about individuals to access the system as it was designed to be used, the IRS said.
The agency, which will begin to send notification letters to affected taxpayers this week, will provide free credit monitoring and protection for the victims.
Koskinen said the attackers must have had a significant amount of information already about the taxpayers.
In addition to names, addresses and Social Security numbers, the attackers would have needed so-called "out of wallet" data, personal information such as a person's first car or high school mascot, he said.
Koskinen said it was possible that identity thieves could get answers to these questions from individuals' social media accounts and compile them into searchable databases.
Koskinen said the tax agency was originally alerted to the problem by unusual activity in mid-April, which marks the end of the annual tax-filing season.
© Thomson Reuters 2015


IRS website breach gives criminals access to 100,000 taxpayers’ data
J. David Ake/Associated Press file 2014
Thives targeted an IRS system that gives taxpayers access to previous years’ tax returns.
By Stephen Ohlemacher Associated Press 
May 27, 2015
WASHINGTON — Sophisticated criminals used an online service run by the IRS to access personal tax information from more than 100,000 taxpayers, part of an elaborate scheme to steal identities and claim fraudulent tax refunds, the IRS said Tuesday.
The thieves accessed a system called ‘‘Get Transcript,’’ where taxpayers can get tax returns and other filings from previous years. In order to access the information, the thieves cleared a security screen that required knowledge about the taxpayer, including Social Security number, date of birth, tax filing status, and street address, the IRS said.
‘‘We’re confident that these are not amateurs,’’ said IRS Commissioner John Koskinen. ‘‘These actually are organized crime syndicates that not only we but everybody in the financial industry are dealing with.’’
Koskinen would not say whether investigators believe the criminals are based overseas — or where they obtained enough personal information about the taxpayers to access their returns. The IRS has launched a criminal investigation. The agency’s inspector general is also investigating.
Identity thieves, both foreign and domestic, have stepped up their efforts in recent years to claim fraudulent tax refunds. The agency estimates it paid out $5.8 billion in fraudulent refunds to identity thieves in 2013.
‘‘Eighty percent of the identity theft we’re dealing with and refund fraud is related to organized crime here and around the world,’’ Koskinen said. ‘‘These are extremely sophisticated criminals with access to a tremendous amount of data.’’
Congress is already pressing the IRS for information about the breach.
‘‘That the IRS — home to highly sensitive information on every single American and every single company doing business here at home — was vulnerable to this attack is simply unacceptable,’’ said Senator Orrin Hatch, the Utah Republican who chairs the Senate Finance Committee. ‘‘What’s more, this agency has been repeatedly warned by top government watchdogs that its data security systems are inadequate against the growing threat of international hackers and data thieves.’’
Koskinen said the agency was alerted to the thieves when technicians noticed an increase in the number of taxpayers seeking transcripts.
The IRS said they targeted the system from February to mid-May. The service has been temporarily shut down.
Taxpayers sometimes need copies of old tax returns to apply for mortgages or college aid. While the system is shut down, taxpayers can still apply for transcripts by mail.
The IRS said its main computer system, which handles tax filing submissions, remains secure.
‘‘In all, about 200,000 attempts were made from questionable e-mail domains, with more than 100,000 of those attempts successfully clearing authentication hurdles,’’ the agency said. ‘‘During this filing season, taxpayers successfully and safely downloaded a total of approximately 23 million transcripts.’’
The agency is still determining how many fraudulent tax refunds were claimed this year using information from the stolen transcripts.
Koskinen provided a preliminary estimate, saying less than $50 million was successfully claimed.
Please enter a valid email address
Thank you for subscribing to Today's Headlines!
Enjoy your first free article
You can now read 5 free articles. Get unlimited access for just 99¢.
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Want each day's news headlines delivered fresh to your
inbox every morning? Just connect with us
in one of the following ways:
Facebook
Google
or
BostonGlobe.com will never post anything without asking.
Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99¢
Sign up
Read it all, now.
Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.
Get full access today for just 99¢
Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .
Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .
Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
High-quality journalism from the region’s largest newsroom
Convenient access across all of your devices
Today’s Headlines daily newsletter
Subscriber-only access to exclusive offers, events, contests, eBooks, and more
Less than 25¢ a week
GET FULL ACCESS NOW
GET FULL ACCESS NOW

