Reuters, 27 May 2015
Tax return information for about 100,000 U.S. taxpayers was illegally accessed by cyber criminals over the past four months, U.S. IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said on Tuesday, the latest in a series of data thefts that have alarmed American consumers.
From February to May, attackers sought to gain access to personal tax information 200,000 times through the agency's "Get Transcript" online application, which calls up information from previous returns, he told a news conference. About half of those attempts were successful.
The breach did not affect any IRS data outside the "Get Transcript" application, and the agency said it would strengthen its security measures.
Koskinen said he could not comment on who the attackers might be, and a criminal investigation was ongoing.
"We're confident these are not amateurs. These are actually organised crime syndicates that not only we but everyone in the financial industry are dealing with," Koskinen said.
The data theft was largely intended to steal taxpayers' information to submit fraudulent returns next year, he said.
The agency currently believes that fewer than 15,000 fraudulent returns were processed as a result of the breach, likely resulting in refunds of less than $50 million.
The IRS security problem is the latest in a string of breaches. JPMorgan Chase as well as mega-retailers Target and Home Depot have all suffered cyber-attacks .
The IRS data heft differs in that it did not involve a computer hack. Criminals used information they had gathered about individuals to access the system as it was designed to be used, the IRS said.
The agency, which will begin to send notification letters to affected taxpayers this week, will provide free credit monitoring and protection for the victims.
Koskinen said the attackers must have had a significant amount of information already about the taxpayers.
In addition to names, addresses and Social Security numbers, the attackers would have needed so-called "out of wallet" data, personal information such as a person's first car or high school mascot, he said.
Koskinen said it was possible that identity thieves could get answers to these questions from individuals' social media accounts and compile them into searchable databases.
Koskinen said the tax agency was originally alerted to the problem by unusual activity in mid-April, which marks the end of the annual tax-filing season.
© Thomson Reuters 2015


Taxpayers Information Stolen from IRS Database
Criminals hacked the “Get Transcript” Database
POSTED: 11:10 PM CDT May 26, 2015    UPDATED: 11:12 PM CDT May 26, 2015 
UNITED STATES -
More than 100,000 tax payers information is in jeopardy. Their personal information was stolen straight from the Internal Revenue Service database.
More from KRGV
Criminals have their hands on several years of tax returns. The IRS said criminals took advantage of the agency’s online “Get Transcript” service.
Between February and May, a group successfully hacked the service about 104,000 times. The hackers got in by taking information about taxpayers they’d gotten from other sources.
They used it to correctly answer personal identity verification questions on the application. That allowed them to get information about tax accounts.
The stolen information included social security information, date of births and street addresses.
The hackers used all that information to claim the tax refunds of some 15,000 people. The theft was discovered late last week when IRS staff noticed unusual activity on the application.
Officials said the breach doesn’t involve the main IRS computer system that handles tax filing submissions.
The “Get Transcript” service was temporarily shut down. The IRS said they will be reaching out to victims and will be offering to pay for credit protection services.
advertisement
In association with:
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

