Reuters, 27 May 2015
Tax return information for about 100,000 U.S. taxpayers was illegally accessed by cyber criminals over the past four months, U.S. IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said on Tuesday, the latest in a series of data thefts that have alarmed American consumers.
From February to May, attackers sought to gain access to personal tax information 200,000 times through the agency's "Get Transcript" online application, which calls up information from previous returns, he told a news conference. About half of those attempts were successful.
The breach did not affect any IRS data outside the "Get Transcript" application, and the agency said it would strengthen its security measures.
Koskinen said he could not comment on who the attackers might be, and a criminal investigation was ongoing.
"We're confident these are not amateurs. These are actually organised crime syndicates that not only we but everyone in the financial industry are dealing with," Koskinen said.
The data theft was largely intended to steal taxpayers' information to submit fraudulent returns next year, he said.
The agency currently believes that fewer than 15,000 fraudulent returns were processed as a result of the breach, likely resulting in refunds of less than $50 million.
The IRS security problem is the latest in a string of breaches. JPMorgan Chase as well as mega-retailers Target and Home Depot have all suffered cyber-attacks .
The IRS data heft differs in that it did not involve a computer hack. Criminals used information they had gathered about individuals to access the system as it was designed to be used, the IRS said.
The agency, which will begin to send notification letters to affected taxpayers this week, will provide free credit monitoring and protection for the victims.
Koskinen said the attackers must have had a significant amount of information already about the taxpayers.
In addition to names, addresses and Social Security numbers, the attackers would have needed so-called "out of wallet" data, personal information such as a person's first car or high school mascot, he said.
Koskinen said it was possible that identity thieves could get answers to these questions from individuals' social media accounts and compile them into searchable databases.
Koskinen said the tax agency was originally alerted to the problem by unusual activity in mid-April, which marks the end of the annual tax-filing season.
© Thomson Reuters 2015


Please Wait 20 Seconds...
IRS says hackers stole tax information from 100,000 Americans
Cyber-thieves have used an online service provided by the IRS to steal information from over 100,000 taxpayers, the government agency said on Tuesday.
The information included tax returns and other tax information held on file by the IRS.
Hackers steal sensitive tax data
The IRS says the hackers accessed a computer system called “Get Transcript”. To access the information, the hackers cleared a special security system that required knowledge about the individual taxpayers, such as social security number, date of birth, tax filing status and their street address.
“The IRS notes this issue does not involve its main computer system that handles tax filing submission; that system remains secure,” the agency said in a statement released this week.
The IRS says the thieves targeted the system between February and May, and it has now been shut down temporarily.
“In all, about 200,000 attempts were made from questionable email domains, with more than 100,000 of those attempts successfully clearing authentication hurdles,” the agency said. “During this filing season, taxpayers successfully and safely downloaded a total of approximately 23 million transcripts”.
Tax returns of course include lots of personal information that can be used by hackers to steal someone’s identity, such as social security numbers, and birthdays of spouses and dependents. The IRS has said however that the thieves already had a lot of personal information about their victims.
The IRS is said to be notifying taxpayers whose information was accessed.
Related articles
TV Licence & Council Tax Dodgers Face Arrest At UK Airports Travellers departing from the…
Related Posts
Like StreetWise Journal on Facebook
OUR TOP STORIES
May 21, 2015 4:02 am
Publishing times are Eastern time UTC -5:00
Categories
March 30, 2015

