Reuters, 27 May 2015
Tax return information for about 100,000 U.S. taxpayers was illegally accessed by cyber criminals over the past four months, U.S. IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said on Tuesday, the latest in a series of data thefts that have alarmed American consumers.
From February to May, attackers sought to gain access to personal tax information 200,000 times through the agency's "Get Transcript" online application, which calls up information from previous returns, he told a news conference. About half of those attempts were successful.
The breach did not affect any IRS data outside the "Get Transcript" application, and the agency said it would strengthen its security measures.
Koskinen said he could not comment on who the attackers might be, and a criminal investigation was ongoing.
"We're confident these are not amateurs. These are actually organised crime syndicates that not only we but everyone in the financial industry are dealing with," Koskinen said.
The data theft was largely intended to steal taxpayers' information to submit fraudulent returns next year, he said.
The agency currently believes that fewer than 15,000 fraudulent returns were processed as a result of the breach, likely resulting in refunds of less than $50 million.
The IRS security problem is the latest in a string of breaches. JPMorgan Chase as well as mega-retailers Target and Home Depot have all suffered cyber-attacks .
The IRS data heft differs in that it did not involve a computer hack. Criminals used information they had gathered about individuals to access the system as it was designed to be used, the IRS said.
The agency, which will begin to send notification letters to affected taxpayers this week, will provide free credit monitoring and protection for the victims.
Koskinen said the attackers must have had a significant amount of information already about the taxpayers.
In addition to names, addresses and Social Security numbers, the attackers would have needed so-called "out of wallet" data, personal information such as a person's first car or high school mascot, he said.
Koskinen said it was possible that identity thieves could get answers to these questions from individuals' social media accounts and compile them into searchable databases.
Koskinen said the tax agency was originally alerted to the problem by unusual activity in mid-April, which marks the end of the annual tax-filing season.
© Thomson Reuters 2015


May 27 2015 at 07:01am
Supplied File photo
Hackers stole information on 100 000 taxpayers from the online computers of the US Internal Revenue Service, the federal tax agency said Tuesday.
The IRS said the unidentified cyber thieves used information on the specific taxpayers from sources outside the agency to access the accounts, which included crucial identifying information such as birth dates, addresses and social security numbers.
“These third parties gained sufficient information from an outside source before trying to access the IRS site, which allowed them to clear a multi-step authentication process, including several personal verification questions that typically are only known by the taxpayer,” the agency said.
The IRS said the theft involved its online “Get Transcript” system, which allows users to view all their transactions and reports with the agency.
The hackers tried to access about 200 000 accounts between February and mid-May, and were successful in about half those attempts.
The IRS said the “Get Transcript” service is on a separate computer system than the one that handles online tax submissions for millions of Americans each year.
“That system remains secure,” it said.
It said it has shut down the “Get Transcript” service, and its inspector general and criminal investigation offices were reviewing the case.
It did not identify the source of the information that allowed hackers to enter the accounts.
The agency is notifying owners of all 200 000 accounts to warn them about the hacking and provide free credit monitoring for those whose accounts were entered.
“It's possible that some of these transcript accesses were made with an eye toward using them for identity theft for next year's tax season.”
AFP
Login and register, if you haven’ t already.
Write your comment in the block below and click (Post As)
Has a comment offended you? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side. Click triangle (
) and select "Flag as inappropriate". Our moderators will take action if need be.
Verified email addresses: All users on Independent Media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles. You are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles. For more information please read our comment guidelines  
Business Directory
You are here: IOL / News / World / Hackers steal info on US taxpayers
We like to make your life easier

