Featured
Featured
Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By KASEY JONES Associated Press
04/03/2015 8:02 PM
04/03/2015 8:02 PM
Brady, 73, died in a retirement community in Alexandria, Virginia, after battling pneumonia, family members said in an email.
Brady's husband, former White House Press Secretary James Brady, died Aug. 4, also at the age of 73.
The 1981 assassination attempt on Reagan by John Hinckley Jr. left James Brady partially paralyzed.
Four years later, Sarah Brady became involved in gun control. She chaired Handgun Control Inc., which was renamed the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence as a tribute to the Bradys. The Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act was signed into law in 1993 by President Bill Clinton.
"Sarah courageously stepped up after Jim was shot to prevent others from enduring what our family has gone through, and her work has saved countless lives," the family's statement said. "Sarah was a voice of strength, love and encouragement, and she inspired others, showing that one person could make a difference and change the world — which she did."
Dan Gross, president of Brady Campaign, called Sarah Brady "its guiding light."
"There are countless people walking around today who would not be were it not for Sarah Brady's remarkable resilience, compassion," Gross said.
Nancy Reagan, Ronald Reagan's widow, recalled the immediate aftermath of the assassination attempt.
In a statement emailed by the Reagan Foundation, she wrote: "Just over 34 years ago, we shared an experience that bonded us for life, as we comforted each other in a tiny, windowless office at the George Washington University Hospital Emergency Room, while awaiting word about whether our husbands would survive the horrific gunshots that had brought them there."
Reagan also called Brady "a woman of immense courage, strength and optimism."
Related
Related
Nation & World Videos
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

