Miley Cyrus posts US Senator's phone number in angry gay rights protest
The pop singer wants to 'stir s**t up' in the wake of Tom Cotton's comments
Jess Denham reports on Arts + Entertainment for The Independent website
Your email address
Note: We do not store your email address(es) but your IP address will be logged to prevent abuse of this feature. Please read our Legal Terms & Policies
Miley Cyrus has tweeted the phone number of a US Senator after taking offence at recent comments made about the gay community.
The “Wrecking Ball” singer decided to “stir some s**t up” when she was angered by Tom Cotton’s CNN interview with Wolf Blitzer, in which he raised the controversial issue of gay rights.
“I think it’s important we have a sense of perspective about our priorities,” the Arkansas Senator said. “In Iran, they hang you for the crime of being gay. They’re currently imprisoning an American preached for spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ in Iran. We should focus on the most important priorities that our country faces right now.”
Cotton was discussing Indiana’s divisive Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which passed into law earlier this week. Many people have voiced concern that business owners could now legally use religion to justify discrimination against minorities.
Cyrus took exception to his remarks and posted his office number to her 19.4 million Twitter followers, encouraging “happy hippies” to “call and express why freedom is important to us and our country”.
Let's stir some shit up! Senator Cotton (202) 224-2353 !!!! Happy Hippies call & express why freedom is important to us & our country!
The 22-year-old opposes the bill because she has “dedicated [her] life to being whoever it is that [she] wants to be”. “If you don’t choose to live that way, you’re not going to last in this generation because we are overtaking you,” she said.
“They are dinosaurs and they are dying off. We are the new generation and with that will come so much.
 
The act has now been changed so that people cannot be discriminated against based on gender or sexual orientation.
Cyrus has long been an active gay rights campaigner and has an equal sign tattooed onto her ring finger in support of same-sex marriage.
News
News
News
News
News
1
SPONSORED FEATURES
 
Was Judas wrongfully condemned?
Without the betrayal, there could have been no crucifixion - and no redemption. Was the apostle whose name is a byword for betrayal actually history’s greatest scapegoat? On Easter Sunday, Peter Stanford reconsiders the evidence
Little bang theory
Cern plans a second series of experiments aimed at revolutionising our understanding of the Universe
General Election 2015
It isn't what the candidates say, it's the way that they say it...
A young prince may cost Syria and Yemen dear
As the US and Iran reach accord, Saudi Arabia endangers the status quo in the Middle East, says Patrick Cockburn
'My escape from Islamic State captors'
Abducted, locked away, all but starved, raped… then, a dramatic escape
The theory of every chin
Bristly, dimpled or like a lantern, why did humans evolve to have a facial punctuation mark?
Kate Hamer: My, what big prospects you've got
The first-time novelist's 21st-century Little Red Riding Hood is tipped to be a best-seller
Cynthia Lennon's death reminds us that artistic genius is no guarantee of decency
All the arts turn out to harbour some of the greatest spouse abusers and child neglecters, says DJ Taylor
Fatherly advice from a paternity-leave veteran
As legislation encouraging dads to take a greater share of parental leave comes into force today, Mike Higgins shares the wisdom he gleaned from three months spent in charge of his daughters
Bill Granger's Easter chocolate fantasies
Our chef has been on a health kick all year - but just for today, he's going to forget that
The tide has finally turned for Britain's female rowers
The Boat Race for both sexes will get equal billing for the first time next Saturday, in a timely victory for fairness
Michael Calvin's Last Word
General Election TV debates
Yemen crisis
What will Saudi Arabia do when – not if – things go wrong in their war with the Shia Houthi rebels, asks Robert Fisk
A pilot shares his passion for flying
It has been hard to feel positive about air travel in recent days. But while the horror of Germanwings Flight 9525 will stay with us, to fear flying is to miss one of the wonders of the modern age

