NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Out of the Loop at the French Open, and Liking It That Way
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
Sloane Stephens, right, and Venus Williams on Monday. “Don’t tell me who I play,” Stephens said to a reporter after a victory in March. Credit Miguel Medina/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
Advertisement
PARIS — The social media age is also the age of the spoiler alert. Surprise movie endings and abrupt plot twists could all be lurking in a timeline.
For many a professional tennis player, the dangers are even greater. Log on or scroll down at the wrong time in the wrong place and you might find out your draw — which, as anyone who knows tennis players can confirm, is often a no-go zone.
Serena Williams , Petra Kvitova, Victoria Azarenka, Sloane Stephens and Milos Raonic are among those who like to avoid the news as long as possible.
“I get stressed out,” Williams said Tuesday night after beating Andrea Hlavackova, 6-2, 6-3, in the first round of the French Open .
Others, like Andy Murray or Madison Keys, have no qualms about breaking down the possibilities. After Friday’s French Open draw, Murray, the British star, expounded at length on his half of the draw: the potential match between Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic in the quarterfinals; the looming threats of David Ferrer, Nick Kyrgios, John Isner and David Goffin.
“If I had said nothing about it, I would have got told very quickly what my draw was,” Murray said. “I have realized that it’s pointless trying to keep it secret.”
Others beat on, boats against the current of information, and it is clearly easier for those who are not yet stars, and not yet summoned to post-draw news conferences, to keep themselves in the dark.
“I don’t go on Facebook, and I have my agent handle my Facebook page,” said Irina Falconi, an unseeded American player who advanced to the second round of the French Open on Tuesday. “Anytime I get a mention on Twitter, I don’t get notifications.”
Although Keys has started avoiding Twitter during tournaments in an effort to limit distractions, she said she did not mind looking at an entire draw. She ran into Falconi on Tuesday after Falconi had won.
“I just asked Irina who she played next round, and she’s like: ‘I don’t know; I don’t look at the draw,’ ” Keys said, throwing up her hands in mock self-defense. “I was like: ‘O.K., sorry. I don’t know who you play, either. I won’t tell you.’ ”
Advertisement
Avoiding the draw is often about superstition, but Falconi said her approach was designed to keep her focused on the present.
“My future opponent could sprain an ankle,” she said. “It doesn’t matter who you play next. It’s got to be point by point. There’s this movie and book called ‘Peaceful Warrior.’ What time is it? It’s this moment. It doesn’t matter what happens after. So that’s my philosophy. Like today in my match, my coach said, ‘Keep fighting,’ and I was like, no. Whatever happened has already happened. It’s about now. Now is a new moment. Let’s go from here. Let’s fight, not keep fighting.”
Raonic, the big-serving Canadian, agrees with that approach. “We are pretty much the only sport that plays 11 months out of the year,” he said in an interview last week after withdrawing from the French Open after foot surgery. “When you start really getting that kind of stuff in your head, stuff out of your control, it ends up tiring you out mentally. So for me, there’s no need to waste energy or stress over something that is beyond you. I think it is really important as a tennis player to focus on what you can control, because we have so many instances and factors that are out of our hands.”
Advertisement
Tennis players have avoided looking at draws for as long as there have been draws to look at. The draws were once posted exclusively on paper, usually on a locker room wall at a tournament. Then came the fax machine.
But the era of screen time is a much more challenging time. Dominika Cibulkova, missing the French Open this year as she works her way back from surgery, said she tried to navigate social media during a tournament but would “quickly click away” if she saw a posting that might address whom she would play later in the tournament.
“It’s not as hard as you might think,” she said. “I can click pretty fast.”
Kvitova said she started avoiding the Internet during events last year. “I could go into social media, but I click on the Facebook button, don’t follow for this moment,” Kvitova said. “But of course somebody can tell me something about the draw.”
That can have its downside for the messengers. Williams recently cut short a news conference in Madrid when a reporter gave her too much information about her section of the draw.
Or consider this news conference exchange involving Stephens, who had just reached the quarterfinals, at the Miami tournament in March.
Reporter: “Can you kind of describe your feelings about getting to the quarterfinal?”
Stephens: “Don’t tell me who I play.”
Reporter: “We don’t know yet.”
Stephens: “Don’t tell me.”
The most common strain of avoidance behavior is not to look too deeply into a draw, but Stephens does not even like to know whom she is playing next. “As far as I know, not until the day of the match,” said John Tobias, Stephens’s agent.
That might seem like a tactical disadvantage, but she is in fine company with Williams, a 19-time Grand Slam singles champion.
“If I figure out who I’m going to play in the first round, then I focus my game too much without even trying,” Williams said. “I’m like, Oh, her forehand is bigger, or her backhand is bigger. And I will just hit every shot there. Next thing you know, in Round 5 or Round 3, I’m like, I practiced too much to cater to that one person. I feel like, for me, I can play anyone as long as I’m focused on myself, and I just go for that.”
The result is an unusual routine in which her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, will scout an opponent but mention nothing to Williams about her identity or the right tactics until about 30 minutes before the match.
“It’s clear in her head that way,” he said Tuesday. “There’s no stress the night before, no overthinking the problem. I’ve never had a player like this before, but I actually think it’s a good idea. But she only does it for the first round.”
Or does she? On Tuesday night, with her first-round victory complete, the time came for the last question, and a reporter piped up, “What do you think about your next opponent?”
Williams’s answer: “I don’t know about her, and if you could do me a favor, you don’t have to tell me about her. Thank you.”
For the record, Williams (spoiler alert) plays Anna-Lena Friedsam of Germany.
Loading...


Breaking
Unfair Trade
May 26, 2015 10:43 IST
PARIS Former world number one Venus Williams suffered another early French Open exit when she was beaten 7-6(5) 6-1 by fellow American Sloane Stephens in the first round on Monday.
It was not a major surprise though as Stephens has reached the fourth round of the claycourt grand slam in the past three years. She will face Briton Heather Watson next.
Seven-times grand slam champion Williams, whose best result in Paris is a runner-up spot in 2002 but had not gone past the second round in the last four years, made the better start, opening a 2-0 lead but Stephens proved more accurate.
The 22-year-old broke back and sent the opening set into a tiebreak, which she easily won as her opponent, whom she had never met, netted a forehand.
The 34-year-old Williams never recovered and looked short of energy in the second set as Stephens raced to a 3-0 lead and never looked back, ending the baseline contest with an ace.
"I feel like I had some good practices coming into Roland Garros but sometimes things don't always work out the way you would like," said Williams.
Stephens's biggest fright of the match came in the second game of the second set, when a pigeon came down flying past her as she was about to receive a serve.
"First of all, I didn't know what it was," an amused Stephens, who reached the semi-finals at the Strasbourg Internationals last week, told a news conference.
"I thought it was way closer to me than it actually was. So that was why I screamed so loud. And I don't know, in the moment, things just happen and it was just scary and I was like, ahhh and a scream came out.
"And then she probably wasn't happy because she probably would have hit an ace and it was just a weird moment."
(Reporting by Julien Pretot; Editing by Martyn Herman and Justin Palmer)
This story has not been edited by Firstpost staff and is generated by auto-feed.
more in Politics
shareworthy
Plus
Others

