Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Ex-LAPD officer wanted in killing arrested in Mexico
MEXICO CITY (AP) — A fugitive former Los Angeles police officer charged with killing a man during an off-duty fight was arrested Tuesday in northern Mexico, officials said.
Post to Facebook
Ex-LAPD officer wanted in killing arrested in Mexico MEXICO CITY (AP) — A fugitive former Los Angeles police officer charged with killing a man during an off-duty fight was arrested Tuesday in northern Mexico, officials said. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvpQ1A
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Ex-LAPD officer wanted in killing arrested in Mexico
AP 12:22 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
In this photo provided by Mexico's attorney general's office, fugitive former Los Angeles police officer Henry Solis, 27, is seen after he was captured by Mexican security forces in the border city of Ciudad Juarez, May 26, 2015.
(Photo: Mexico's Attorney Generals Office)
MEXICO CITY (AP) — A fugitive former Los Angeles police officer charged with killing a man during an off-duty fight was arrested Tuesday in northern Mexico, officials said.
Henry Solis, 27, was captured by security forces in Ciudad Juarez, across the border from El Paso, Texas, the Chihuahua state attorney general's office said. The arrest was made thanks to an exchange of information with U.S. authorities and intelligence work, it said.
"Henry Solis will be put at the disposition of Mexico's migration office so that he can be handed over to the appropriate authorities," a statement from the office said.
Solis, who was a probationary LAPD officer, is wanted in the shooting death of Salome Rodriguez, 23, outside a nightclub in Pomona, California on March 13. Investigators said the two had gotten into a dispute in the club.
Solis' father was later arrested and charged in a federal court in El Paso with making false statements to FBI agents to help his son escape to Mexico.
According to an affidavit from an FBI agent, on the day of the killing, Solis called his father's home and a short time later the elder Solis left in a hurry.
In an FBI interview, Victor Solis said his son claimed to have five days of vacation and wanted to go to El Paso.
The elder Solis said he drove his son to El Paso, where he dropped him at a bus station early on March 14 and didn't see him again.
Victor Solis also claimed he later crossed the border into Mexico alone but surveillance video captured him crossing with his son, according to the affidavit.
A $25,000 reward had been offered for information leading to the arrest of Henry Solis.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1HvpQ1A
TOP VIDEOS
May 26, 2015

