Microsoft is going to infiltrate iPhones and Android models with its own voice assistant. Above, the Microsoft logo seen in San Francisco, California. Microsoft on September 30, 2014. Photo by: Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty Images
Do you have room in your heart for more than one smartphone voice assistant? How about just on your phone?
Microsoft announced Tuesday that it will be giving Apple's Siri and Google's, um, Google,  some competition on their home turfs by building iOS and Android versions of its own Cortana assistant.
The move is in line with Microsoft's latest strategy f or expanding its customer base. The company's not trying to lure consumers to its own phones, but rather trying to put new, exciting and -- dare we say? -- cool software on competing devices as well.
In some ways, that's a pure survival tactic. According to numbers released Tuesday , Microsoft's Windows Phone platform is forecast to have just 3.2 percent of the world market by the end of 2015, though analysts to predict that it will grow to just over 5 percent by 2019.
So why would you want Cortana on your Galaxy or iPhone? The voice assistant is designed to work with Windows PCs as well, which is probably the way most people currently interact with Microsoft products. That means your work PC can send reminders to your iPhone or vice versa, as well as being able to do all the normal voice assistant stuff, such as telling you how high Mount Everest is or how many teaspoons are in a tablespoon.*
Since every Windows 7,  Windows 8 and Windows 8.1 user will be eligible to upgrade their system to Windows 10 for free when it launches -- well, for a year, anyway -- that gives Cortana a huge potential audience.
The company said it will release the Cortana app for Android phones at the end of June, with the iPhone launch pegged for "later this year."
 
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!

