Featured
Featured
Latest Headlines
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By GEOFF MULVIHILL Associated Press
04/09/2015 3:50 PM
04/09/2015 3:50 PM
A New Jersey appeals court ruled Thursday that Gov. Chris Christie's administration may not seize money that towns had set aside for affordable housing projects, the latest housing-related court ruling to go against the governor.
Since 2012, Christie had been trying to use for the state budget money that towns had charged developers for affordable housing projects but had not spent or committed to spend.
Affordable housing advocates and local governments — group that are often at odds — objected to the plans. A core part of their argument was that the state Council on Affordable Housing was not approving communities' spending plans — and without state approval, the money could not be spent.
A 2008 state law said towns that didn't commit to spending their funds on approved plans within four years could be forced to forfeit the money. But according to legal filings, the council has approved just two towns' plans since 2012.
The three-judge panel court ruling Thursday agreed with the advocates and town governments.
The Fair Share Housing Center says the decision will mean towns can spend a total of nearly $200 million on housing. "Thousands of homes will be built and rehabilitated using these funds," center lawyer Kevin Walsh said in a statement.
A spokesman for Christie, a Republican, did not immediately return a message seeking comment on the ruling. It is not clear whether the state may appeal to the state Supreme Court.
But that court has not been friendly recently to the administration's take on affordable housing policy.
It ruled in March that judges would take over the job of deciding how much housing for low- and moderate-income residents each town is responsible for having and determining whether its plans to do it are acceptable.
Under Thursday's decision, the judges are also to be given say over whether towns can spend money in their affordable housing trust funds.
Follow Us
Oops, you haven't selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops, you didn't provide a valid email address. Please double-check the email field and submit again.
Sign up for email newsletters
5-Minute Herald (Monday - Friday) The best of the morning's Miami Herald.
Afternoon Update (Monday - Friday) Latest news, plus the afternoon business & national news.
News Alert (When it happens) the first to know when big news breaks.
Business (Monday - Friday) Keep up with local business news and small business advice.
Americas (Monday - Friday) Our best source for news and opinion on Cuba and the Americas.
Political Currents (Monday - Friday) Keep up with the latest in politics - in Florida, the nation, Latin America and the Caribbean.
Family Fare (Wednesdays) Have a family? Then this is your source for family friendly events, education news, health news and other important topics that parents need to know.
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

