Florida's fundraising explosion
The Sunshine State is a gold mine for more than just Jeb and Marco.
In his announcement at Miami’s Freedom Tower on April 13, Marco Rubio is expected not only to officially join the race for the presidency but the race for donor dollars in his native Florida.
It’s a race that many expect his fellow Floridian Jeb Bush to win hands down. But while Bush has signed up mega donors to cut checks for his super PAC from the area, there are tens of millions more Florida dollars for the taking that Rubio and the rest of the GOP field are fighting over.
Story Continued Below
Indeed, the Sunshine State is steadily growing as a fundraising mecca. It was the second-largest source of money for Republicans among all states in the 2012 presidential cycle, dumping in $31 million. And it’s expected to give far more in 2016. And unlike New York, California, and Massachusetts, where dollars flow in predictable channels to candidates with certain attributes, Florida’s money follows as twisty a path as an Everglades river, creating fund-raising opportunities for candidates of all stripes.
Rubio has an April 7 fundraiser for his leadership PAC and campaign committee in Tallahassee with lobbyists and pro-Israel backers associated with Las Vegas gambling magnate Sheldon Adelson. A source close to Adelson and the lobbyist associated with him who arranged the event, Nick Iarossi, say the fundraiser is no reflection on Adelson’s interest in the race.
But Rubio is hardly alone in tapping Florida’s wide open checkbooks. Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker is making regular forays in hopes of locking up key donors like Stanley and Gay Gaines and billionaire donors Frayda and George Lindemann. New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie recently picked up Meredith O’Rourke, finance director for Florida Gov. Rick Scott, and held a meet-and-greet in Jupiter, Florida, put together by Home Depot founder Ken Langone. Another Scott ally, former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, made a recent stop to raise funds for a Jacksonville mayoral candidate, and many expect he’ll soon be back to collect checks for himself.
This may be a surprise to some people in and out of the campaigns who expected that Bush’s only competition for Florida dollars would be his home-state rival, Rubio. But in just the last few years, the state has seen a sharp influx of wealthy entrepreneurs of varying stripes, from liberals to libertarians to Wall Street-oriented conservatives.
“The traditional businesses that funded Florida politics were the real estate, homebuilders and farmers. That’s what you relied on. Now it’s entrepreneurs. Investment bankers. The model you see now is folks who have made a pile of money who could live anywhere – well many of them want to live here,” said Brian Ballard, a Tallahassee lobbyist and fundraiser for Mitt Romney and Rick. Scott.
While Florida is a huge draw for wealthy retirees because it has no income tax, the state has also seen an increasingly diversified economic boom. Areas like Boca Raton have a growing financial services cluster and Jacksonville continues to be an insurance hub. Such highly regulated industries are known to spread their money around.
Meanwhile, Palm Beach is still the winter home for Wall Street’s elite and old Greenwich money. And parts of Palm Beach County, along with Miami, have a significant share of pro-Israel money, which Democrats tap as well.
Miami and South Florida are a rich target for Democrats because they’re home to trial lawyers, gay-rights donors and liberal-leaning celebrities. Miami is a also must-stop on the GOP fundraising circuit because of its position as a Latin American capital. It’s awash in investor and entrepreneur money, especially from GOP-leaning Cuban exiles, like Coral Gables health executive Mike Fernandez, who held a $5 million fundraiser for Bush earlier this month.
Fernandez has pledged $1 million to Bush’s super PAC, something he did for Mitt Romney and Scott in prior elections.
“More and more people are not ashamed of giving. The Koch brothers lead the way,” Ballard said. “Before, they could write a $2,500 check. Now they can write a $1 million check. As a fundraiser, that makes things a lot easier. If one person gives you $100,000, it saves you 40 calls to donors to give $2,500 each…. Or if you’re trying to raise $1 million, that saves you 400 calls.”
Florida donors have become more accustomed to giving big amounts because it costs so much to run ads for a statewide campaign in Florida, which has 10 major TV media markets that run the gamut from Spanish-language TV in Miami to the Midwestern sensibilities of Naples to the Deep South culture of Jacksonville, Pensacola and Tallahassee.
In the 2014 federal elections, Florida had only two competitive congressional seats and no contested U.S. Senate seat in November, but it still ranked seventh as a source of funds for various races throughout the country, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Yet Florida’s governor’s race was the nation’s most expensive last year, costing about $170 million. With Scott accounting for almost two-thirds of the total, he and Democrat Charlie Crist’s campaign spent more than $100 million on TV. Crist’s campaign estimated that Scott was burning $1,200 per minute on TV ads by Halloween.
Getty
The big money and close margins are also a sign of an overall national trend that indicate the rising cost and intensity of campaigns.
“I cohosted an event for President Clinton when he was a sitting president. We raised $100,000 and we were thrilled,” said John Morgan, a major Democratic donor who runs the Morgan & Morgan trial lawyer firm in Orlando. “In this day and time Paul Begala’s speaking fee is $100,000,” Morgan said, referring to one of the Clintons’ top allies and advisers.
The Obama campaign saw Florida, and particularly Miami-Dade County, as a fertile ground for organizing more voters as the minority population grew in the area, which also boasted four wealthy Democratic constituencies for fundraising: Jewish donors, trial lawyers, entertainment figures and LGBT donors.
In the 2008 cycle, for instance, Miami fundraising king Chris Korge hosted an event for Hillary Clinton that featured his next-door neighbor, rap producer Timbaland. In 2012, Korge held another one without Timbaland for President Obama, who headlined a 2010 fundraiser at the Miami home of singer Gloria Estefan.
“I’ve raised more money selling pictures at these events where rich people want to be photographed with the president than I ever have selling any measure of access to any politician I’ve fundraised for,” said a Miami-area fundraiser and lobbyist who didn’t want to be identified. “Florida has so much money these days.”
With two homegrown politicians in the 2016 race, Florida could well lead the nation as a source of GOP money. Both Rubio and Bush have long had personal relationships with many of the biggest donors, particularly in the Miami area.
“There’s a cultural donor class down there who provide an awful lot of resources and money and support for candidates, but you have to know how to talk to them and who they are,” said Florida GOP consultant Rick Wilson. “Jeb and Marco have a great deal of fluency with those people because they both are known quantities.”
The two are also fluent in Spanish, unlike their rivals. They live about a five-minute drive from each other in the nation’s largest Spanish-speaking county, which is at the front line of Hispanic-voter outreach. The area is the only place in the United States that hosts three Republican Hispanic members of congress from majority-Hispanic districts.
But while Miami is Bush and Rubio country, other pockets of the state are more-hospitable to the other candidates. Christie’s recent Palm Beach County trip and his ability to snag Scott’s fundraiser, O’Rourke, is evidence of that. As chairman of the Republican Governors Association, Christie helped steer $18.5 million to Scott in the last election. Perry also fundraised for Scott. And Walker’s aggressively trying to recruit Florida talent and dollars.
Still, most of the money is going to Bush and then Rubio. Miami billionaire Norman Braman, a longtime Rubio supporter, is reportedly ready to put as much as $10 million towards a super PAC supporting his homestate senator. Braman wouldn’t confirm or deny that amount.
Though he’s among the mega donors increasing their contributing activity, Braman points out Florida has long been a “gold mine” for candidates.
“This has been a feeding area for so many years now –especially at this time of year,” Braman said. “What you have in Palm Beach and down here in Miami is people who come down for the winter or fly down every weekend. It’s a frenzy.”
But to everything, there is a season. And that’s true even for Florida. After the fall, winter and spring months, fundraising falls as the humidity and threat of hurricanes rise.
Said Braman: “It won’t be this way in June, July, August or September.”
Authors:

