Comment
Updated at 9:37 PM
Updated at 9:37 PM
»  Social News
VICTORVILLE — Fresh from a recent trip to Tel-Aviv where he toured Israeli missile defense systems, Rep. Paul Cook on Tuesday reiterated his concerns about the emerging Iranian nuclear deal in a speech dominated by his thoughts on the volatility facing the Middle East.
“This is serious business; it’s much more than politics,” Cook, R-Apple Valley, told Victorville Rotary Club members. “This is what we have to deal with. I’m going to apologize, because obviously these things have been lingering in my mind since I just got back from this trip.”
Cook, who serves on both the Armed Services and Foreign Affairs committees, said that if the Iranians were allowed to develop nuclear weapons, it could be a catalyst for other nearby countries, including Saudia Arabia and United Arab Emirates, to develop or buy their own.
Cook has been critical of the framework of a deal between Iran and the U.S. and other world powers that he said would do nothing to block Iran’s ability to have nuclear weapons.
“You’ve got to send the right signals, you’ve got to be unified,” he said. “And I’m sorry, I just cannot trust a country that has had such a history of supporting groups like Hezbollah.”
Cook was adamant that he was not advocating for boots on the ground, but instead for leaders in Washington to work together in making tough decisions.
During the roughly 30-minute informal address, Cook again lauded Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Cook also said he was convinced that Russian President Vladimir Putin will attempt a full Ukraine takeover in an effort to reestablish the Russian empire.
Shea Johnson may be reached at 760-955-5368 or SJohnson@VVDailyPress.com. Follow him on Twitter at @DP_Shea.
By Shea Johnson
Updated at 9:37 PM
» Comment or view comments  
»  STAY INFORMED
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
calendar
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
VVdailypress.com | 13891 Park Ave, Victorville, CA, 92392

