Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Cylvia Hayes' 2012 letter tackled 'confusing' dual role -- long after it began
In letter dated November 2012 released as part of the big email release by Gov. Kate Brown Friday, former first lady Cylvia Hayes explained the "confusing" dual roles caused by her fellowship with the Clean Economy Development Center -- and suggested her first lady work had taken back seat.
News of the fellowship, which paid her $118,000, did not break publicly until January 2015. The job was arranged by a longtime associate of hers and Kitzhaber's, Dan Carol, who then was hired by the former governor for a salary of $165,000.
The letter is significant for several reasons. The letter indicates that confusion in the governor's office over her blurred roles had already surfaced in 2012, and that her outside pay from the development center was known to the governor's office at least in November of that year. But despite early public promises by Kitzhaber's office that he'd set up safeguards to prevent conflicts, documents released earlier suggest her work for the center never went through a formal conflict of interest review.
Also interesting is that her fellowship began more than a year before, but her letter suggests her work for CEDC was a new thing. "I have taken a fellowship with the Clean Economy Development Center, a 501c3 organization."
But if the letter's date is correct, her work for CEDC began more than a year before. According to the Energy Foundation, which helped fund the fellowship, it began in September 2011. On an early Hayes' public bio , she says her work for CEDC began in February 2011.
The fellowship, she wrote, focused on her work on energy-related issues for a "collaboration of West Coast states," an apparent reference to an organization that had already become a major focus of the Kitzhaber administration, the Pacific Coast Collaborative.
The letter follows:
Subject:  Description of professional and public activities.
My combined roles as a clean economy professional and First Lady of Oregon can be confusing so I offer this letter as explanation.
The Challenge of a Unique Situation:
I have 24 years of professional expertise in clean energy, sustainable economic development and climate change issues and opportunities.  Currently I am probably most well-known as founder and CEO of 3EStrategies LLC, a clean economy consulting firm.  I specialize in developing effective clean energy, green building and green jobs policy and in serving as a writer and spokesperson.  
At this point in my life, however, I do not think that my highest and best use is consulting for specific clients.  Rather I believe my most significant contribution lies in the opportunity to educate, motivate and catalyze progress toward a sustainable economy.  And so, I have put 3EStrategies on hold.
Unfortunately, as I am not independently wealthy and need to support myself, I cannot afford not to earn a paycheck while I am in this complicated situation.  And Oregon State ethics laws prevent me from being paid for my work as First Lady.  Therefore, to make the most of this opportunity to drive positive clean economy change I need to have a vehicle that allows me to pay my bills while maximizing my professional expertise and unique position.  
My Professional Position:
As a natural extension of my professional clean economy communications work and policy expertise I have taken a fellowship with the Clean Economy Development Center, a 501c3 organization.  Through this fellowship I am working to accelerate clean economy development with a special emphasis on the unique links between ocean health and the emerging clean economy.  I am also working to advance clean economy developments through a collaboration of West Coast states.  The fellowship is foundation-funded and pays my salary and professional travel expenses.  
This is a significant portfolio and consumes the bulk of my time.  However, I also have undertaken some duties in the role of First Lady of Oregon.  This is unpaid work and is not a part of the fundraising efforts and documents accompanying this letter.  
First Lady Position:
In my role as First Lady I am working on poverty by leading the Oregon Prosperity Initiative.  In this work I am raising awareness about the crisis of poverty in Oregon and what can be done about it.  I am also leading a team in developing the first comprehensive poverty reduction plan in state history.  
Finally, I also perform certain, more traditional, First Lady activities including hosting events at the residence, attending events with the Governor, standing in for the Governor at certain events.  However, I am careful to keep a lid on these types of activities so that I can focus on my Clean Economy Fellowship projects.  
How it All Comes Together:
I understand that the mosaic of my work activities is a bit complicated.  However, my approach to all of this work is integrated.  I see all three issues -- clean economy development, ocean health and poverty reduction -- as critical components in the evolution of an economic system that builds fiscal capital along with natural and social capital.  
Bringing about such an evolved, sustainable economy is the focus of my life's work.  Additionally, my twenty plus years' experience as a social entrepreneur have prepared me well for effectively juggling big issues in dynamic situations.
Thank you for your interest and support.
Sincerely,
Keep tabs on the people who represent your interests in Salem and Washington, D.C.
© 2015 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

