Local control at odds with proposed statewide rules for Uber, Lyft
1/1
Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/Agence France-Presse
Dallas and other cities have revamped their ride-hailing service rules of late, in response to the booming popularity of Lyft and Uber (app pictured).
Updated:
09 April 2015 10:55 PM
AUSTIN — The vehicle-for-hire rules crafted by the city of Dallas last year in a laborious, months-long process would be effectively wiped out under legislation House members heard Thursday.
A bill offered by Rep. Chris Paddie, R-Marshall, would instead create statewide regulations for “transportation network companies” like Uber and Lyft. The Department of Motor Vehicles would administer the rules, which wouldn’t apply to cabs and limos.
The effort has drawn the usual debate between newer companies and taxicab stalwarts — and the tension is heightened by the huge sums of money both sides are spending to lobby lawmakers on the issue. The battle over cities’ local control authority has provided further kindling.
“Why fix something that we’ve already addressed in our local market using local stakeholders?” Dallas City Council member Lee Kleinman asked during the hearing of the House Transportation Committee.
Dallas and other cities have revamped their ride-hailing service rules of late, in response to the booming popularity of Lyft and Uber.
Municipal leaders argue that a tailored approach is more appropriate than a “one-size-fits-all” mandate for such a complex industry. But the companies say the regulatory patchwork has been harmful — and that in some cases, it’s caused them to leave town.
Lawmakers now must weigh those competing views as they delve into the finer points of car-for-hire rules.
“Our duty is not to the taxi companies. Our duty is not to Uber drivers,” said Rep. Joe Pickett, an El Paso Democrat who chairs the committee. “Our duty is to the people who use the taxis, who use Uber, who use Lyft.”
City officials in Dallas spent the better part of a year crafting new ride-hailing rules to bring exclusively app-based companies like Uber and Lyft into the fold.
The regulations represented a compromise among most cab operators and Uber and Lyft and a remarkable shift for Dallas officials, who months before had taken steps that could’ve driven the newer operators away.
Cities like San Antonio, however, have clashed with the new companies over local rules, such as background-check requirements. And Uber representative Sally Kay said Thursday that current local rules threaten the company’s “success in Texas.”
“The truth is that Texas currently has a patchwork of regulations that are inconsistent, unpredictable and unnecessarily burdensome,” she said.
Under Paddie’s bill — which has the backing of the Texas Association of Business and others — statewide regulations would cover everything from insurance to background checks to permitting fees. The measure was left pending before the committee Thursday.
Paddie has already tweaked his bill to clarify insurance requirements, to increase permitting fees and to allow local rules at airports. But lawmakers still raised questions Thursday over the bill’s standards for background checks, insurance and other elements.
One fundamental difference from Dallas’ approach, for instance, is that the bill focuses just on companies like Uber and Lyft, rather than all car-for-hire options. Dallas officials also pointed out key differences in rules on background checks and vehicle standards.
The city requires drivers to submit the results of an approved criminal background check, while the bill would leave those checks to the company. The city also requires vehicles to meet a lengthy list of quality standards, while the bill defers to state inspection rules.
And even lawmakers inclined to support a statewide approach asked Dallas officials to share their lessons learned.
“Y’all spent a lot of time and heartache going through this,” said Rep. Larry Phillips, R-Sherman. “Help us learn from your mistakes … so that we can make the right decision.”
Follow Tom Benning on Twitter
at @tombenning.
top picks
Plan a fun weekend
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

