MICHAEL LOMAX: 'Tomorrowland'belongs to the children
FILM COMMENTARY: Films plot makes sense, but loses a little gas two-thirds of the way through
George Clooney stars as Frank Walker in the new Disney movie “Tomorrowland.” (Photo: Disney)
Britt Robertson stars as Casey, who gets transported into a futuristic city in “Tomorrowland.” (Photo: Disney)
There were several families in the theater when I sat down for “Tomorrowland” this past weekend. I didn’t mind, but I did feel a little out of place. Not sure why. I knew this was going to be a kid’s movie, after all. But it wasn’t until after the film that I realized just how misguided I had been. “Tomorrowland” is not a kid’s movie so much as it’s a movie for kids.
Casey Newton (Britt Robertson) is a brilliant teenager who runs afoul of the law after disarming demolition drills at a Cape Canaveral launch pad. In the process, she attracts the attention of the mysterious Athena (Raffey Cassidy), and after being ensnared by visions of a futuristic fantasy world, Casey goes on the run with former boy-genius Frank Walker (Clooney) to return to the world of their dreams: Tomorrowland. But dreams aren’t exactly what they seem, and Casey, Frank, and Athena quickly find themselves in an interdimensional plot to save humanity from eradicating itself.
Built on stunning effects and drawing inspiration from the Disney theme park of the same name, “Tomorrowland” is visual eye-candy with quite a lot to say about optimism in the face of societal despair. The film is quick to point out how awful human beings can be to one another and how difficult it might be to keep your head up. For most of the characters, namely Frank and Governor Nix (Hugh Laurie), this struggle easily becomes open disgust.
That Casey is the only character able to cling to her youthful optimism is obvious. She’s young. She’s got her whole life ahead of her. She’s incredibly smart. But she isn’t exactly privy to the harsher realities of the world at large. As “Tomorrowland” suggests, just give Casey a couple more decades and the divide between her and the disillusioned Frank will be indistinguishable. The future, more often than not, doesn’t always lead to a beautiful place with happy endings.
And like the future, this is a far from perfect film with more promise than actual perfection. The plot makes sense, but two-thirds of the way through, the film does lose a little gas. The frenzied intensity is still there, but once “Tomorrowland” starts hand-feeding you exposition and back-story, I don’t feel like I’m flying any longer. More like sprinting to the finish.
Already over two hours long, it’s possible the film just lost track of time and needed to wrap things up quickly. But if the future is unbridled, why put a pretty pink bow on things? Basically, I don’t like the resolution, and I’m not alone in this. The film has received mixed critical reviews, and if early box office receipts are any indication, it will struggle to recover its almost $200 million budget.
That being said, this analysis misses the point of the story entirely. It’s true that the film itself probably got swept up in its visual effects, ultimately ignoring pitfalls in its own story. But as a work of astonishment and awe and uninhibited hope, “Tomorrowland” is an incredible success.
I could see the smiles of the children as they left the theater, and if any one of them later looks back on this as an imaginative turning point in their artistic lives, that’s all that really matters. The film, and the future, belong to them anyway.
Michael Lomax is a writer-filmmaker currently at work on a film script to be set and shot in Albany.
More like this story
Downtown Pelham
Profile

