Recent
Recent
RECENT
Recent
Recent
MORE
MORE
RECENT
100% precincts reporting
100% precincts reporting
100% precincts reporting
Saved
»
Ferguson City Council Candidate Ella Jones, (left) is congratulated by her opponent, Mike McGrath, (right) on Tuesday, April 7, 2015, at her election party at Drake's Place in Ferguson after beating him for Ward 1. Photo by Christian Gooden, cgooden@post-dispatch.com
FERGUSON • Despite all the national attention, the City Council election in Ferguson may have been decided by traditional campaigning rather than the Michael Brown shooting protests.
The successful campaigns had volunteers in place before the shooting in August. Voters elected two new African-American council members, but they also seemed to at least partially endorse the city’s current leadership.
Experience mattered. So did name recognition.
And now comes the difficult task of governing a city that has recently lost its city manager and police chief and must reach an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice in the next few weeks.
Tuesday’s victors were Brian Fletcher, a former mayor; Wesley Bell, a municipal court judge in Velda City; and Ella Jones, a former Mary Kay sales director who quit her job in order to run for a seat on the council.
Fletcher, a 28-year politician and founder of the “I Love Ferguson” campaign, said it was the most difficult race he had ever run. Paid canvassers for his opponent Bob Hudgins as well as Lee Smith, a candidate in the 3rd Ward, visited neighborhoods in recent days. But those efforts had limited effects.
Tony Rice, a local protester and activist who helped with Hudgins’ campaign, said the canvassers often didn’t know enough about the local issues to be convincing.
“People were knocking on doors who didn’t even know who the candidates were,” Rice said. “There was nothing there to make that connection.”
The Hudgins and Smith campaigns were both managed by Patricia Bynes, the high profile Ferguson Township Committeewoman, but apparently her organization wasn’t enough in the end.
Bell, who had an unsuccessful bid for the St. Louis County Council last summer, drew from his experience on that campaign.
“Obviously that was part of it,” said Dan Peterson, Bell’s campaign manager. “Most of our volunteers helped for the previous campaign.”
In fact, Bell recycled some of his old yard signs by cutting off the bottom portion.
Jones said she started campaigning more than two years ago for her council spot, sending out letters “to everybody I could think of.”
She said she wanted to hold town hall meetings to address a scathing Department of Justice Report that accused the police department of civil rights violations and the city’s municipal court of raising money off the backs of the poor.
Jones also said she would push for sensitivity training for police officers and for getting them off 12-hour shifts that can cause fatigue and make them more susceptible to anger.
Mayor James Knowles III didn’t publicly endorse any candidates, but when he was asked, spoke positively of the candidates who eventually won.
“I didn’t get publicly involved in anything because I had to work with whoever wins,” he said.
He said that in the coming weeks he hoped to have conversations with both Hudgins and Smith, even though the two have worked to recall him from office.
“If they really want to have a dialogue, I hope they will take the opportunity to sit down with me,” he said.
Fletcher, the former mayor and only white victor, said he was eager to get back to work. The city faces financial challenges on two fronts, he said. For one, it will not be able to generate as much money through its municipal court and will have to bear the cost of implementing any agreement reached with the Justice Department.
Nevertheless, he said he thought the city could comply with the agency’s proposed reforms.
This time in elected office he pledged to reach out more to people who don’t look like him.
“For us to move forward, not in only in Ferguson but as a nation, we are going to have to learn to deal with people who are different than us,” he said.
His take-away from the results: People want change. But not the type envisioned by some.
“They want slow and cautious and deliberated change,” he said.
​Stephen Deere • 314-340-8116
@stephencdeere on Twitter
sdeere@post-dispatch.com
Copyright 2015 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with www.stltoday.com account:
Username & Password Required!

