NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
Inside
Photo
Duke defeated Wisconsin, 68-63, Monday night in the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball championship. It is Duke's fifth title. Credit Streeter Lecka/Getty Images
• Not his father’s candidate.
Senator Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, announces his bid for the presidency today. He’ll try to set himself apart from his father, Ron Paul, who ran in 1988, 2008 and 2012, and to build a much larger following.
Senator Paul, 52, rode the Tea Party wave into office in 2010, and he is one of the movement’s most visible representatives in the Senate.
• Chicago votes.
Mayor Rahm Emanuel faces Jesus G. Garcia, a county commissioner who migrated to the U.S. from Mexico as a child, in a runoff today. The city has nonpartisan elections, and they’re both Democrats.
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. Monday – Friday.
Mr. Emanuel has raised more than $18 million, far more than his opponent, and a Chicago Tribune poll last week suggested he had a substantive lead .
• The crimes of militants.
About 18,000 Palestinian refugees in a camp in Syria are slowly starving , the United Nations says, after Islamic State extremists and their allies raided the area last week.
And in Iraq, forensic teams in the newly liberated city of Tikrit have started exhuming bodies from a mass grave believed to contain hundreds of soldiers killed by the militant group.
• Duke’s fifth championship.
Duke defeated Wisconsin , 68-63, Monday night in the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball championship. It’s Coach Mike Krzyzewski’s fifth title. He is behind only the former U.C.L.A. coach John Wooden, who won 10.
Tonight, Coach Geno Auriemma of Connecticut could win his 10th title, when his team faces Notre Dame in the women’s final (8:30 p.m. Eastern, ESPN).
• In the jury’s hands.
Jurors in the trial of the Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev are set to begin deliberations today, almost two years after explosions near the finish line killed three and wounded more than 260.
The murder trial of the former New England Patriots star Aaron Hernandez could also go to the jury today.
• Ferguson’s chance to change.
Residents of Ferguson, Mo., will cast their first votes for local leaders since the fatal shooting of Michael Brown last summer.
Activists are looking to change the face of the mostly black city’s mostly white political leadership.
• At the White House.
President Obama hosts an Easter prayer breakfast for Christian leaders from across the country. In the afternoon, he’ll take part in a round table on climate change at Howard University.
MARKETS
European shares are higher, and Asian indexes closed broadly higher.
• The Labor Department releases its Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey today. It’s a more detailed look at the job market than last Friday’s monthly employment report.
• Samsung Electronics announced that it expected earnings in the first quarter of 2015 to beat analysts’ forecasts , the first sign of a possible turnaround for the company.
Its Galaxy S6 phone goes on sale on Friday.
NOTEWORTHY
• Here comes the spinoff.
The crew of “Chicago Fire” takes the victims of a chemical leak to Chicago Med, giving viewers an early look at a new Dick Wolf medical drama debuting this fall (10 p.m. Eastern, NBC).
• New reads.
“A Fine Romance,” the Candice Bergen memoir out today, reflects on her love affairs, her affinity for food and, of course, “Murphy Brown.” Another TV star, Jon Cryer of “Two and a Half Men,” looks at life in Hollywood in his own memoir, “So That Happened.”
Other releases: Larry Kramer’s new novel , “The American People, Volume 1: Search for My Heart,” and “Words Without Music” by the composer Philip Glass.
• Tribute to Billie Holiday.
Cassandra Wilson releases today a collection of Billie Holiday songs , “Coming Forth by Day,” on the 100th anniversary of the jazz singer’s birth.
• A slice of Americana.
The original manuscript and notes to Don McLean’s 1971 classic anthem “ American Pie ” are auctioned off today in New York.
• A poet makes her mark.
A Maya Angelou stamp goes on sale today. It features the quote: “A bird doesn’t sing because it has an answer, it sings because it has a song.”
BACK STORY
Photo
Spring training can be dangerous. The Blue Jays lost the pitcher Marcus Stroman for the season after he tore a knee ligament. Credit Tommy Gilligan/USA Today Sports, via Reuters
It’s the first week of the Major League Baseball season, and all we can say for sure is that the freak injuries of spring training are finally over.
The sport’s 162-game regular-season grind is almost twice as much as the National Basketball Association’s and National Hockey League’s, but some players stumble, literally, on the way to opening day.
The White Sox ace Chris Sale broke his foot while unloading his truck.
The Rays relief pitcher Ronald Belisario broke his left shoulder getting out of a swimming pool. Both are expected to return soon.
The Blue Jays lost their best pitcher, Marcus Stroman, for the season when he tore a knee ligament during fielding drills.
And a Blue Jays outfielder, Michael Saunders, tore cartilage in his knee when he stepped on a sprinkler on the team’s training field. He’s scheduled to return this month.
Luckily for the players, baseball contracts are fully guaranteed by a collective bargaining agreement.
The players can also take comfort in this: The average salary on opening day rosters cracked the $4 million mark for the first time.
Your Morning Briefing is posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
Want to get the briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up .
Loading...

