Haberkip Immediately after U.S. Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., announced he will not run for a sixth term, political prognosticators declared the post a “toss-up,” with either party in a position to win the seat in 2016.Republican Gov. Brian Sandoval promptly was declared...
Who’s A-list and who’s a longshot in the race to replace Harry Reid
Immediately after U.S. Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., announced he will not run for a sixth term, political prognosticators declared the post a “toss-up,” with either party in a position to win the seat in 2016.Republican Gov. Brian Sandoval promptly was declared...
Immediately after U.S. Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., announced he will not run for a sixth term, political prognosticators declared the post a “toss-up,” with either party in a position to win the seat in 2016.
Republican Gov. Brian Sandoval promptly was declared the preferred to win, although the well known leader has said he isn’t interested.
On the Democratic side, Reid played the queenmaker, endorsing former Nevada Lawyer General Catherine Cortez Masto to succeed him. Just days following his March 27 retirement announcement, Reid was in Las Vegas, plotting her path to victory, saying he would place his formidable machine behind her.
“We are going to do every little thing we can,” Reid told the New York Occasions over a bowl of chicken soup, settling into his new function of political Godfather. “I have to make confident I take care of the particular person running for Senate in Nevada.”
Many prospective contenders currently have taken themselves out of the operating, from Reid’s eldest son, Rory, to former U.S. Rep. Shelley Berkley, D-Nev., who now runs Tuoro University in Nevada and California.
U.S. Rep. Joe Heck, R-Nev., stated he would rather keep in the Home, exactly where he has served due to the fact 2011. But like Sandoval, the congressman likely will really feel pressure from GOP leaders who want their ideal candidate in 2016’s hottest race following the presidency.
Meanwhile, Clark County Commission Chairman Steve Sisolak, a Democrat, mentioned he’s preparing for re-election and “leaning no” on a Senate run. U.S. Rep. Mark Amodei, R-Nev., has stated in the previous that he’s not interested, even though Reid’s retirement could alter that. State Treasurer Dan Schwartz, a Republican, said he would take into account operating only if Sandoval and Heck do not.
Yet the list of Nevadans who could try to join Washington’s exclusive club of one hundred remains relatively extended. Reid’s retirement has shifted the electoral ground, prompting relative newcomers and political veterans alike to contemplate the possibilities. Here’s a report card on some of the possible contenders:
DEMOCRATS:
CATHERINE CORTEZ MASTO
Funds — A+: Cortez Masto need to have no problems filling Senate campaign coffers in a race that could exceed 2010’s highly competitive race in which each Reid and Republican Sharron Angle every raised and spent additional than $25 million. Outside groups just about matched the candidates’ spending.
On her own, Cortez Masto took in practically $2.5 million for her elections in 2006 and 2010 and will have Reid as a rain­maker in 2016.
Due to the fact 2009, Reid has raised $23.six million for his campaign committee, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Reid also helped land $46.7 million for the 2012 midterm elections for the Senate Democrats’ super PAC, Senate Majority PAC. Reid’s personal campaign committee held $1.5 million as of Sept. 30.
Expertise — B: Cortez Masto served eight years as attorney basic immediately after a career as a criminal prosecutor for the U.S. Attorney’s Workplace in Washington, D.C., that gave her a taste of Capitol Hill.
Name Recognition — B: She’s held a higher-profile statewide office for two terms and is a native Nevadan of Hispanic heritage. Her father, the late Manny Cortez, had a high profile in Southern Nevada as the longtime head of the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority and was partly accountable for producing the Strip a tourist mecca.
Liability/Asset — C: Cortez Masto hasn’t had a challenging campaign and might not be prepared for a rough-and-tumble Senate race. She declined to challenge Sandoval final year.
DINA TITUS
Income — B: Titus has under no circumstances had difficulty raising revenue. She raised about $1.1 million final year for a 1st Congressional District race that wasn’t very competitive. She raised almost $two.six million for the very competitive 2010 campaign in the 3rd Congressional District, which she lost to Heck. For a Senate run she could anticipate a lot of help from outdoors groups such as Emily’s List.
Expertise — B: Titus has survived the campaign crucible and runs sturdy. Even her losses in some of the state’s most competitive districts have been close. In 2010 she lost to Heck by just 1,748 votes.
Name Recognition — B: Titus has been around Nevada politics for decades, such as 20 years in the state Senate (1988-2008) exactly where she rose to turn out to be minority leader. She also has a statewide profile, having run for governor and losing to Republican Jim Gibbons in 2006.
Liability/Asset — B: Titus, a native Georgian, has a thick Southern accent that can dissuade voters who favor native Nevadans. Strongly independent, she isn’t afraid to cross Reid and wouldn’t hesitate to challenge Cortez Masto if she thinks she can win. Titus in 2012 ran for the 1st Congressional District right after Reid hand-picked state Sen. Ruben Kihuen, D-Las Vegas, for the open seat. Kihuen dropped out just before the main.
ROSS MILLER
Money — A+: Miller is a talented fundraiser who brought in $2.six million for his failed 2014 lawyer common campaign.
Practical experience — C: At age 30, Miller became the youngest Nevada secretary of state in 2006 and was re-elected in 2010. But he faced weak GOP challengers in both campaigns. In 2014, he lost his initially actually competitive race to Adam Laxalt, a political newcomer who eked out a slim 4,750-vote victory, or 46.two % to 45.3 percent. Miller suffered in the low turnout race as Democrats stayed house, but his campaign also failed to turn voters against Laxalt.
Name Recognition — A: Miller held statewide workplace for eight years and boasts the highest social media profile among Nevada officials with nearly 17,500 Twitter followers. In addition, his father is Bob Miller, who was governor from 1989 to 1999.
Liability/Asset — C: Miller’s really like of socializing proved his downfall against Laxalt. He reported accepting much more than $70,000 in gifts whilst secretary of state, which includes tickets to sporting events such as the Ultimate Fighting Championship and football games where he sat in luxury skyboxes. Miller stated some of the freebies had been educational conferences. His opponents had been in a position to exploit the gifts and question his ethics.
LUCY FLORES
Income — C: Flores raised practically $754,000 in her failed 2014 race for lieutenant governor — not nearly enough to keep up with Republican Mark Hutchison, who raised about $two.5 million to win.
Experience — C: Flores served two terms in the Assembly, but neither of those elections featured tough competition. In 2010 she took 82.16 percent of the vote in the basic election. She swept up 73 % of the vote in a three-way principal in 2012 but faced no general election opponent at all.
Name Recognition — C:Tiny identified outside of Clark County, her weak showing last year was her very first statewide campaign. It focused on her bio — former gang member and higher-college dropout who had an abortion as a teen, then went on to graduate from law college and enter politics. Inspiring to lots of, her really hard-luck tale may well not play nicely in conservative rural Nevada.
Liability/Asset — C: Hispanics comprise almost 30 % of Nevada’s population and Flores had the Latino vote last year, but she had trouble reaching other demographic groups statewide. She’s regarded a long shot for a Senate bid but a improved candidate for the 4th Congressional District.
KATE MARSHALL
Money — C: Her secretary of state campaign raised $715,245 final year but spent $100,000 a lot more.
Experience — D: Marshall won two terms as state treasurer but failed in a 2011 particular election for the 2nd Congressional District and lost the secretary of state job final year.
Name Recognition — C: Couple of Nevadans can name the state treasurer, even 1 who served two terms.
Liability/Asset — C: Her higher-pitched voice can be grating she’s a two-time loser in her most recent elections.
REPUBLICANS:
BOB BEERS
Funds — B: He raised $152,000 in 2013 for his Las Vegas City Council campaign and has shown he can get bigger bucks when needed, such as extra than $500,000 for a single previous state Senate bid.
Practical experience — B: Beers served in the Nevada Assembly and Senate from 1999 to 2008 but was washed away by the Democratic wave that swept Barack Obama into the White Residence. He rebounded in 2012, beating eight other contenders in a Las Vegas City Council special election with 37 % of the vote. The following year voters gave him a landslide re-election, with 76 % of the vote.
Name Recognition — C: He ran in the 2006 GOP gubernatorial primary but isn’t broadly recognized outside Clark County.
Liability/Asset — B: Beers is the very first candidate to announce he’s operating for Reid’s seat, placing out the word and 55,000 pamphlets in January 2014. An accountant, he’s identified for asking lots of questions ahead of spending taxpayer money and was a leader of the Assembly’s “mean 15” which blocked a proposed $1 billion tax hike in 2003.
BRIAN SANDOVAL
Dollars — A+: Operating practically un­opposed, Sandoval raised about $three.7 million for his 2014 re-election, plus $1.4 million for his New Nevada PAC assisting other GOP candidates. He raised a lot more than $5 million to quickly defeat Rory Reid in 2010.
Expertise — B: The governor has served in all 3 branches of government as a member of the Nevada Assembly, state lawyer basic and as a federal judge. He’s under no circumstances faced a hard campaign.
Name Recognition —A: Not only is Sandoval broadly recognized, he’s also well-known. Additional than 60 percent of Nevadans say he does a good job. No credible Democrat would run against him final year, and his re-election was a 71-percent landslide. He’s also gaining popularity amongst Nevada Latinos, who lean Democrat. Latino Choices mentioned exit polls showed Sandoval got 47 percent of the Hispanic vote in 2014, up from 15 percent in 2010.
Liability/Asset — Incomplete: Sandoval insists he doesn’t want to run for the Senate but instead is focused on finishing his second four-year term, which runs through 2018. How Sandoval comes out of the Nevada Legislature could influence his political future: Will lawmakers approve his $7.3 billion spending strategy that consists of $1.1 billion in new and extended taxes to fund education? Is he as “unbeatable” as some insiders say? Stay tuned.
JOE HECK
Dollars —A: Heck raised practically $2.5 million for his 2014 campaign and spent much less than $2 million. He would have no difficulty raising big bucks for a Senate race from gaming interests and other key Nevada industries.
Knowledge — B: Heck has been able to hang on to his seat in the 3rd Congressional District for a number of elections, although it is the state’s most competitive Residence district with an even Republican-Democrat split and independents leaning GOP. He’s also had a taste of defeat: In 2008 he lost his state Senate seat in a Democratic wave election that place President Barack Obama in office.
Name Recognition — C: Heck maintains a pretty low profile as a really serious, workaday congressman, and he has in no way run a statewide race. That could place him at a disadvantage against somebody with statewide campaign practical experience.
Liability/Asset — B: Heck’s promotion last year to brigadier common in the U.S. Army Reserve and past active duty as a physician in Iraq make him an attractive candidate, specifically amongst Nevada’s substantial veteran population. But the moderate has come below fire from the left for voting with the conservative Home caucus on hot-button difficulties such as immigration and equal pay. Heck said he’s staying place in the House, but 2016 could be his best possibility to move up to the U.S. Senate.
BRIAN KROLICKI
Dollars — B: Krolicki hasn’t had a significant-income race, while he raised $640,000 and spent $1.1 million in his first election for lieutenant governor in 2006. He raised about half that for his 2010 re-election.
Expertise — B: He’s been about state government and GOP politics for a long time, serving two terms as state treasurer followed by two terms as lieutenant governor. He contemplated a run against Reid in 2010 but was sidelined by an ethics investigation that eventually foundered.
Name Recognition — C: Krolicki has been on the statewide ballot 4 times, but remains fairly unknown.
Liability/Asset — D: His profession took a hit with his 2008 indictment associated to management of a college savings plan even though state treasurer. A judge later dismissed the felony charges, which Krolicki characterized as a partisan attack by then-Lawyer General Cortez Masto.
MARK HUTCHISON
Revenue — A: Hutchison showed he can raise cash — lots of it — even for the low-profile post of lieutenant governor. He raised at least $two.five million to win a portion-time job that puts him in line to replace Sandoval, if require be.
Knowledge — B: A newcomer to politics, Hutchison resigned his state Senate seat midterm to run for lieutenant governor as Sandoval’s option. The stakes had been high, but Hutchison sailed into workplace with 59.five % of the vote.
Name Recognition — C: Hutchison’s campaign attracted a lot of consideration and he crisscrossed the state various times, however he remains reasonably unknown.
Liability/Asset — B: Sandoval’s support is a huge plus. An attorney, Hutchison represented Nevada for totally free in its challenge to Obamacare — work that created him well known among conservatives but could hurt him among Democrats.
MICHAEL ROBERSON
Revenue — B: Roberson raised more than $600,000 final year toward his 2014 state Senate race, plus revenue for a PAC and other candidates, helping the GOP take manage of the upper residence.
Encounter — C: His political career has taken off like a rocket considering that his first election to the state Senate in 2010. But the Senate majority leader under no circumstances has been tested in a statewide race.
Name Recognition — C: His state Senate leadership gets his name out there, but his lack of a statewide run signifies he’s not that broadly known. On the plus side, his base is Clark County, household to 75 percent of all Nevadans.
Liability/Asset — B: Roberson 1st ran as a strict conservative but has grow to be a moderate more than time. He’s now pushing for Sandoval’s $7.3 billion basic fund price range and $1.1 billion package of new and extended taxes. This could hurt him in any GOP principal but assist him throughout a general election. Insiders say family considerations and a need to remain in the Legislature weigh against a U.S. Senate race, for now.
ADAM LAXALT
Money — A: Laxalt surprised a lot of observers by raising extra than $1.8 million in his initially political campaign to score an upset more than greater-financed Ross Miller in last year’s lawyer basic race. He tapped conservatives in Washington, D.C., exactly where his mother, Michelle Laxalt, was a widely known lobbyist. Acquaintances of his grandfather, former Nevada Gov. and U.S. Sen. Paul Laxalt, also ponied up.
Expertise — C: Laxalt was a Navy judge advocate common and a lawyer in a private practice in Las Vegas. But he has only lived in Nevada for a handful of years and has run just one campaign. He would be sorely tested in a high-stakes contest that could determine which party controls the U.S. Senate.
Name Recognition — B: Laxalt’s loved ones name helped him win support statewide. He also spent a lot of time traveling the dusty roads to reach just about every corner of Nevada last year.
Liability/Asset — C: During the campaign, an operative leaked a memo from a Laxalt job assessment at the private firm, Lewis Roca, exactly where he worked. It mentioned he had sloppy legal capabilities and was “a train wreck” as a lawyer. His campaign countered by releasing rave reviews he got in the military, including when he oversaw terrorism situations in Baghdad. Laxalt has suggested he wants to concentrate on his new job but hasn’t ruled out a Senate bid.
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers@reviewjournal.com or 702-387-2919. Come across her on Twitter: @lmyerslvrj.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

