ago
BEIJING (AP) — Chinese authorities report that coal production in the world’s biggest coal-consuming nation fell by 6 percent in the first f…
ago
NEW YORK (AP) — Documentary photographer Mary Ellen Mark, called “a snake charmer of the soul” for her gift of capturing searing images of h…
By Jazmin Thibodeaux Published:
Marijuana is still creating discussion in the senate.
Senate Bill 241 passed in the Senate Monday. The proposed bill would lessen penalties on marijuana possession dealing with amounts less than 2.5 pounds
One Hub City Resident, Alex Simpson, feels this is long overdue. “I really don’t think it is that bad of a drug. They’re way too harsh with the penalties on it. They’re wasting too much on it.”
Resident, Telita Burley, agrees. “I know people who go to jail just for a little bit or get citations for just a little bit of marijuana so I think it can be a little bit extreme.”
The Senate voted 27 to 12 in favor of lowering the penalties for marijuana possession. State Senator, J.P. Morrell, authored the proposed bill. Morrell said if approved the bill would reduce the maximum penalty for marijuana possession from 20 years to eight.
State Representative Terry Landry believes the bill would put Louisiana in line with other states. “This is all an attempt to alleviate this mass incarceration that we’re having for small possessions of marijuana in Louisiana. We have a significant amount of people who are doing a lot of time just for possession of marijuana.”
The proposed bill gives first-time offenders a chance to have their record expunged. Morrell says it is a one-time opportunity that only applies if they’re not convicted of a marijuana violation within two years of the offense. Landry adds the bill would not affect other marijuana laws. “It doesn’t include sales of marijuana which is distribution. It just put us in line with the rest of the country as it relates to sentencing of a marijuana bill.”
The bill is now in the chambers of the House of Representatives.
Share this:
© Copyright 2000 - 2014 Young Broadcasting of Louisiana, Inc., a Media General Company

