Travel Deals
Posted: Wednesday, May 27, 2015, 1:08 AM
Addison Russell hit a game-ending RBI double in the ninth inning as the Chicago Cubs beat the surging Washington Nationals, 3-2, Tuesday night at Wrigley Field.
Chris Coghlan started the winning rally with a one-out single against Matt Grace (2-1). Russell lined a 1-0 pitch beyond centerfielder Denard Span's reach for the rookie's third hit of the game.
Rookie Kris Bryant went deep for his seventh homer of the season.
Nationals rookie Bryce Harper homered in the seventh inning for his 17th of the season.
Pirates 5, Marlins 1 - Jeff Locke worked into the sixth inning in his first win in more than a month, and host Pittsburgh dropped reeling Miami.
Miami rookie Jose Urena (0-1) failed to make it out of the fifth inning in his first big-league start, giving up five runs in 4 2/3 innings.
Reds 2, Rockies 1 - Skip Schumaker hit a game-winning double in the ninth inning to help Cincinnati end a nine-game losing streak - its longest in 17 years - with a victory over visiting Colorado.
Yankees 5, Royals 1 - Mark Teixeira homered and drove in four runs, Adam Warren pitched two-hit ball into the seventh inning to lift New York past Kansas City at Yankee Stadium and sent the AL champions to their first three-game skid this season.
Astros 4, Orioles 1 - Scott Feldman outpitched Chris Tillman, Chris Carter keyed a seventh-inning rally, and Houston beat Baltimore at Camden Yards for its 10th win in 13 games.
Luis Valbuena had two hits and two RBIs for the Astros.
We encourage respectful comments but reserve the right to delete anything that doesn't contribute to an engaging dialogue.
Help us moderate this thread by flagging comments that violate our guidelines .
Comment policy:
Philly.com comments are intended to be civil, friendly conversations. Please treat other participants with respect and in a way that you would want to be treated. You are responsible for what you say. And please, stay on topic. If you see an objectionable post, please report it to us using the "Report Abuse" option.
Please note that comments are monitored by Philly.com staff. We reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable. Personal attacks, especially on other participants, are not permitted. We reserve the right to permanently block any user who violates these terms and conditions.
 
CARS:
Newsletter
Get the latest Sports Wrap Up newsletter delivered to your email. Sign up now!

