 
City Officials Praise State's Investment in NYCHA Despite Strings Attached
By Zack Fink
OUT OF
Free Video Views Remaining
To get you to the stories you care about, we are offering everyone
10 video views to be used over the next 30 days.
video customers who login with their  TWC ID.
Time Warner Cable News offers all users 10 free videos every 30 days, but you've used up all your complimentary views for the month.
If you're a Time Warner Cable video customer, sign in with your TWC ID for full access.
Officials are largely praising a $100 million investment from the state in the New York City Housing Authority for much needed home repairs, but the funds came with some strings attached, which some see as part of a larger cat and mouse game between Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio. NY1’s Zack Fink reports.
Advocates for public housing residents had been lobbying for state funds to help make much-needed repairs. The state budget, which passed earlier this month, came through allocating $100 million for the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA).
Mayor Bill de Blasio says he is grateful. Sort of.
"We had asked the state for $300 million, which is a small amount considering the massive needs of NYCHA. We ended up with $100 [million]. $100 [million] is certainly better than nothing. We appreciate it,” said de Blasio.
But it's more than just the amount that put the de Blasio Administration on edge. Instead of a direct appropriation for NYCHA, the state funds will be controlled by a state agency. A big fight over who would control that money took place behind the scenes between the de Blasio administration and Cuomo, who sources say insisted there be state control.
"I think there was some back and forth between the Mayor and the Governor as to how the money should be injected into New York City,” said Manhattan Assemblyman Keith Wright.
The state budget also mandates an audit of those funds from the city comptroller, which some viewed as yet another layer of interference.
"Well, that's the mayor and the governor and the legislature negotiating what's the final outcome of the budget. My role is very simple: I'm supposed to audit the books. I'm supposed to look where dollars are spent. So I'm just doing my job,” said City Comptroller Scott Stringer.
Bronx Councilman Ritchie Torres, who chairs the council's housing committee says any cash from the state is welcome news.
"I do feel like too much has been made of the strings attached,” said Torres. “The $100 million that the state allocated to NYCHA is the largest state investment in public housing that we have seen in more than 20 years. So, on balance it's a victory worth celebrating."
Even with the strings attached, Mayor de Blasio has said publicly that he will match the state’s $100 million commitment from the state with $100 million in city money. Advocates however say there needs to be a dedicated source of funding for NYCHA rather than these one-time infusions of cash.
© 1999-2015 Time Warner Cable Enterprises LLC. All Rights Reserved.

