Supreme Court to hear Texas voting rights case; could impact Yakima
By Samina Engel Published: May 26, 2015 at 6:08 PM PDT Last Updated: May 26, 2015 at 6:08 PM PDT
Share this story
YAKIMA, Wash. --  The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear a Texas voting rights case -- one Yakima says could impact its own fight with the ACLU. KIMA spoke with the city's outside attorney who called today's development "significant."
A decision from D.C. to hear a case out of Texas has Yakima taking notice.
"This is a potential landmark decision which deals with the one-person, one-vote issue," said Yakima's outside counsel Francis Floyd. "And, I think it's something that would be a game-changer certainly for our case."
A case in which the ACLU prevailed and a federal judge ordered Yakima to switch to an all-district system; ruling the old one suppressed the Latino vote.
Yakima City Council voted to appeal that decision last month.
Now all eyes are on Supreme Court and a Texas voting rights case that could impact Yakima.
At issue is whether electoral districts should be made roughly equal based on total population or based only on the number of eligible voters.
Yakima's seven districts are based on population, but the number of eligible voters varies between them. Plaintiffs in the Texas case argue such differences could affect how much power one vote carries.
"The position that the city has taken is synonymous with the case that's been taken up by the Supreme Court," said Yakima City Manager Tony O'Rourke.
"I don't think it makes sense for Yakima to put its decision of its future in anybody else's hands, but those of its residents and the people that are living here," said Yakima City Council District 2 Candidate Avina Gutierrez.
She says it's time to move on.
"Not just a certain population, but the entire community has been speaking out very publicly that they're ready to see this behind them."
Attorneys for Yakima City Council say a decision in the Texas case could lead Yakima to prevail in its own litigation. The ACLU, for its part, wouldn't speculate on any ruling.
Yakima City Council will hold a special meeting Wednesday to discuss its options. The ACLU is seeking almost $3 million in legal costs from Yakima.
By hdihnen Published: Mar 18, 2015 at 2:50 PM PDT Last Updated: Mar 18, 2015 at 2:50 PM PDT
This magnetic storm is HUGE, and still going.  Has reach KP 8 today.  Would have stayed later to keep filming, but the clouds moved in.  Let's hope it persists into the evening tonight also for more pictures.
Yakima,
WA
98901

