BOJ April 30 minutes: risks to prices are tilted to downside
TOKYO
TOKYO May 27 Many Bank of Japan board members said risks to consumer prices are tilted to the downside due to uncertainty about long-term inflation expectations, consumer spending, and the output gap, minutes of the central bank's April 30 policy meeting showed on Wednesday.
A few members also said consumer prices would not meet the central bank's price target in fiscal 2017, the minutes showed.
However, a majority of board members agreed that this target can be reached around the first half of fiscal 2016, which is a delay from its previous target of some time around fiscal 2015.
The BOJ has stood pat on monetary policy since expanding stimulus in October last year to prevent slumping oil prices, and a subsequent slowdown in inflation, from delaying achievement of its 2 percent inflation target.   (Reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim)
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


(Repeats to additional alerts)
SAPPORO, Japan May 27 (Reuters) - Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata said on Wednesday the timing for achieving the bank's 2 percent inflation target has been "somewhat delayed" from its initial projection.
But he said that with the underlying trend of inflation improving steadily and wages on the rise, Japan will likely hit 2 percent inflation around the first half of next fiscal year, beginning in April.
"At this moment, the BOJ has no intention of changing its commitment to achieving its price stability target at the earliest possible time," he told business leaders in Sapporo, in the northernmost Japanese prefecture of Hokkaido.   (Reporting by Leika Kihara; Additional reporting by Stanley White in Tokyo; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim)
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

