BOJ April 30 minutes: risks to prices are tilted to downside
TOKYO
TOKYO May 27 Many Bank of Japan board members said risks to consumer prices are tilted to the downside due to uncertainty about long-term inflation expectations, consumer spending, and the output gap, minutes of the central bank's April 30 policy meeting showed on Wednesday.
A few members also said consumer prices would not meet the central bank's price target in fiscal 2017, the minutes showed.
However, a majority of board members agreed that this target can be reached around the first half of fiscal 2016, which is a delay from its previous target of some time around fiscal 2015.
The BOJ has stood pat on monetary policy since expanding stimulus in October last year to prevent slumping oil prices, and a subsequent slowdown in inflation, from delaying achievement of its 2 percent inflation target.   (Reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim)
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


5/26/2015 8:46 PM ET
The members of the Bank of Japan's monetary policy committee were satisfied that the current monetary policy stance remained appropriate, minutes from the bank's April 30 meeting revealed on Wednesday.
The underlying inflation trend was improving steadily, the minutes showed, although there was some debate about achieving the target goal of 2 percent.
The members also were pleased at the pickup in business investment.
"The underlying trend in inflation had been improving steadily, judging from developments in the output gap and medium- to long-term inflation expectations, both of which were factors that determined the underlying trend in inflation, and that therefore it was not necessary at this point to make adjustments to the guideline for monetary policy," the bank said.
At the meeting, the bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.1 percent, and also decided by an 8-1 majority vote to maintain the size of quantitative and qualitative easing.   Accordingly, the bank will continue to increase the monetary base at an annual pace of about JPY 80 trillion.
"With a view to encouraging a decline in interest rates across the entire yield curve, the Bank will conduct purchases in a flexible manner in accordance with financial market conditions. The average remaining maturity of the Bank's JGB purchases will be about 7-10 years," the bank said.
The BoJ last expanded the stimulus in October after it noted downward pressure from a substantial decline in crude prices hindering its ability to reach 2 percent inflation target.
Inflation outlook for the fiscal 2016 was downgraded to 2 percent from 2.2 percent. For fiscal 2017, the bank sees the consumer price index (all items less fresh food) to rise 3.2 percent.
"As for prices, excluding the direct effects of the consumption tax hike, the producer price index (PPI) had declined relative to three months earlier at a reduced pace, reflecting movements in international commodity prices. The year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was about 0 percent," the bank said.   Further, the bank said real growth is set to improve but slightly less than previously projected for FY 2015 and 2016. The economic growth for FY2015 is seen at 2 percent versus the 2.1 percent estimated in January.   Likewise, the outlook for FY 2016 was downgraded to 1.5 percent from 1.6 percent.    The bank expects growth to slow notably to 0.2 percent in fiscal 2017. The slowdown would be largely caused by the effects of a front-loaded increase and subsequent decline in demand prior to and after the consumption tax hike planned in April 2017, it said.
"Many members shared the recognition that QQE had been exerting its intended effects, and that the Bank would continue with QQE, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it was necessary for maintaining this target in a stable manner. These members continued that, in doing so, it would examine both upside and downside risks to economic activity and prices, and make adjustments as appropriate," the bank said.
by RTT Staff Writer

