BOJ April 30 minutes: risks to prices are tilted to downside
TOKYO
TOKYO May 27 Many Bank of Japan board members said risks to consumer prices are tilted to the downside due to uncertainty about long-term inflation expectations, consumer spending, and the output gap, minutes of the central bank's April 30 policy meeting showed on Wednesday.
A few members also said consumer prices would not meet the central bank's price target in fiscal 2017, the minutes showed.
However, a majority of board members agreed that this target can be reached around the first half of fiscal 2016, which is a delay from its previous target of some time around fiscal 2015.
The BOJ has stood pat on monetary policy since expanding stimulus in October last year to prevent slumping oil prices, and a subsequent slowdown in inflation, from delaying achievement of its 2 percent inflation target.   (Reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim)
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


May 27, 2015
Further confirmation that you shouldn't hold out for new easing from the Bank of Japan anytime soon.
Bank of Japan deputy governor Kikuo Iwata maintained the Japanese economy is recovering, with "a virtuous cycle from income to spending" aiding the economy.
Speaking in Sapporo, he said the global economy is picking up, which should be key to exports. Tourism is also increasing, helped by the softer yen. The negative impact from the April 2014 consumption tax increase is waning, and corporate profits are projected to improve.
Meantime, unemployment is just 3.5 per cent and the labour shortage appears to be growing, which should help wages to get a lift (see the charts below).
Mr Iwata said Japan's economy should grow " a pace above its potential from fiscal 2015 through fiscal 2016."
If the BoJ ends up being too optimistic, as a number of economists anticipate , it could be forced to ease further. But at the moment it looks clear that new efforts are far from the minds of central bankers.
Meet the team
Fast FT is a global team working across timezones to give you market-moving news and views twenty-four hours a day, five days a week
London
FT and 'Financial Times' are trademarks of The Financial Times Ltd.
Always Learning

