AP News - Top Mormons outline support for marriage for man-lady only
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) — Mormon leaders vowed to be a top advocate for the belief that marriage is an institution exclusive to a man and a lady through the religion's biannual conference that also incorporated two rare events.The initially came when the conference...
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) — Mormon leaders vowed to be a top advocate for the belief that marriage is an institution exclusive to a man and a lady through the religion's biannual conference that also incorporated two rare events.
The initially came when the conference kicked off without the usual welcoming address from church President Thomas S. Monson, 87, who days earlier also missed a meeting with President Barack Obama while he was in Utah.
Monson, who was nevertheless present at conference and walked in on his personal, skipped the speech as part of a decision to lower the number of speeches he's providing this weekend, church officials mentioned. He gave a short speech about the priesthood Saturday evening.
The second unusual event occurred when five folks stood up and yelled, "Opposed," throughout a part of the conference when attendees typically raise their hands in unison in a vote of assistance for church leadership, drawing some gasps by shocked attendees who hadn't noticed this kind of act for decades. They represented only a handful of the 20,000 in attendance.
Highlights from the conference in Salt Lake City:
___
Assistance FOR MARRIAGE In between A MAN-Woman
L. Tom Perry, a member of the faith's Quorum of the Twelve, cautioned Mormons not to be swayed by a planet filled with media and entertainment that presents the minority masquerading as the majority and tries to make mainstream values look obsolete.
Perry said sturdy, classic households are the fundamental units of a stable society, a steady economy and a stable culture of values. He noted that Mormons investment in the topic is even deeper than other religions due to the fact they believe marriages and family members are for eternity.
"We want our voice to be heard against all of the counterfeit and option lifestyles that try to replace the household organization that God Himself established," Perry mentioned.
D. Todd Christofferson, yet another member of the quorum, added a lot more on the subject, saying, "A loved ones constructed on the marriage of a man and lady supplies the very best setting for God's plan to thrive — the setting for the birth of children who come in purity and innocence from God."
Christofferson stated the focus on marriage is not meant to disparage these who never marry, be it for the reason that they can not uncover a suitable companion, have physical or mental impairments or expertise exact same-sex attraction.
"No one is predestined to obtain significantly less than all that the Father has for His youngsters," Christofferson stated.
The quorum is a governing physique of the church that is modeled soon after Jesus Christ's apostles and serves below the church president and his two counselors.
As acceptance for gay marriage has swelled in current years and exact same-sex unions have grow to be legal in dozens of states, such as Utah, the church's stance on homosexuality has softened.
Church leaders helped push through a Utah law this year that bars housing and employment discrimination against gay and transgender folks though also expanding protections for the rights of religious groups and men and women. LGBT activists have spent years pushing for a statewide non-discrimination law, but they could not get traction until LDS leaders created a nationwide call for this type of legislation that combined protections for religious liberties.
___
PRESIDENT SKIPS CUSTOMARY OPENING
A few eyebrows had been raised when President Monson didn't come out for his customary welcome address, given as an alternative by the faith's third-highest ranking leader, Dieter F. Uchtdorf.
Monson walked in and out of the two sessions on his personal, though he had a tiny stumble as he was reaching his seat at the beginning of the afternoon session that led to gasps in the crowd. He recovered and sat through the session.
When he missed the meeting with Obama, church officials stated that decision was to preserve his strength for the conference.
Monson has missed only 1 other welcoming speech at a conference due to the fact he was named president in February 2008. That was at the fall conference in October 2011.
In the Mormon faith, which counts 15 million members worldwide, church presidents are regarded living prophets. Monson, the 16th president of a faith founded in 1830, has kept a reasonably low profile in the course of his tenure.
___
Support FOR LEADERS NOT Completely UNANIMOUS
Dieter F. Uchtdorf, the faith's third-highest ranking leader who was at the podium handling this portion of the conference, calmly responded when the five men and women stood up to cast opposing votes, causing a bit of a stir.
"Thank you. The vote has been noted," Uchtdorf stated.
At the end of this segment, he reminded these in opposition they are welcome to talk a lot more about their reasons with regional church leaders.
Two of the males who stood up stated afterward they did it to express their displeasure with how handful of opportunities they have to express concerns to church leaders.
Micah Nickolaisen, 31, of Mesa, Arizona, said church leaders want to make space for Mormons who have critical questions and doubts devoid of just telling them to study additional scripture.
"The leaders of the church are insulated by so numerous layers of bureaucracy that we feel it's practically not possible for them to get genuine, authentic feedback," mentioned Nickolaisen, a legal case manager.
Nickolaisen said they weren't kicked out of the conference or reprimanded.
___
COOKIES AND KISSES
As part of the day's concentrate on marriage and family, Boyd Packer, president of the quorum, spoke about the joy of romance and enjoy and the significance of a man and woman and their youngsters becoming sealed in a Mormon temple for eternity. Packer, who has been married practically 70 years, acknowledged marriage is a challenge and presented the essential ingredients to productive marriages: "a cookie and a kiss."

