Top Stories in US & World
Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
This week in 1991 Houston was visited by Queen Elizabeth II
Top Stories in Lifestyle
Top Stories in Jobs
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
By Cindy George | May 26, 2015 | Updated: May 26, 2015 9:17pm
Page 1 of 1
Family tricked son from joining ISIS: A MAN, who had living with relatives in Sydney, has been arrested for te... http://t.co/XcGsMAN759
 
A history of Islamic State
The extremist Islamic State group now controls a third of both Iraq and Syria in its self-declared caliphate.
Though beaten back by airstrikes launched by a U.S.-led coalition, the Islamic State group remains a potent threat, Western officials warn. Here's a look at the group's birth, its atrocities and the world's response to the extremists.
April 18, 2010
U.S. and Iraqi forces kill two top al-Qaida in Iraq leaders, allowing al-Baghdadi to become the leader of a terror group weakened by a concerted campaign aimed at ending a Sunni insurgency in the country.
Click through the rest of the photos to see a timeline of the Islamic State Group
Photo By Khalid Mohammed/Associated Press 
Oct. 31, 2010
 
Oct. 4, 2011
The U.S. puts a $10 million bounty on al-Baghdadi's head over a series of attacks he orchestrated.
July 21, 2012
In his first purported online message, al-Baghdadi promises to regain lost ground in Iraq and calls on militants to "chase and liquidate the judges, the investigators and the guards." Within days, his group begins a campaign of attacks, car bombings and other assaults killing hundreds. He also mentions Syria, in the grips of a civil war pitting largely Sunni rebels against embattled President Bashar Assad. By this time, al-Baghdadi already has begun to send fighters there.
Photo By Anonymous/HOPD 
April 2013
Al-Baghdadi announces his group has taken over the Nusra Front, the al-Qaida affiliate in Syria. Nusra denies the takeover, sparking anger and infighting that continues to this day.
Photo By Karim Kadim/AP 
A military-style assault by al-Baghdadi's fighters on two Baghdad-area prisons free more than 500 inmates.
Photo By Uncredited/AP 
January 2014
Al-Baghdadi's forces sweep into Ramadi and Fallujah in Iraq's Anbar province, which Iraqi security forces had abandoned weeks earlier. That came after security forces killed demonstrators during a Sunni protest, effectively turning the unrest into an uprising.
Photo By Uncredited/AP 
Early February 2014
Al-Qaida breaks with al-Baghdadi's group, now known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. Al-Baghdadi ignores al-Qaida as his group now has control of wide regions of Syria, including the city of Raqqa, which becomes the group's de facto capital.
Photo By Uncredited/AP 
June 10, 2014
Al-Baghdadi's fighters take over Iraq's second-largest city of Mosul, followed by Saddam Hussein's hometown of Tikrit and smaller communities in the Sunni heartland as government forces melt away.
Photo By Uncredited/Associated Press 
June 29, 2014
The group declares the establishment of an Islamic state, or caliphate, in territories it controls in Iraq and Syria and demands allegiance from Muslims worldwide. It declares al-Baghdadi the leader of the new caliphate. The militants rename themselves the Islamic State group.
July 5, 2014
A man purporting to be al-Baghdadi makes his first public appearance, delivering a sermon at a mosque in Mosul.
Photo By Tech. Sgt. Russ Scalf/HOPD 
Aug. 8, 2014
The U.S. begins targeting the Islamic State group with airstrikes, citing the humanitarian plight of Iraq's minorities, like the Yazidi.
Photo By Nicole Tung/AP 
Aug. 19, 2014
The Islamic State group releases a video showing a jihadi behead James Foley, a 40-year-old journalist from Rochester, New Hampshire, in response to the U.S.-led airstrikes. This marks the first of many videos showing militants behead Western captives.
Photo By HO/Handout 
Sept. 2, 2014
The Islamic State group releases a video showing a jihadi behead American-Israeli journalist Steven Sotloff.
Photo By Associated Press 
Sept. 13, 2014
The Islamic State group releases a video showing a jihadi behead British aid worker David Haines.
Photo By Family Handout/HONS 
Oct. 3, 2014
The Islamic State group releases a video showing a jihadi behead British hostage Alan Henning.
Photo By Vadim Ghirda/AP 
Smoke rises from an Islamic State position in eastern Kobani, after an airstrike by the US led coalition, seen from a hilltop outside Suruc, on the Turkey-Syria border Saturday, Nov. 8, 2014. Kobani, also known as Ayn Arab, and its surrounding areas, has been under assault by extremists of the Islamic State group since mid-September and is being defended by Kurdish fighters.
Photo By Jehad Nga/Corbis 
U.S. troops prepare detainees for transport to Al Qaim base for questioning in Taxi to the Dark Side.
Photo By Hasan Jamali/AP 
Nov. 8, 2014
Iraqi officials say al-Baghdadi is wounded in an airstrike on an Iraqi town near the Syrian border. Days later, an online audio message purportedly from al-Baghdadi urges his followers to "explode the volcanoes of jihad everywhere."
Photo By HANDOUT 
Nov. 16, 2014
An Islamic State group video shows extremists behead a dozen Syrian soldiers and U.S. aid worker Peter Kassig.
Photo By Ishtiaq Mahsud/Associated Press 
Jan. 10, 2015
An online video shows Taliban fighters in Pakistan pledge loyalty to the Islamic State group and behead a man they identify as a soldier. Similar pledges previously arose from Egypt, Yemen and elsewhere in the Mideast. Afghan authorities later acknowledge a similar presence in their country.
Photo By HONS 
Jan. 24, 2015
A message claims the Islamic State group beheads Japanese hostage Haruna Yukawa, right, a 42-year-old adventurer, after earlier demanding $200 million for him and captive Japanese journalist Kenji Goto. Japanese and Jordanian officials attempt to negotiate a prisoner swap to free him and captured Jordanian pilot 1st Lt. Mu'ath al-Kaseasbeh.
Photo By Jake Simkin/AP 
Jan. 26, 2015
Kurdish fighters take control of the Syrian border town of Kobani near Turkey after fighting the Islamic State group for months. U.S.-led airstrikes helped turn the tide for the Kurds.
Photo By Reportr by Independent Press and Pacific Bridge Media & Consulting/AP 
Jan. 31
The Islamic State group releases video saying it beheaded Goto.
Photo By Nasser Nasser/AP 
Feb. 3, 2015
The Islamic State group releases a video of it burning al-Kaseasbeh to death in a cage, sparking outrage in Jordan, which launches new strikes targeting the militants.
Photo By Jo. L. Keener/AP 
Feb. 6, 2015
The Islamic State group claims a Jordanian airstrike kills American hostage Kayla Jean Mueller. U.S. officials later confirm her death, but say it wasn't caused by a Jordanian airstrike.
Photo By Hassan Ammar/AP 
Feb. 15, 2015.
Libyan militants who earlier pledged their loyalty to the Islamic State group behead a group of Coptic Christians from Egypt in an online video.
Photo By Hassan Ammar 
Women mourn over Egyptian Coptic Christians who were captured in Libya and killed by militants affiliated with the Islamic State group, inside the Virgin Mary Church in the village of el-Aour, near Minya, 220 kilometers (135 miles) south of Cairo, Egypt, Monday, Feb. 16, 2015. Egyptian warplanes struck Islamic State targets in Libya on Monday in swift retribution for the extremists' beheading of a group of Egyptian Christian hostages on a beach, shown in a grisly online video released hours earlier. (AP Photo/Hassan Ammar) ORG XMIT: HAS131
Photo By AP 
Feb. 15
Libyan militants who earlier pledged their loyalty to the Islamic State group behead a group of Coptic Christians from Egypt in an online video.
Photo By Uncredited/AP 
Feb. 16, 2015
Egypt launches airstrikes in Libya in retaliation for the beheadings.
Photo By AP 
In this still image taken from video a soldier fires a rocket propelled grenade (RPG) in Tikrit, Iraq on Wednesday, March 11, 2015. Iraqi soldiers and Shiite militiamen entered the Islamic State-held city of Tikrit on Wednesday, authorities said, breaching one of the biggest strongholds of the extremists in a key test for Iraqi forces.
Photo By AP 
March 11, 2015
 
A 20-year-old Spring man has become the latest U.S. resident accused of trying to travel to Syria to fight with an Islamic terror group.
Asher Abid Khan , a 2013 graduate of Klein Oak High School , is charged with conspiracy to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization.
The charge carries a potential sentence of 15 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000.
Khan was arrested on Tuesday morning without incident. He was scheduled for a same-day initial appearance before a federal magistrate, but the hearing was postponed until Wednesday.
The criminal complaint accusing him of working with ISIL from December 2013 through December 2014 was announced in a news release issued by Ken Magidson , the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Texas, along with John P. Carlin , assistant attorney general for national security, and Perrye K. Turner , the special agent in charge of the FBI's Houston division.
A 20-page criminal complaint filed under seal on Monday by a Houston-based FBI agent alleges that Khan and a friend devised a plan to travel through Turkey into Syria in hopes of waging jihad.
Also known as ISIS or the Islamic State, ISIL controls parts of Iraq and Syria, but also operates beyond the Middle East. The U.S. designated the group in 2014 as a foreign terrorist organization.
While answering questions in March during a Council on Foreign Relations forum in New York City, U.S. Intelligence Chief James Clapper said that about 180 Americans have attempted to travel to Syria or have succeeded in reaching the country to fight with Islamic militants. More than 20,000 foreigners are believed to have gone to Syria to support ISIS, experts have told Congress.
Travel details on Facebook
The FBI initially discovered Khan's plan in October 2014 because he largely worked out the details of his travels through social media, chiefly Facebook, and text messages.
The federal investigation by the FBI Joint Terrorism Task Force focused on Khan and a friend - identified by his initials and the probable pseudonym of " Abdullah Ali ,"  who is described in the complaint as a Mexican convert to Islam.
While living in Australia with relatives in January 2014, Khan allegedly asked a 24-year-old Turkey-based foreign terrorist fighter facilitator if he could assist him in joining ISIL because he wanted to die a "shaheed," or martyr.
Khan explained that he disliked the West and moved. According to the complaint, he also said that he was "sad" that he lives "comfortably while [his] brothers are in so much hardship."
The facilitator responded that he could provide assistance once Khan reached Turkey.
Khan and his friend decided to meet in Turkey in February 2014.
Khan's friend successfully traveled from Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston to London's Heathrow. Khan left Australia and had a layover in Malaysia.
Plan thwarted
However, Khan's plan was thwarted when relatives learned of his intentions and sent him false information about his mother's health to entice him to return home to Texas.
According to the criminal complaint, family members told Khan that his mother was in the hospital. (Khan later complained in a Facebook message that he rushed home under the assumption that his mother was in intensive care.)
Khan eventually met his friend in Turkey, which is often an initial destination for those wishing join ISIL in Syria, but switched his itinerary to return to the United States. The friend continued to Syria and allegedly joined ISIL by August 2014, the complaint said.
Two assistant U.S. attorneys from the Southern District of Texas will be prosecuting the case along with a pair of lawyers from the Justice Department 's counterterrorism section. It was unclear late Tuesday whether Khan had secured legal counsel.
The fierce thunderstorms stunned a region already saturated by weeks of rainy...
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

