Last on Barack Obama’s Iran call list: Mitch McConnell
4/3/15 5:48 PM EDT
It took long enough, but President Barack Obama finally talked with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell late Friday — a full day after the administration reached a landmark framework accord with Iran.
“It is the president’s aim to speak with all four” congressional leaders, White House spokesman Eric Schultz said on Friday, in response to reporters’ questions on Air Force One, where Obama was slated to make more calls touting the Iran deal.
Story Continued Below
But until Friday afternoon, McConnell was the only one the president hadn’t reached.
As of 4 p.m., McConnell spokesman Don Stewart noted that the majority leader has been overseas “and they are scheduled to speak soon.” Later, he said the two had indeed talked on the phone.
It’s not that Obama hadn’t tried. McConnell wasn’t necessarily accessible. He was returning home from leading a congressional delegation to the Middle East on Friday. But Speaker John Boehner also had just returned from the region on Friday, and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi is in the midst of a five-nation tour of Asia.
It’s especially ironic because Obama’s first stop after his Rose Garden speech heralding the deal on Iran’s nuclear program was McConnell’s home turf of Kentucky.
“Well, first of all, sorry I’m late,” Obama told a crowd at a Louisville tech company Thursday, where he spoke three hours later than planned. “I had a couple things I had to do.”
Obama called Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid and Boehner on Thursday afternoon, and Pelosi had also heard from the president.
Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) hasn’t heard from the president, but the Foreign Relations Committee chairman who plans to move forward with legislation that would let Congress block the deal has gotten lots of attention from the administration. He’s already heard from Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz and Deputy Secretary of State Tony Blinken.
The Obama administration is launching a heavy congressional outreach campaign to try to sell the Iran deal. Vice President Joe Biden is also making calls, as is White House chief of staff Denis McDonough, Blinken, National Security Advisor Susan Rice and Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, Schultz said.
Authors:

