May 23, 2015
Recent
May 26, 2015
Recent
May 25, 2015
Breaking
May 26, 2015
Another year and another team is favored in the All-Star voting. It seems as if almost every year a certain first place team leads the voting and not because they have the great stats to make it.
Most years the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox dominate the American League All-Star team. This year the Kansas City Royals are the early leaders for the AL. Some of these players aren’t even playing well enough to be a starter.
The Royals have leading vote-getters at shortstop, third base, catcher and the outfield. If it wasn’t for the fact that people love to watch Miguel Cabrera , there is a good chance Eric Hosmer would be in front of him.
Taking a look at the shortstop position, both Marcus Semien and Jose Iglesias have better stat lines than Alcides Escobar . Both Semien and Iglesias are batting at least .290 this season. In reality, do baseball fans really want to see Escobar start the game? Probably not.
Mike Moustakas is playing well and is sort of deserving of the spot, but Josh Donaldson might be the better choice as he has more home runs and runs batted in.
Stephen Vogt is tearing it up this year with a batting average of .307 with 10 home runs and 33 RBI. The leading vote-getter is Salvador Perez and he has just five home runs. He also should be a reserve as oppose to a starter. Not to mention the fact that Perez is the leading vote-getter for all players and Nelson Cruz should be leading instead.
Cruz is an early Triple-Crown candidate and is an obvious choice for leading vote-getter but isn’t.
The biggest question mark should be the outfield where both Lorenzo Cain and Alex Gordon lead over Adam Jones . Jones is a clear choice to be a starter for the AL outfield. He has better stats than the both of them and he has to carry much more of the load for his team.
It might be the first ballot update but let’s hope these are not the final results come July. The game just isn’t fun when there is not a lot of variety of players from different teams.
Follow Jeremiah Delgado on Twitter ; to read about his take on other sports check out JD Sports
Share this:
OutsidePitchMLB Staff Writer
On most days, Jeremiah Delgado is glued to the T.V. watching sports. His entire life revolves around sports but obviously he cares about other things, too. Delgado's family and friends are very important but they all understand his obsession with sports. He love movies but tends to stay away from the rom-coms. He has written articles for the Greenwich Time, The Ionian newspaper, and North Avenue Nation. He is also a very hard-worker and has a passion for writing about sports.
Related Posts
Name*
Email*
Website
Comment
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Copyright 2015. Outsidepitchmlb.com is a member of the Outside Pitch Sports Network LLC

