Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By SOPHIA TAREEN and ERICA WERNER Associated Press
04/02/2015 7:37 PM
04/02/2015 7:37 PM
Republican U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk of Illinois said Thursday that he'll vote for Loretta Lynch's nomination for attorney general, removing doubts that she'll win confirmation when the Senate votes in coming weeks.
Kirk is the fifth GOP senator to announce support for Lynch, whose nomination has been delayed for months, most recently because of gridlock on an unrelated human trafficking bill that Senate GOP leaders wanted to complete first.
Kirk, who faces a tough re-election, told the City Club of Chicago that he met with Lynch last month and spoke about the need to address gang violence in Chicago.
"Because she was so good on the subject, I'm going to vote for Loretta Lynch's confirmation," he said before civic and business leaders.
If all Democrats are voting, that means Lynch would win confirmation with 51 votes and Vice President Joe Biden would not need to cast the tie-breaking vote, which seemed possible prior to Kirk's announcement.
Although her ultimate confirmation has never been in real doubt, Democrats have grown increasingly agitated about the delay, even though they controlled the Senate for part of the time and failed to bring her nomination to a vote.
Lynch, whom President Barack Obama nominated last year to replace Eric Holder, has been praised widely by members of both parties. She's the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York and would be the nation's first black female attorney general.
But many Republicans have opposed her because of her support for Obama's executive actions staying deportations for millions of immigrants in the U.S. illegally.
--
Nation & World Videos
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

