Recent
Recent
Recent
Recent
Saved
1 hour ago
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) — Service providers are struggling with what work will look like Monday after Gov. Bruce Rauner trimmed $26 million in state grants.
Among funding cut late Friday to close a $1.6 billion current-year deficit is $3.4 million for helping immigrants assimilate and $3.1 million to help kids between the ages of 7 and 17.
Spokeswoman Catherine Kelly says Rauner is trying to make ends meet without raising taxes or borrowing.
Breandan (BREHN'-din) Magee is program director for the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights. He said Saturday that English classes, citizenship-application assistance and more will end.
Jimi Orange of Children's Home and Aid says as many as a quarter of the 100 kids who are tutored after school in Chicago's West Englewood neighborhood won't be able to come anymore.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Email:
NEW: The Best of JG-TC (weekly)
The JG-TC weekly roundup gives you the highlights of the week.
Get It! Offers
Get the latest offers and updates from local businesses in this weekly email.
Special offers from our business partners
Be among the first to know about special offers from businesses near where you live and work!
Daily Headlines
Get the latest local headlines from JG-TC. See an example
Contests & Promotions
Don't miss a chance to win big! Get our periodic contest updates to stay in the know.
Garage Sales (weekly)
Serena wins 8th Key Biscayne title by beating Suarez Navarro
Obituaries
Receive the current days obituaries in your email!
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Gardening
Fishing
Monday:        Coconut Shrimp...$15.95
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
JG-TC Links & Services
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with jg-tc.com account:
Username & Password Required!

