Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
There are optimum times to apply to secure the maximum benefit.
Post to Facebook
Lesnick explains Social Security applications There are optimum times to apply to secure the maximum benefit. Check out this story on thecalifornian.com: http://www.thecalifornian.com/story/money/2015/05/27/lesnick-explains-social-security-applications/27812253/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Nan Lesnick 12:02 a.m. PDT May 27, 2015
Nan Lesnick
(Photo: Provided)
Did you know that by selecting the optimum time to apply for Social Security you can maximize your benefits?
Full retirement age (FRA) is the age at which you can claim full, unreduced benefits. In years past, that age was 65 for everyone. As a result of amendments made in 1983, we are seeing a higher full retirement age being phased in.
For everyone born between 1943 and 1954, full retirement age is 66. For those born in 1955 through 1959, full retirement age is 66 plus some number of months. For everyone born in 1960 and later, full retirement age is 67.
Keep in mind that your primary insurance amount (PIA) is the benefit you will receive at full retirement age. So what happens if you apply for Social Security before full retirement age? Your benefit will be reduced. You will receive a percentage of your PIA depending on when you apply. If your full retirement age is 66 and you apply at age 62, you will receive 75 percent of your PIA. If you applied at age 63, you would receive 80 percent, and so on. If your full retirement age is 67 and you apply at 62, you will receive 70 percent of your PIA. These amounts are actually prorated monthly, so you can apply anytime after the age of 62 and your benefit will be reduced by the appropriate amount.
So, what happens if you apply for Social Security benefits after you reach full retirement age? In this case, you will earn delayed credits of eight percent for each year you delay. So, if your full retirement age is 66 and you apply at 67, your benefit will be 108 percent of your PIA. At 68, it will be 116 percent, and so on. After age 70, you can’t earn any more delayed credits, so it doesn’t pay to wait until after age 70 to apply for Social Security.
There are several ways you can find out approximately how much you can expect to receive in benefits.
One way is to refer to your annual Social Security statement. These are now available online at www.socialsecurity.gov/mystatement. You will need to set up an account by answering a number of security questions.
Another way is to use the Retirement Estimator on the Social Security website at www.socialsecurity.gov. This calculator taps into your specific earnings history after you enter your personal identifying information including your birth date, Social Security number and your mother’s maiden name on their secure site.
Please note that the annual statement and the Retirement Estimator do not factor Cost of Living Adjustments (COLAs) into your age-70 benefit. This means that your actual benefit will likely be higher than they indicate. Our calculators do adjust for COLAs, so if you know your PIA, we can help you project your future benefits.
You can also try one of the three calculators at www.ssa.gov/planners/benefitcalculators.htm. For further information: www.lesnickcompany.com
Nan Lesnick is an Investment Advisor Representative with and Securities and Investment Advisory Services offered through Transamerica Financial Advisors, Inc. (TFA) member FINRA, SIPC and a Registered Investment Advisor. Non- Security products and services are not offered through TFA. LD053335-04/15. Contact her at 831-656-0236 or kelly@lesnickcompany.com.
TOP VIDEOS

