Tonight
Rain likely with a few thunderstorms. Low 36F. Winds E at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 100%.
Updated: April 8, 2015 @ 10:53 pm
Portage Public Library
The Historic
Jan 1
Butch Dill
FILE - In this March 7, 2015 file photo, President Barack Obama and Malia Obama arrive at Air Force One at Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, Ala. Some teenagers get driving lessons from their parents. Other teens are taught by licensed instructors. But Malia Obama isn’t your average 16-year-old: Her driving lessons were provided by the U.S. Secret Service. That’s what Malia’s mother, Michelle Obama, tells celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview scheduled to air Thursday. (AP Photo/Butch Dill, File)
Rogelio V. Solis
FILE - In this Feb. 27, 2013 file photo, first lady Michelle Obama and Food Network chef Rachel Ray greet students at a "Let's Move!" program at the Eastside and Northside Elementary Schools in Clinton, Miss. Some teenagers get driving lessons from their parents. Other teens are taught by licensed instructors. But Malia Obama isn’t your average 16-year-old: Her driving lessons were provided by the U.S. Secret Service. That’s what Malia’s mother, Michelle Obama, tells celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview scheduled to air Thursday. (AP Photo/Rogelio V. Solis, File)
AP
First lady: Secret Service agents taught Malia how to drive
By DARLENE SUPERVILLE
8 hrs ago
Butch Dill
FILE - In this March 7, 2015 file photo, President Barack Obama and Malia Obama arrive at Air Force One at Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, Ala. Some teenagers get driving lessons from their parents. Other teens are taught by licensed instructors. But Malia Obama isn’t your average 16-year-old: Her driving lessons were provided by the U.S. Secret Service. That’s what Malia’s mother, Michelle Obama, tells celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview scheduled to air Thursday. (AP Photo/Butch Dill, File)
Rogelio V. Solis
FILE - In this Feb. 27, 2013 file photo, first lady Michelle Obama and Food Network chef Rachel Ray greet students at a "Let's Move!" program at the Eastside and Northside Elementary Schools in Clinton, Miss. Some teenagers get driving lessons from their parents. Other teens are taught by licensed instructors. But Malia Obama isn’t your average 16-year-old: Her driving lessons were provided by the U.S. Secret Service. That’s what Malia’s mother, Michelle Obama, tells celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview scheduled to air Thursday. (AP Photo/Rogelio V. Solis, File)
WASHINGTON (AP) — Some teenagers get driving lessons from their parents. Other teens are taught by licensed instructors.
But Malia Obama isn't your average 16-year-old: Her driving lessons were provided by the U.S. Secret Service.
Asked who taught Malia how to drive, first lady Michelle Obama told celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview that it was the armed agents who provide around-the-clock security for the family.
"The Secret Service, actually, because they wouldn't let me in the car with her," Mrs. Obama said in an excerpt of the interview that was released by Ray's program. The full interview is set to air Thursday.
Mrs. Obama hasn't driven herself in seven or eight years, she said.
She added that driving gives Malia "a sense of normalcy," helping her feel like the rest of her friends who are also driving. "And my kids have got to learn how to live in the world like normal kids."
When Ray says that the Obamas seem "so grounded," the first lady replies that her "hope is just to make sure that they (her daughters) come out of this thing as functioning adults, you know?"
Mrs. Obama, whose younger daughter Sasha is 13, said Malia also drives herself around Washington.
___
More from WiscNews
Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion
Notifications from this discussion will be disabled.
Cancel
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

