Maryland governor says budget 'a long way' from resolved
Hogan says he's concerned about lack of progress on his agenda and the budget with a week left
POSTED: 04:19 PM EDT Apr 06, 2015 
ANNAPOLIS, Md.  -
(AP) — Republican Gov. Larry Hogan says he is concerned about how his legislative agenda and Maryland budget measures are progressing, as the Maryland General Assembly enters its last week.
More from WMDT
Hogan said in an interview Monday with The Associated Press that he was elected because voters want more fiscal responsibility and tax relief. He says some in the Democratic-controlled Legislature "haven't quite gotten that message yet."
Hogan is especially critical of a change the Senate added to his proposal for a tax break for small businesses. The change added an audit of personal property tax returns filed by businesses on taxes they have paid.
The governor says that's "a nonstarter," because it would put a greater burden on businesses. Hogan says he hopes to work out a bipartisan solution by April 13.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Comments
The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. Please note by clicking on "Post" you acknowledge that you have read the Terms Of Service and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. 
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

