Posted: Tuesday, April 7, 2015 12:01 am
AUSTIN — A Texas House public education panel overwhelmingly approved an Austin lawmaker’s bill Monday that would allow some fast-growth school districts to exceed a 24-year-old state limit on bond debt — a proposal many Central Texas schools are backing as they struggle to house an influx of students, but which fiscal hawk groups oppose.
The House Public Education Committee voted 8-1 to send House Bill 506 to the full Texas House. It is the furthest the perennial legislation has ever made it in the legislative process.
A 2009 bill allowing school districts to exceed the 50-cent-per-$100-valuation debt service limit — set in 1991 — died in the education committee. State Rep. Jimmie Don Aycock, R-Killeen, who now chairs the panel, filed that legislation.
The bill the panel approved Monday, filed by state Rep. Eddie Rodriguez, D-Austin, would allow an estimated 20 school districts with a tax rate of 45 cents or higher — including six in Central Texas — to exceed the cap as long as they meet certain criteria, including adopting a capital-improvement plan and showing that exceeding the limit would save them money in the long run.
The districts still would have to get voter approval for the bonds.
Michelle Smith, executive director of the Fast Growth School Coalition, which pushed the legislation, said the group is “thrilled” it finally made it out of committee and will be “working the (House) members really, really hard” to convince them the proposal is not a tax increase.
“This is the farthest we’ve ever gotten with this particular issue, but you also have to remember it wasn’t an issue starting until about 2007, so in the grand scheme of things it wasn’t really a problem until fairly recently,” said Smith, a former lobbyist who is also Aycock’s daughter.
Since that year, the number of school districts that have bumped up against the cap has grown from none or one to nearly three dozen, according to data provided by the Texas Education Agency. There are about 1,000 regular school districts in the state.
The proposal looks to face some opposition in the House and certainly the more conservative Texas Senate, where Sen. Juan “Chuy” Hinojosa, D-McAllen, has filed a similar bill that has been referred to the Senate Education Committee but has yet to be scheduled for a public hearing.
A policy analyst at the conservative Texas Public Policy Foundation said earlier this year the think tank has “significant concerns about any attempt to allow more debt to be issued to burden Texas taxpayers.”
“It’s always an uphill battle with this particular bill because people see it as a tax increase when in actuality it sometimes can save districts millions of dollars, but getting people to slow down and have that conversation instead of just a knee-jerk reaction to vote ‘no’ is always a challenge for us,” Smith said.
Opponents also could seize on any perceived conflict of interest given the Smith-Aycock relation, as they have in the past.
Previously, Aycock said he simply would abstain from voting on any legislation for which his daughter is lobbying, including Rodriguez’s bill, but he voted for it Monday.
State Rep. Dan Huberty, R-Houston, was the lone dissenting vote.
But in January, Aycock announced Smith would resign from lobbying amid persistent criticism from conservative activists.
“When I was registered to lobby he was going to abstain on issue,” Smith said Monday. “I kind of thought that he would abstain . . . but we hadn’t visited about it.”
A call to Aycock was not returned.
Posted in B on Tuesday, April 7, 2015 12:01 am.
Tomorrow
No commercial reproduction without written consent.
Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
Screen Name or Email

