A
A
A
MARK REIS/AP
Jeb Bush, who signed the nation’s first “stand your ground” law in 2005 while governor of Florida — but doesn’t own a gun himself — will speak at the NRA's annual meeting.
Expect them to get the lead out.
Republicans making moves to seek the 2016 nomination for President will target the support of the gun lobby Friday at the annual meeting of the National Rifle Association .
Jeb Bush, who signed the nation’s first “stand your ground” law in 2005 while governor of Florida — but doesn’t own a gun himself — will speak at the Nashville event.
Also in the lineup: Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, who has been gaining ground in early polling — and once hit the stump sporting a bandage he said he needed after hurting his thumb while pheasant hunting.
Two senators, Ted Cruz of Texas — who has hunted in the early voting state of Iowa — and Marco Rubio of Florida will take the stage.
Joe Skipper/AP
Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker is also set to speak at the event.
Perennial presidential campaign flirt Donald Trump also made the cut — but Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, who jumped into the race this week, isn’t on the roster. He is linked to another pro-gun group, the National Association for Gun Rights.
Another possible GOP candidate, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, didn’t get an invite.
An NRA spokeswoman has said given that “this year’s leadership forum has the longest list of potential presidential candidates in the history of the event,” only so many speaking slots were available.
Courting Second Amendment fans has tripped up contenders in the past.
Carolyn Kaster/AP
Marco Rubio of Florida will also take the stage.
Ex-Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney had to dial back his rhetoric in 2008 after his experience as a self-described “lifelong hunter” turned out to have been limited to just two outings.
And former Mayor Rudy Giuliani became comedy fodder after interrupting his big pitch to NRA members to answer a cell phone call from his wife.
“This is a contest among candidates who have already been given an A rating by the NRA, so they’ll be competing for the one eventual A+,” said Larry Sabato of the University of Virginia's Center for Politics.
“Eventually, the NRA will bestow their blessing on the emerging nominee,” he said.
Editors' Picks
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

