Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Evan Spiegel on Snapchat: 'Call us entertainment'
Snapchat's Evan Spiegel opens up: "We don't necessarily want to be first. Want to be the first to get it right."
Post to Facebook
Evan Spiegel on Snapchat: 'Call us entertainment' Snapchat's Evan Spiegel opens up: "We don't necessarily want to be first. Want to be the first to get it right." Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HJKr7A
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Evan Spiegel on Snapchat: 'Call us entertainment'
Exectives of some of the biggest names in tech and business meet in Palos Verdes, CA to speak at Code Conference while startups clamor for attention. Sean Fujiwara
Edward C. Baig , USA TODAY 2:34 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
Snapchat CEO and co-founder Evan Spiegel in front of Snapchat's Venice, CA headquarters.
(Photo: Jefferson Graham, USA TODAY)
RANCHO PALOS VERDES, Calif. — Snapchat's 24-year old CEO, Evan Spiegel, offered this recently on why he didn't sell to Facebook.
"When we decided not to sell our business, people called us a lot of things besides crazy," he said. "Things like arrogant and entitled. The same words that I've heard used to describe our generation time and time again -- the Millennial generation, the Me generation. Well it's true. We do have a sense of entitlement, a sense of ownership. After all, this is the world we were born into and we are responsible for it."
Such remarks play into Spiegel's frat boy image.
But Spiegel projected a serious image as the opening night speaker at the Code Conference here, "I'm not a great manager. I try to be a great leader," he conceded.
Interviewed by Re/code's Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher, Spiegel said that "obviously content is really important to our business," he said.
Snapchat has been trying to discover what it means to build a platform for journalists.
"We don't necessarily want to be the first," Spiegel said. "We want to be the first to get it right."
Snapchat wants to become publisher friendly, but Spiegel concedes that, "We probably don't come close to any of our partners because we're not that good, yet."
Of course, Snapchat originally lured its young audience with a photo and video messaging app built around the fact that those messages disappeared within 10 seconds. Snapchat is now used by nearly 100 million people in developing markets. People send 700 million photos daily.
As for the company's growth from here, he said, "We're much more interested in increasing engagement rather than getting big...making sure people who are on our service just love it." That he says is where Snapchat's "maniacal focus" is, he said.
Asked for ways to improve the Snapchat service, Spiegel said he'd like users not have to hold their finger down on the screen while shooting video. He did not offer a timeframe on when that might happen.
Among other topics, Spiegel said he's not rushing into bringing out a competitive offering to the live streaming Meerkat and Periscope apps. We're sitting back and learning and have nothing going on right now along those lines, he said.
Other topics:
-- Regarding speculation that there might be a tech bubble. "There will be a correction. It's a question of when."
-- On diversity. "I think technology is a problem for everyone," not just in tech.
-- On a Snapchat IPO. "We have a plan to do that" but offered no further detail.
-- On what Snapchat is now. Though he kept stressing three lines of focus, "camera, communications and content," Spiegel ultimately said, "Call us entertainment."
-- On his managerial style. "My team would say I'm very decisive, but I change my mind a lot."
-- On adding advertising to messaging on Snapchat. "We don't want to be put ads in communication. It's sort of rude." He adds that "there's a massive opportunity around our content products."
TOP VIDEOS
May 26, 2015

