Updated:                                 7:45 am
Updated:                                 8:01 am
Updated:                                 6:05 am
posted: April 03
posted: April 03
Posted: Thursday, April 2, 2015 9:35 am
WASHINGTON (AP) — It never hurts presidential candidates to have senators owe them a favor or two. That's why Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, a potential GOP presidential contender, is offering to have lunch with a donor to the National Republican Senatorial Committee, the party's fundraising arm for Senate campaigns.
"One winner will travel to Wisconsin for a special lunch and conversation with me and an overnight stay in the Badger State," Walker says in a fundraising email the NRSC is sending Thursday.
To be sure, Walker will have his own massive fundraising needs if he runs for president. But with nominating caucuses and primaries scheduled in many states next year, it's handy to have local congressmen, senators, governors and others feeling a bit indebted.
"Our conservative reforms transformed Wisconsin's economy, creating thousands of new jobs and empowering hardworking taxpayers," Walker claims in the email. It asks for donations of $5 or more, and the NRSC says the winner will be chosen randomly.
___
Some Democratic senators already are sending back campaign donations from their New Jersey colleague Robert Menendez, who was indicted Wednesday on corruption charges. Will they also remove his image from their Senate and campaign sites?
A good test will be the official website of Sen. Charles Schumer of New York, who's in line to become the next Democratic Senate leader. As of midday Thursday, an image on Schumer's home page showed him smiling at a podium with a few senators standing behind him. Menendez is shown beaming over Schumer's right shoulder. Less in-focus are Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada and, blurrier still, Schumer's fellow New York senator, Democrat Kirsten Gillibrand.
It might be fun to "watch this space" and see if Menendez is eventually cropped or airbrushed away, like an old Soviet official falling from favor in the Kremlin.
Posted in Politics on Thursday, April 2, 2015 9:35 am.
Similar Stories
Rules of Conduct
1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.
3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.
4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.
7 Keep it Relevant. Stick to the topic under discussion.
8 Be Responsible. No anonymous profiles are allowed. Show your true self and stand up for your opinions.
Welcome to the discussion.
Screen Name or Email
Login
facebook
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
El Centro, CA 92243
All
News
Sports
Opinion
Photos
Video
Login
facebook

