Recent
Recent
Saved
Come July 3, ridesharing for money will finally be legal.
Gov. Doug Ducey signed a measure which spells out the requirements for liability insurance that has to be carried by both the companies that arrange the rides as well as the individuals who use their own vehicles. That specifically means at least $250,000 when a rider is in the vehicle, with lower amounts for times when the person is awaiting a fare.
Companies like Uber and Lyft have a business model of maintaining web sites where people can log in to request rides. The firms, known as "transportation network companies,'' then arrange for someone to pick up the person.
Payment is made online, with the company forwarding a portion of the amount to the driver.
The legislation became necessary after state officials began citing drivers for the companies for offering rides for hire without complying with requirements that apply to taxi firms.
Ducey suspended enforcement of the law shortly after taking office, allowing the firms and their drivers to continue operating, albeit in a legally gray area. But the governor said he wanted some permanent resolution to the problem.
Aside from the insurance requirements, the law requires rideshare companies to implement a policy prohibiting the use of drugs or alcohol by drivers. There also are screening requirements for those who want to drive and prohibitions against using anyone with at least three moving violations in the prior three years or one major violation, like reckless driving.
Companies also could not use anyone convicted of drunken driving in the prior seven years, is listed on a national sex offender registry database, or is not at least 19 years old.
Gasoline taxes
Forget about saving that penny a gallon on your gasoline, at least for the time being.
A special levy designed to finance cleanup from leaking underground storage tanks was supposed to self-destruct at the end of this year. Legislation signed Thursday by Gov. Doug Ducey extends that through 2023.
Arizona established a program in 1986 to help prevent, detect and clean up releases of gasoline and other hazardous products from underground storage tanks. Tank owners who took corrective action are entitled to financial help from the state.
But the program has lasted far longer than planned as the number of leaking tanks -- and the cost of cleanup -- has exceeded expectations.
The legislation drew some opposition. Sen. Steve Farley, D-Tucson, complained that some of the money has gone to major oil companies like Chevron and Exxon Mobil rather than mom-and-pop operations.
Asbestos lawsuits
Individuals who claim they have asbestos-caused health problems will now have new procedural hurdles before their lawsuit can proceed.
Legislation signed Tuesday by the governor requires those who sue to fill out certain forms about what claims they also are pursuing through other means, such as through trusts being administered to handle the assets of now-bankrupt manufacturers.
Proponents said they want to prohibit those who were injured from obtaining double recovery, once through a national trust and once through Arizona courts. But Rep. Debbie McCune Davis, D-Phoenix, said all the measure does is mean more paperwork for those who need money to deal with their health problems.
Weights and measure
Gov. Doug Ducey signed a measure Thursday that eventually will mean abolition of the state Department of Weights and Measures.
Ducey, who asked for the change, said he believes the various duties of the department can be divided among other agencies, saving administrative costs. Lawmakers did not like his plan, instead putting most of the agency into the Department of Agriculture, with some functions shifted to the Department of Transportation.
The change will not take effect until mid 2016 to give lawmakers and affected businesses a chance to review the plan and, if necessary, tweak the law next year.
Bank insurance
State-chartered banks will not get an additional option to purchase insurance.
Current law requires banks to buy coverage of at least $250,000 for each depositor from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Legislation crafted by Sen. David Farnsworth, R-Mesa, would have given the additional option of getting coverage from the National Credit Union Association.
The governor vetoed the bill, saying its language "is not consistent with existing federal law."
Copyright 2015 Arizona Daily Sun. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with azdailysun.com account:
Username & Password Required!

