Chronicle News Services
Milwaukee officials, leaders of the Wisconsin state Legislature and the president of the Milwaukee Bucks all said Tuesday that they’re close to reaching a deal to pay for a new $500 million arena for the NBA team.
The goal is to announce a deal Wednesday, said Rep. John Nygren , R-Marinette, co-chairman of the Legislature’s budget-writing committee. Nygren’s committee is finalizing the state budget this week and intends to include a Bucks financing component.
Talks have been ongoing for months to come up with a way to pay for the arena, which is part of a planned $1 billion entertainment district in downtown Milwaukee. Without a new stadium by 2017, the NBA has said it will buy back the team and relocate it.
No one has said publicly what the terms of a deal will look like. But Assembly Speaker Robin Vos , R-Rochester, said after Tuesday’s meeting that the state’s contribution would be “significantly less” than the $220 million that Gov. Scott Walker proposed in January.
Elsewhere
in Tour of Italy
Spanish cyclist Alberto Contador put on a demonstration of his climbing skills on the steep Mortirolo pass and extended his lead in the 16th stage of the Giro d’Italia.
Spanish rider Mikel Landa posted his second consecutive stage victory after getting clearance from the Astana team to leave behind captain Fabio Aru , who again struggled.
Landa required just over 5 hours over the 108-mile leg from Pinzolo to Aprica, which included five categorized climbs.
Dutch rider Steven Kruijswijk finished second, 38 seconds behind, and 2007 Tour de France champion Contador crossed third with the same time.
Aru finished nearly three minutes behind Landa, who moved ahead of the Italian into second.
Contador had some mechanical problems on a descent before the Mortirolo but surged into the lead on the climb, passing one rider after another.
College golf: Casey Danielson clinched two matches to lead the Stanford women’s team to the NCAA final against Baylor in Bradenton, Fla. The Cardinal defeated Arizona 4-1 in the quarterfinals, and USC 3-2 in the semifinals. Stanford is making its 30th NCAA tournament appearance and is seeking its first national title. The final matches can be seen on Golf Channel at noon.
Horse racing: Trainer Bob Baffert was pleased with Kentucky Derby and Preakness winner American Pharoah’s workout as he prepares for the Belmont Stakes and his attempt to become horse racing’s first Triple Crown winner since 1978.
The colt breezed four furlongs in 48 seconds at Churchill Downs after Baffert and American Pharoah’s regular exercise rider, Martin Garcia , flew to Kentucky for the workout. Jockey Victor Espinoza will again have the mount in the Belmont on June 6.
College football: Former Notre Dame offensive lineman Matt Hegarty is transferring to Oregon, where he will be eligible to play immediately as a graduate student.
College baseball: Washington State fired baseball coach Donnie Marbut after 11 seasons and a record of 314-304.
Latest Sports Videos

