Election Day: Officials in Milwaukee took questions on amendment referendum, voter ID
Posted 5:01 pm, April 7, 2015, by Krystle Kacner , Updated at 05:18pm, April 7, 2015
In this story
Election officials in Milwaukee estimated between 15-20% of voters would show up at the polls Tuesday. While some things suggested a possible lower turnout (spring break, for example), election officials said what was on the ballot might encourage more voters to turn out.
On the ballot, a constitutional amendment that would change the way the state’s Supreme Court’s leadership is chosen. Currently, the Supreme Court’s chief justice is selected based on seniority. On Election Day, voters were asked whether the Supreme Court’s chief justice should be chosen by a majority of justices.
Milwaukee County election officials said they believe this issue could be a draw for voters.
“You really want to understand the question, the history of the question. It`s a binding referendum question — meaning there would be an amendment made to the state constitution if it passes,” Neil Albrecht, executive director of the Milwaukee Election Commission said.
“I had to read the ballot a couple times,” a voter said.
“I wasn`t quite sure but I did look it up and decided which way I wanted to vote,” a voter said.
Albrecht says his office got its fair share of questions on the amendment referendum as well as questions about the voter ID law.
“The newly-passed photo ID requirement does not go into affect until the 2016 election cycle, so people have eight months to learn about the requirement, to get those photo IDs, and to be prepared for the very busy election cycle next year,” Albrecht said.
One voter said he hoped it would get busier at the polls later Tuesday — compared to what he saw while voting.
“It’s disappointing not to see that many people out here,” the voter said.
The polls close at 8:00 p.m.
43.038902 -87.906474
Related stories
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Popular
Latest News
• Copyright © 2015, WITI
Join 1,691 other followers
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

