By Robert Salonga
Related Stories
May 25:
Mar 15:
Nov 14:
Nov 13:
Oct 25:
Oct 6:
Oct 2:
Sep 27:
Sep 18:
Sep 15:
SANTA CLARA -- Police dispatch recordings reveal the early-Monday arrest of former San Francisco 49ers lineman Ray McDonald was spurred by an emergency call alleging he violently broke through a bedroom door to get to his ex-fiancée and their infant, a clash that led to his dismissal from the Chicago Bears before he ever played a single snap for his new team.
McDonald is free on $15,000 bail after he was booked on suspicion of one count each of domestic violence and child endangerment, both misdemeanors. It was the third case accusing McDonald of violence against a woman since August, when he was arrested on suspicion of domestic violence involving the same woman in Monday's allegations, when she was pregnant and they were still engaged.
Former San Francisco 49er Ray McDonald leaves the Santa Clara County main jail on Monday afternoon, May 25, 2015, in San Jose, Calif., after being arrested on suspicion of domestic violence and child endangerment.   (Karl Mondon)
In the dispatch recording, made available through a subscription-based online archive, a Los Banos woman called 911 and told emergency dispatchers that her daughter, McDonald's ex-fiancée, called to say McDonald was acting violently at her Santa Clara luxury apartment off Lick Mill Boulevard. The CHP released a redacted recording of the 911 call late Tuesday afternoon.
The 3:48 a.m. emergency call, which was relayed to Santa Clara police, also alleged that when the woman tried to barricade herself in a bedroom with the infant she had with McDonald, the 6-foot-3, 290-pound defense lineman "broke down" the door and tried to take the baby from her before leaving, by himself, in a car.
Advertisement
"She said she received a call from her daughter ... advising that her boyfriend Ray McDonald was being violent," the dispatcher said. "She tried to lock herself in her bedroom but he broke the door down ... Ex is trying to leave now with her infant."
Later in the recording, an officer said, "If he decides he wants to run, we're not going to chase, we know who he is."
Former San Francisco 49er Ray McDonald leaves the Santa Clara County main jail Monday afternoon, on Monday May 25, 2015, in San Jose, Calif., after being arrested on suspicion of domestic violence and child endangerment.  (Karl Mondon)
Santa Clara police declined comment on the audio recordings. They deferred to a news release stating their officers responded to the apartment, which was leased by McDonald, and determined that he physically assaulted his ex-fiancée while she was holding the baby. They tracked him to a San Jose home on Terra Nova Lane registered to his former teammate, recently retired 49er Justin Smith, and around 7 a.m. took McDonald into custody.
McDonald's attorney, Steve DeFilippis, acknowledged Tuesday that his client and ex-fiancée had an argument, but said he said it never became "physical.''
"From the information I have, yes, there was an argument,'' DeFilippis said. "But there was no physical contact, and if so, there was no crime.''
The clash was witnessed by McDonald's driver and the ex-fiancée apparently videotaped at least some of it, evidence that DeFilippis claimed will show McDonald never tried to imprison the woman or attack her.
"They're arguing and he gets mad and says he's leaving and says he's taking his TVs,'' DeFilippis said.
DeFilippis said the woman  had ample opportunity to leave during or after the argument if she felt unsafe.
"Something got confused between her and her mother,'' the lawyer said.
It was not clear Tuesday when Santa Clara police would forward the case to prosecutors for review.
As it stands, McDonald does not have any current criminal charges against him in the three cases that have been brought against him since an Aug. 31 clash at his birthday party at his Bentley Ridge Drive home in San Jose, which he has since put up for sale. Prosecutors cited insufficient evidence in the case after the alleged victim did not cooperate with investigators.
But in December, McDonald was accused of sexually assaulting another woman, also at the home, prompting the 49ers to dismiss him from the team. He got a second chance with the Chicago Bears, who in March signed him to a one-year, non-guaranteed $1.5 million contract to play for former 49ers defensive coordinator Vic Fangio.
It was around that time that McDonald filed a defamation suit against the woman who accused him of sexual assault. Earlier this month, the woman counter-sued McDonald and former teammate Ahmad Brooks and accused them of having sexual contact with her while she was semi-conscious after a fall by the swimming pool.
McDonald told Chicago-area media last month that he was innocent of the accusations against him, that was "trying to move foward" with the Bears, who signed him despite some initial reservations from executives about his personal conduct. After his latest arrest, he was once again without a team.
"We believe in second chances, but when we signed Ray we were very clear what our expectations were if he was to remain a Bear," General Manager Ryan Pace said in a statement Monday. "He was not able to meet the standard and the decision was made to release him."
Staff writer Tracey Kaplan contributed to this report. Contact Robert Salonga at 408-920-5002. Follow him at Twitter.com/robertsalonga .
RAY MCDONALD'S LEGAL ISSUES
May 24, 2014: San Jose police respond to a conflict at McDonald's house where his fiancée reportedly held a gun at her side.
Aug. 31: McDonald is arrested on suspicion of felony domestic violence at his San Jose home, where teammates were attending his 30th birthday party. The alleged victim was McDonald's pregnant fiancée.
Nov. 10: Prosecutors decide not to file domestic-violence charges against McDonald, citing insufficient evidence.
Dec. 17: San Jose police reveal a woman claimed she was sexually assaulted by McDonald at his home earlier in the week. Within hours, McDonald is released by the 49ers.
Mar. 16: As he launched his pursuit of another NFL job, McDonald files a defamation suit against the woman accusing him of sexual assault.
March 24: McDonald signs a one-year, non-guaranteed, $1.5 million deal with the Chicago Bears, despite initial reservations from executives, who pledged to heavily scrutinize his personal conduct.
May 25: Santa Clara police arrest McDonald on suspicion of misdemeanor domestic violence and child endangerment after an encounter at the apartment he leased for his ex-fiancée and their baby. Later in the day, the Bears release him from the team.

