Top Stories in Local
Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
Top Stories in Lifestyle
On the Move: Houston Relocation Professionals' event addresses impact of oil prices
Top Stories in Jobs
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
Menendez allies launch support campaign after indictment
By JILL COLVIN, Associated Press | April 3, 2015 | Updated: April 3, 2015 2:07am
Page 1 of 1
Photo By John Minchillo/AP 
U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez waits to speak outside federal court, Thursday, April 2, 2015, in Newark, N.J. Menendez, the top Democrat on the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was indicted on corruption charges, accused of using his office to improperly benefit an eye doctor and political donor.
Photo By John Minchillo/AP 
U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez, left, leaves federal court, Thursday, April 2, 2015, in Newark, N.J. Menendez, the top Democrat on the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was indicted on corruption charges, accused of using his office to improperly benefit an eye doctor and political donor.
Photo By John Minchillo/AP 
U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez, right, leaves federal court, Thursday, April 2, 2015, in Newark, N.J. Menendez, the top Democrat on the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was indicted on corruption charges, accused of using his office to improperly benefit an eye doctor and political donor.
NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — Allies of New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez have launched a coordinated public relations campaign to support him through what is likely to be a long and expensive legal fight over a litany of federal corruption charges.
Menendez pleaded not guilty Thursday to charges that he accepted nearly $1 million in gifts and campaign contributions from a longtime friend in exchange for a stream of political favors.
His supporters have been working quietly behind the scenes since news reports emerged in March suggesting an indictment was imminent.
A spokesman for Menendez, Steven Sandberg , said that the efforts — including an outpouring of support from elected Democrats — were organic.
"A lot of people wanted to show their support and provide statements and we were happy to take them," he said.
Still, he said, "I think it's pretty clear that we were prepared. The office was prepared and certainly the senator was prepared and is mounting a fight."
The supporters' efforts became apparent beginning Wednesday, when supporting statements began pouring into reporters' inboxes shortly after the 14-count indictment was filed.
The New Jersey Democratic State Committee has sent at least six news releases since then with statements from nearly three dozen local and national officials and community leaders. The releases include the hashtag #IStandWithBob and advertised a new @IStandWithBob Twitter account that had tweeted more than 70 times by Thursday evening.
There's also a slick website, istandwithbob.com, that includes a roundup of positive statements and news coverage as well as a video from Menendez responding to the charges. It also has an "FAQ" with questions like, "What does it mean to be indicted?"
The response begins: "An indictment is the paper that prosecutors write and present in a grand jury where the Senator had no chance to respond or participate."
The site, which also seeks contributions, was paid for by the Menendez for Senate campaign committee, which has $1.45 million cash on hand, according to its most recent federal campaign filing. Visitors to menendezfornj.com are now redirected to the site.
Much of the orchestration has been led by Michael Soliman , a longtime Menendez adviser who previously worked as the senator's state director and managed his 2012 re-election campaign.
Soliman, who now works for the firm Mercury Public Affairs, said that, immediately after the story broke, countless supporters started calling the senator, his office and his staff, asking how they could help.
"We were inundated and quite frankly overwhelmed with phone calls of outrage in support of the senator. So right away, naturally, with all of these phone calls, we said to ourselves: How do we capture this?" he said. "They wanted their voice to be heard, they wanted to help."
In addition to launching the website, he said he worked to help craft the officials' statements and provided allies with quotes and press clippings, as first reported by NJ.com. And he said the efforts would continue over the coming days and weeks.
There was other help as well.  George Kasimos, an advocate who founded the website StopFemaNow.com, helped to promote and attended a rally supporting Menendez Wednesday evening. He said the senator had helped victims of Superstorm Sandy immensely.
"Look, I'm a Jersey guy," he said Thursday. "If you do something for me, I will do something for you. I've got your back."
7/87/87/8____
Associated Press writers Michael Catalini in Trenton, New Jersey, and Jack Gillum in Washington contributed to this report
Featured Galleries
Top Stories and In-Depth Investigative Journalism
exclusively on
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

