On Force.com
By Dan Heilman  / NewsFactor Network
PUBLISHED:
MAY
26
2015
The future of Google’s Android operating system is an ongoing topic of discussion among tech observers. But they got a bit of news from the horse’s mouth before the start of this week’s Google I/O developers’ conference in San Francisco. Google’s Vice President of Engineering for Android Hiroshi Lockheimer (pictured) spoke with the press about what might be coming from Android, the state of the company’s Chrome OS, and more.
Lockheimer confirmed the announcement of Android M at I/O. He also spoke about where Android came from and how it is evolving in an industry with more and more interconnected devices.
"I had no idea that this is where we would be nine-plus years later," Lockheimer said in an interview. "Maybe we should have been dreaming bigger dreams, but this has far exceeded my expectations, and it's kind of really humbling, actually. I'm wearing a watch that's running Android now. I have a TV set at home that's running Android. I'm trying out cars that have Android running in them."
Fewer Updates
In general, the Android operating system has been known for being relatively free of major flaws and being updated relatively infrequently, usually just once a year. However, there is still plenty of room for growth and improvement, especially considering the flop that Android's Lollipop version has been -- generating countless complaints from frustrated users and hundreds of horrified comments from our own readers.
"As we’ve grown as a platform, we realize that to some extent predictability is important for the whole industry: developers, manufacturers, operators, and consumers, frankly," Lockheimer told Fast Company. "So we’ve landed with sort of a yearly cadence of big releases... for instance, one year we release J, the next year we release K, and then the year after that L, and then this year we’ll launch M, and so you can predict what will happen next year."
Lockheimer also said that Android isn’t expanding to different devices simply for the sake of pushing Android to new hardware. Google wants the focus to be on enhancing the user experience across a variety of screens, and on creating one coordinated experience instead of a bunch of different flavors, he said.
OS Convergence?
Last year, Lockheimer was put in charge of Chrome OS as well as Android, a move that made some wonder if the plan was to somehow unify the two operating systems. Lockheimer didn’t confirm or deny that such a plan is in place. But he did mention that Google might find it valuable to have two different operating systems with different focuses on different user experiences.
"There’s silicon and there’s software , and those two things need to talk to each other," he said. "But where they do start to diverge -- or maybe specialize is a better word -- is as you get closer and closer to the user experience."
We'll know more this week and will be sharing the news firsthand as it unfolds at the Google I/O developer 's conference, running May 28-29 at Moscone Center West in San Francisco.
Comment:
Name:
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in Software-as-a-Service. Its award-winning CRM solution helps 82,400 customers worldwide manage and share business information over the Internet. Experience CRM success. Click here for a FREE 30-day trial.
MORE IN MOBILE TECH
Next Article >
Product Information and Resources for Technology You Can Use To Boost Your Business
CRM Systems
NEWSFACTOR.COM

