26 May 2015
27 May 2015
Let’s flashback to last year where the Android 5 firmware was released. No one could imagine the problems that would come from it. The issues that were reported included problems to the security of the devices, the camera and some of the units became unusable. Now that a year has passed, people can finally rejoice. Google has been releasing the Android Lollipop 5.1.1 update to the Nexus 4, Nexus 5,  and the Nexus 9 LTE models.
Now, the update is about 25 megabytes in size. it’s not a big file and despite the impact it will have on the Nexus devices, it’s considered not a major update. Strange right?
According to Vine Report , they write that the update will “mostly address critical bug fixes for memory leak issues and stability improvements.  For such a gravity of issue, it is most of the time assumed that fixes be addressed as soon as possible. Nonetheless, the update to address the bugs was released only a year later.”
Author Adam Mills of the website Gotta Be Mobile , talked about this experiences with the update. “Android 5.1.1 has worked out well for me though that’s after only a few days.” He said, “Bugs and issues can pop up at any time. That said, if you’re experiencing major issues on Android 5.1, I think it’s probably worth a shot at this point. I haven’t seen any reboots and it appears to be very stable.”
Riciu Andrei of Android Geeks also talked about his experiences and noted some other new features of the udpate.  “I was mentioning earlier that Android 5.1 was just a maintenance release, but, even so, it arrived with some new features.” He said, “It brought improvements to the ‘Wi-Fi’ and ‘Bluetooth’ tiles in Quick Settings: in 5.1 if you press the ‘Wi-Fi’ or ‘Bluetooth’ text a list of nearby Wi-Fi networks or Bluetooth devices will appear, compared to 5.0, where the same action opened the respective settings section. The update also brought an animation for the ‘Auto-rotate’ tile and removable ‘Hotspot’ and ‘Color inversion’ dynamic tiles.”
Google seems to have averted a disaster for Android and Nexus users. By implementing this update, they demonstrate that they are listening to their customers and aren’t abandoning them. Do any of you have the update? Have you been experiencing any improvements?
2
SHARES
Chris Carlson
Hello fellow viewers, I'm Chris Carlson and I'll be your guide for everything that is technology. If there is something new out there, you'll know that I'll find it.
You Might Also Like
Help me at iran
on Factory Reset option is not working properly on Android Devices
One might think that a "factory reset" reverses the device to the factory state. But with Android this means the last system version installed with user data removed, hopefully erased.…
Yet another betrayal from our "first do evil" leader Google.
Conventional wisdom among computer enthusiasts tells us that considerable overwriting of the flash memory is required to completely eradicate old files. Usually one must purchase software written exclusively for the…
brainless review
Search for:
Featured Posts
GADGETS SMARTPHONES
Our Authors
Tech Gadget Central is aiming to satisfy the needs of all tech-savvy readers out there. Our goal is to bring clean, reliable news from the mobile industry, and report on any new gadgets that emerge out there. As we live in a world centered around technology (mobile or otherwise), we consider it’s important to be up-to-date with what’s going on.
Pages
SHARE
Android 5.1.1 Lollipop Update for the Nexus

