Douglas Bruce, TABOR founder, accused of violating 6 parole conditions
Posted:   04/10/2015 02:12:16 PM MDT
Updated:   04/10/2015 02:25:58 PM MDT
Douglas Bruce, the author of the Taxpayer's Bill of Rights, was ordered to appear Friday morning in Denver court where his probation was revoked. (Craig F. Walker, The Denver Post)
Apr 9:
Douglas Bruce, the former legislator who authored  the Taxpayer's Bill of Rights,  appeared in Denver court Friday where prosecutors presented allegations he violated six conditions of his parole in a 2012 felony tax evasion conviction.
The state attorney general's office accuses Bruce of failing to timely report a law enforcement contact, not returning a financial disclosure form and  not properly disclosing financial obligations and funds. Bruce is also accused of  failing to provide copies of his income tax records for two years.
A litigated revocation hearing in Denver is scheduled for 65-year-old on June 13. He faces possible prison time if convicted.
"I'm the biggest nose in Colorado," Bruce told reporters after the hearing in which he represented himself. "They're picking on me big time."
Bruce said the accusations against him have political motivations from officials who want to make him look bad.  He said he has been a model probationer in the last three years.
Bruce said he won't get a lawyer to represent him because "cost of representation would not be reimbursed when I'm exonerated."
"I'm not going to spend any money on this charge which I consider to be unsubstantiated," Bruce told the  judge presiding over Friday's hearing.
Advertisement
Bruce was convicted in 2012 of attempting to influence a public servant, tax evasion and filing a false tax return in connection with interest earned on $2 million he put into a charity he founded in 2001. He was sentenced to 180 days in jail and six years of probation.
At the time of his conviction, Bruce called himself a political prisoner. When he left Denver's downtown jail after serving 104 days of his sentence, Bruce threatened to sue the city over what he considered deplorable conditions.
Among the alleged probation violations, prosecutors say he failed to report a law enforcement contact in June 2014 until October 2014. Officials also say Bruce failed to report that he had access to funds belonging to Helen Collins, a Colorado Springs councilwoman.
Collins,  who was the target of a failed recall effort fueled in part by a belief she was too close to Bruce, had an ethics complaint  filed against her in connection with a real estate transaction she made with the former legislator.  Collins was in court with Bruce on Friday to show her support.
"I did nothing wrong," Bruce said.
Jesse Paul: 303-954-1733, jpaul@denverpost.com or twitter.com/JesseAPaul
Article Comments
We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.
We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.
Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
Rockies are 3-0 after sweeping Milwaukee on the road
The Colorado Rockies take on the Chicago Cubs at Coors Field in Denver in their 2015 home opener beginning at 2:10 p.m. 

