Governor ideal to use veto
Gov. John Kasich once more demonstrated a concern with undertaking what’s appropriate rather than scoring political points, by vetoing a proposal that would have targeted out-of-state students seeking to vote in Ohio.The measure, tacked onto the two-year...
The measure, tacked onto the two-year state transportation price range by Republicans in the legislature, was ill-regarded and surely would have sparked legal challenges.
The law would have essential these from out of state to register their cars in the state and get Ohio driver’s licenses within 30 days of registering to vote that would mean spending $75 or far more on charges, as properly as taking the time to navigate that method. Present law efficiently allows people to claim Ohio residency and vote though retaining their out-of-state licenses and registrations, mainly because it doesn't specify a deadline for acquiring Ohio documentation.
It wouldn’t necessarily be a negative point to clarify a vague law and encourage new residents to register their cars in a timely manner. But this proviso seemed clearly targeted at creating a different hurdle to voting for students.
Two years ago, legislative Republicans attempted a various tack. A House-passed bill mentioned that if Ohio universities helped out-of-state students register to vote in Ohio by giving the students documents to prove Ohio residency, then these universities also need to charge these out-of-state students the reduce, in-state tuition price.
That equally ill-regarded proposal was scuttled.
There is a reputable danger that someone could vote in two places: a modest number of circumstances have been brought to light around the nation in which folks voted in more than one state. But the Republicans’ provision would not have stopped that, and Kasich properly pointed out that there are current laws to address voter-integrity concerns. Secretary of State Jon Husted has been a vocal proponent of keeping election integrity and clean voter rolls.
Kasich also appropriately pointed out that the measure could confuse people, thereby discouraging voting.
They wouldn’t have been the only ones confused: Ahead of Kasich’s veto of the provision on Wednesday, state officials admitted it was unclear how the law would be enforced.
It is understandable that some Republican legislators may be irritated by the additional than one hundred,000 students in Ohio becoming encouraged to vote.
They heavily favor Democrats and they frequently are wooed by candidates such as President Barack Obama and bused to the polls following rousing speeches or totally free concerts. They can swing a close election.
But moves such as the rule Kasich vetoed, generally made even though disclaiming any partisan intent, are disingenuous, a distraction and give an easy target for critics to claim “voter suppression."
Ohio currently is a magnet for uninformed and baseless charges of voter suppression from outdoors the state. There is no explanation to add fuel to the fire.
Kasich was correct to strike this measure from the transportation budget, and hold Ohio focused on the continuing turnaround of the state. The legislature should really take notice.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
04 April 2015 Saturday 05:20
12 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.
Breaking News in this Category

