By
Updated Mon, Apr 6, 2015 4:22 pm
A new poll released by Quinnipiac University shows Ohio voters support former Gov. Ted Strickland over incumbent Republican Sen. Rob Portman in next year’s Senate race.
The poll surveyed 1,077 registered Ohio voters by phone. Twenty-seven percent identified as Republican, 28 percent as Democrat, 35 percent as independent, and 9 percent did not identify.
Forty-eight percent of those polled favored Strickland, a Democrat, over Portman. Only 39 percent favored Portman.
Strickland does especially well with independent voters, outpacing Portman by 18 percentage points.
The former governor’s Democratic opponent, Cincinnati City Councilman P.G. Sittenfeld, didn’t fair as well as Portman in the poll. Eighty-nine percent of voters said they don’t know enough about the young councilman to form an opinion of him.
Ohioans approve of marijuana legalization, probably wouldn’t use it personally
More than eight of every 10 Ohio voters polled would support legalization of medical marijuana. About half are okay with people possessing marijuana for personal use.
However, only 14 percent of Ohioans said they would use marijuana if it is legalized.
ResponsibleOhio, a pro-legalization advocacy group, is currently collecting signatures to put a proposal to legalize medical and recreational marijuana on the November ballot.
Kasich enjoys strong support
Ohio Gov. John Kasich received a 61 percent approval rating among those polled, while just 28 percent disapproved of the governor’s job.
Presidential rumors have swirled around Kasich as he continues to entertain the idea of a possible run. High approval numbers could feed that speculation.
Kasich visited New Hampshire, home of the first presidential primary, in March. The governor plans to return to the Granite State this month, where he will speak along with several other Republican presidential hopefuls at the First in the Nation Republican Leadership Summit.
Kasich has also visited South Carolina, home of another early primary, and plans to return this month as well. Earlier in the year, he traveled to western states as a part of his balanced budget tour.
Tags:
NPR Politics
NPR News

