Featured
Featured
Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call (803) 771-8452 or email stateobits@thestate.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By Claire Byun
Derriel Morris was the last person to see Louis Jordan before he took off on his boat at Bucksport Marina and didn’t return.
“I just went to the store to get him coffee creamer, and when I came back he was gone,” Morris said. “I was shocked.”
After 66 days missing at sea, Jordan was finally rescued on Thursday by a passing German freighter and brought ashore by the U.S. Coast Guard in good condition.
“It’s simply amazing he survived,” Morris said. “I cried when I found out he was alive.”
Early Friday, the bearded 37-year-old Jordan walked out of a Norfolk hospital where he was taken reluctantly, showing no obvious ill effects.
“We were expecting worse, with blisters and severe sunburn and dehydration,” said Coast Guard Petty Officer 3rd Class Kyle McCollum, a member of the helicopter crew who brought Jordan to shore.
Jordan hadn’t been heard from since Jan. 23, when he set out on a fishing expedition aboard the single-masted 1950s-era sailboat that had been his home for months.
It was unclear how long after leaving port the boat was damaged, according to the Coast Guard said.
Morris, who’s been docked in the marina in Conway since November 2014, said he immediately called marina manager Jeff Weeks to report the missing boater. After a few weeks, both men thought Jordan hadn’t survived. The men were aware that no one had been able to reach Jordan during that time.
On Jan. 29, the Coast Guard in Miami was notified by the sailor’s father that he hadn’t seen or heard from his son in a week.
Alerts were issued from New Jersey to Miami, and the Coast Guard began a search Feb. 8 but abandoned it 10 days later after failing to confirm any sightings, officials said.
“I was speechless,” Weeks said. “When I found out Louis was alive, it was just unbelievable.”
Jordan was plucked from the Atlantic about 200 miles off the North Carolina coast after furiously waving down the container ship, according to the Coast Guard.
“Most of these stories don’t have a happy ending,” Morris said. “It’s just unbelievable.”
All the boaters at Bucksport Marina – who Morris said are a “close-knit family” – gathered a week after Jordan was reported missing to hold a memorial. The group said prayers and shared stories with each other and Jordan’s family, finally tied a yellow ribbon around Jordan’s boat slip post.
“He’s a good person,” Morris said of Jordan.
Jordan’s boat was upright when he was rescued, but the mast had broken off in heavy weather, and the vessel appeared to have flipped over multiple times, said Thomas Grenz, captain of the German container ship.
Jordan asked his Coast Guard rescuers to drop him off without seeking medical care, but he was taken to a hospital anyway as a precaution.
He demonstrated a firm handshake and weary-looking blue eyes before declining an interview with The Associated Press on Friday.
In interviews with other news organizations, he described making pancakes out of flour fried in oil, collecting rainwater with a bucket, and using a net to catch fish that would swim in and out of his clothes when he put them over the side to rinse them, according to reports from the Associated Press.
Jordan told WAVY-TV in Portsmouth, Virginia, that he rationed his water to about a pint a day.
“Every day I was like, ‘Please God, send me some rain, send me some water,’” he said.
Weeks said Jordan typically caught his own fish and rain water while living at Bucksport, and never ate anything processed. Jordan often walked around barefoot and was “somewhat of a survivalist,” Weeks said.
“With mother nature and a nor’easter, I’m surprised he made it,” Weeks said.
Grenz said he made a copy of Jordan’s U.S. passport describing the American as weighing 290 pounds.
Jordan is now probably only about 200 pounds, and he looked little like the man in the passport photo, Grenz said.
“It was a bit like the movie of Tom Hanks on that movie, you know, ‘Cast Away,’ ” Grenz said.
The Associated Press’ Alan Suderman and Emery P. Dalesio contributed to this report.
Related
Locator map of Cape Hatteras, N.C. where sailor was found 200 miles off coast. | Good TNS
Related
Locator map of Cape Hatteras, N.C. where sailor was found 200 miles off coast. | Good TNS
Editor's Choice Videos
Join the Discussion
The State is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

