Dodgers 8, Braves 0
LOS ANGELES -- First baseman Adrian Gonzalez homered and topped 1,000 career RBIs, and ace Clayton Kershaw fanned 10, sparking the Los Angeles Dodgers to an 8-0 rout of the Atlanta Braves before 40,667 fans at Dodger Stadium on Tuesday night.
Gonzalez, who went 1-for-3 with two RBIs, smacked a 0-1 pitch from Braves starter Julio Teheran into the seats in left to become the 12th active player to reach the RBI milestone. His teammates forced him to the dugout steps to acknowledge the curtain call from the fans.
Right fielder Andre Ethier also drove in a pair of runs, going 1-for-4 with a double.
Kershaw (3-3), who didn't walk a batter, blanked the Braves on four hits in seven innings. The reigning Cy Young winner and National League MVP retired the first 12 hitters he faced before right fielder Nick Markakis led off the fifth with a single.
Markakis had three of Atlanta's five hits.
Teheran (4-2) lasted just 4 1/3 innings, knocked around for eight runs on 10 hits with three walks (one intentional) and a strikeout. Teheran coasted through the first three innings with little trouble, but the Dodgers nailed him for six runs in the fourth, a season high for them in an inning, to break the contest open.
Second baseman Howie Kendrick ignited the Dodgers' outburst in the fourth, lining an RBI single in the gap in left-center to score shortstop Jimmy Rollins for a 1-0 lead.
After an intentional walk to Gonzalez, third baseman Justin Turner singled down the right-field line to plate Kendrick for a 2-0 advantage.
Right fielder Andre Ethier followed with a two-run double to make it 4-0. Catcher A.J. Ellis doubled home Ethier for another run before Kershaw drove in Ellis with a base hit for a 6-0 cushion.
Gonzalez delivered a two-run shot -- his 10th home run this season -- in the fifth to add to the Braves' misery.
NOTES: Dodgers manager Don Mattingly and Braves skipper Fredi Gonzalez refused to address numerous reports of a pending multi-player trade involving Los Angeles 3B Juan Uribe and Atlanta INF Alberto Callaspo. Callaspo, who was a late scratch Tuesday for the second game in a row, reportedly spiked the deal. "It is a business, and these guys know it," Mattingly said. Meanwhile, Gonzalez said he spoke with Callaspo earlier in the day. "Albert's fine; he's good," Gonzalez said. "I'm good with him." ... Braves LHP Alex Wood (2-2, 3.83 ERA) will start against Dodgers RHP Zack Greinke (5-1, 1.48 ERA) in the series finale Wednesday.
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

