Haberkip FARGO, N.D. (AP) — A worker-owner of a Fargo coffee shop who instituted a tongue-in-cheek ban on North Dakota lawmakers for opposing an anti-discrimination bill says the response has been "99.9 percent constructive" and that he made his point, even if...
AP News - Shop: Ban of those who nixed gay rights bill served purpose
FARGO, N.D. (AP) — A worker-owner of a Fargo coffee shop who instituted a tongue-in-cheek ban on North Dakota lawmakers for opposing an anti-discrimination bill says the response has been "99.9 percent constructive" and that he made his point, even if...
FARGO, N.D. (AP) — A worker-owner of a Fargo coffee shop who instituted a tongue-in-cheek ban on North Dakota lawmakers for opposing an anti-discrimination bill says the response has been "99.9 percent constructive" and that he made his point, even if a couple of individuals didn't like it.
Joe Curry, a single of the worker-owners of the Red Raven Espresso Parlor, posted a newspaper web page in the shop earlier this month that showed the 55 Republican state Property members who rejected a bill that would have prohibited discrimination primarily based on sexual orientation in housing, government, public services and the workplace. It was accompanied by a sign saying the legislators were banned, "Unless accompanied by a lesbian, gay, bisexual or transsexual, queer, intersex or asexual particular person."
The stunt got a lot of consideration, with Republican-led legislatures in Indiana and Arkansas possessing just rolled back their new religious objections laws under pressure from critics who regarded as the laws invitations to discriminate against the LGBT neighborhood. Curry mentioned he wanted to use humor to make a severe point and to show help for his customers, whom he describes as mostly "lefties" in a conservative state.
"The ban was, I believed, pretty tongue in cheek, requiring them to be escorted by somebody from the LBGT community," Curry mentioned Wednesday. "I hope that they believed about it, at least, and I hope some of them giggled. But in the finish, they are all welcome right here."
Not everyone giggled.
State Rep. Josh Boschee, a Red Raven typical and the state's only openly gay lawmaker, mentioned he did not like the tactic.
"I realize what they are attempting to make a point but I would have done it differently," the Fargo Democrat mentioned.
Republican state Rep. Jim Kasper, a nearby who voted against the legislation, said he's under no circumstances been in the coffee shop since he doesn't get downtown considerably. He also took the ban seriously and went as far as to support the premise.
"They have the great ideal to refuse any individual they want," Kasper stated.
The ban got focus on cable news shows. MSNBC's Melissa Harris-Perry described it as her "favourite issue that occurred this week" and wondered aloud if Fargo was a "center of LBGT rights."
Curry said the coffee shop received an outpouring of really like on social media. A single of his customers baked him a cake and yet another made him a patch with the message, "Solidarity forever." The three Democratic state lawmakers who represent the Red Raven's district sent him a present basket.
The handful of critics that came forward have been vocal, Curry stated.
"It was just a handful, but some of them were speaking about militant gay agenda, which I hadn't heard of," he said. "A handful of phone calls telling us that we were hypocrites and making use of some language that was slightly hurtful, but practically nothing that will influence us lengthy term."
The Red Raven caters to a younger crowd that involves higher school and college students and young professors in an region that has three four-year universities. It has an art gallery and a stage for poets, musicians and comedians. It is one of the handful of establishments in town that holds all-ages shows.
Albert Whitcomb, a 69-year-old common who describes himself as a "genuine hippy and activist," joked with Curry through a current pay a visit to that he stopped in to get Curry's autograph for the "amazing adventure" over the anti-discrimination bill.
"It will price you," Curry joked.
____
Linked Press writer James MacPherson in Bismarck contributed to this report.

