Religious Objections Indiana
Indiana Senate President Pro Tem David Long, left, (R-Fort Wayne) and House Speaker Brian C. Bosma (R-Indianapolis) announce changes to the state's new religious objections law during a press conference in the House chamber at the Statehouse in Indianapolis, Thursday, April 2, 2015. The measure has faced criticism it could allow discrimination against lesbians and gays.
........................  ADVERTISEMENT ......................
The backlash against Indiana’s attempt to use religion as a tool to discriminate is reassuring to James Parrish, executive director of Equality Virginia .
“It’s nothing but helpful to see the business community get galvanized this way, and it should make a lot of legislators who want to introduce legislation to deny services to gay and transgender people think twice,” he said Thursday.
But even as Indiana lawmakers scrambled to amend a law that made the state a pariah, amid assertions that businesses were being given the right to refuse service to gay people, Virginia’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender population remains vulnerable to the same biases that Indiana sought to justify and codify in its Religious Freedom Restoration Act.
“Some people might be surprised to learn that Virginia has no law that requires places of public accommodation to serve gay and transgender people,” Parrish said, citing restaurants, hotels, theaters, doctor’s officers and other places where they could be denied service without recourse.
Also, “we have no law to ensure that those who are gay or transgender are not fired just because of who they are, and we have no law that protects gay or transgender people from discrimination in housing. We must change that.”
Earlier this week, it was ironic to see Gov. Terry McAuliffe inviting Indiana businesses to relocate to Virginia while touting our bona fides as an “open and welcoming” state. Although McAuliffe’s support of the LGBT community is unimpeachable, the record at our GOP-dominated statehouse is another matter altogether.
Virginia doesn’t deserve a medal simply for not being Indiana.
“We have the freedom to marry here,” Parrish said. But “we can still be fired and denied public accommodations and housing. ... You can still be denied service in a restaurant.”
In Indiana, the amended law would clarify that it cannot be used to discriminate based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Although some businesses and civic leaders endorsed the fix, at least one — Angie’s List — rejected it as insufficient , according to The Indianapolis Star. Given the stated anti-gay intent of some of the law’s most prominent backers, it should be repealed.
“The timing of this legislation is important to understanding its intent: The bill was introduced as a backlash reaction to achieving marriage equality for same-sex couples in Indiana,” said Jane Henegar, executive director of the ACLU of Indiana , in a March 26 statement by the ACLU in response to the signing of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act into law by Indiana Gov. Mike Pence .
The ACLU, which petitioned Pence to veto the bill, said Indiana’s was one of 24 measures in 15 states this year that could allow someone to use their religious beliefs to discriminate.
Meanwhile, in Virginia, the LGBT community is not recognized as a protected class by the state and has few local protections with teeth.
Such relief is hard to come by on the local level in Virginia, where cities and counties have substantial limits to their autonomy. Virginia operates under a concept known as Dillon’s Rule, in which localities largely derive their powers from the state.
“Because of that, we aren’t able to do what other localities in other states can do,” said Richmond City Council member Charles Samuels .
According to the ACLU of Virginia , a dozen state localities have supported workplace nondiscrimination policies through resolutions of support, executive orders or — in the lone case of Loudoun County — a local ordinance.
And at this point, to the unending annoyance of some of my readers, I must again point out some of the obvious parallels between the 20th-century struggle for African-American civil rights and the 21st-century fight for LGBT rights.
Let’s see: Being discriminated against by the military. Check.
Refusal of the right to marry the person you love, based on race (then) or gender (now). Check.
Refusal of public accommodations, be it the restaurant lunch counter or the wedding cake baker. Check.
And, then as now, the use of religion to justify degradation and the sanctioning of unequal treatment by state governments.
Yes, there are signs of progress. Businesses that at one time saw black and white or gay and straight now seem more inclined to see green as they rally on behalf of equal rights.
And during this year’s legislative session in Virginia, a “rights of conscience” bill by Del. Robert G. Marshall , R-Prince William, was left for dead.
Marshall’s bill stated that a person shall not be required to “perform, assist, consent to, or participate in any action” as a condition of “obtaining or renewing a government-issued license, registration, or certificate” if such actions would “violate the religious or moral convictions” of that person “with respect to same-sex ‘marriage’ or homosexual behavior.”
But for government, in Indiana and Virginia, to merely do no harm is no occasion for a victory lap.
For government not to oppress is not enough. It must protect.
mwilliams@timesdispatch.com
Posted in Michael-paul-williams , Column on Thursday, April 2, 2015 10:30 pm.
Similar Stories
SELECT YOUR LOCATION
- Read important public announcements that may affect your neighborhood.
- Read notices about upcoming trustee sales around the region.
- Read information about local governments seeking bids on projects.
MEET THE NEWS TEAM
Richmond, VA 23219
Life
News
Outdoors
Sports
Travel
Viewpoints/Opinion
Log in to read Richmond.com
Log in to read an unlimited number of articles each month on Richmond.com, and to read The Times-Dispatch e-edition. To log in, enter the e-mail address and password listed on your All Access account. Trying to pay a bill, place a vacation stop or manage your account? Click here .
Haven’t signed up for All Access yet? Get started here…
Screen Name or Email

