 UPDATED 3:54 AM EDT May 27, 2015
Related
Verlander threw 70 pitches over 4 1/3 innings in a simulated game at the O.co Coliseum before the Tigers' 1-0 victory against the Oakland Athletics. He struck out eight and allowed three hits, facing Tigers outfielder Tyler Collins, catcher Bryan Holaday and infielders Dixon Machado and Hernan Perez.
"It went really well," said Verlander, who has spent all season on the disabled list. "The most important thing was I felt really good. Stuff was good. It got better as I went along, which I probably would expect from not being on the mound for a while. All in all, very pleased."
Tigers manager Brad Ausmus said Verlander looked "real good" during the simulated game.
"If he does feel all right (Wednesday), I'd imagine a rehab start would be the next step," Ausmus said.
That minor league appearance could come as early as Sunday.
Verlander said he threw all his pitches and didn't hold back on any of them, including his curveball and slider, which he has tweaked during his recovery.
"I've had time to think about things and really worked on my slider, kind of changed the way I throw it a little bit and have been pretty pleased in the bullpens with it," Verlander said. "Obviously, it's hard to tell until you get guys in the batter's box and see their reactions, but I was really pleased with it today. More of a true slider. A little bit better than what I've been throwing in the past."
Verlander said that, barring a setback, one rehab start of around 85 pitches should be all he would need before being activated. His fastball definitely looked ready Tuesday for a major league game.
"I could tell it was coming out pretty good," Verlander said. "I think the guys' swings will tell you what you need to know, and nobody really put a really good swing on a fastball. And a lot of guys were a little late on it."
The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.
3min
An Air France passenger jet had a near miss with an active volcano in Africa earlier this month, according to French aviation authorities who are investigating the incident.
Air France Flight 953, a Boeing 777 with 37 people aboard, was on a short eve...
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code


Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Detroit Tigers' Justin Verlander sharp in simulated game, on track to begin rehab assignment early next week
Detroit Tigers' Justin Verlander optimistic after simulated game: 'I felt really good' Detroit Tigers starting pitcher Justin Verlander struck out nine batters and threw 4 1/3 shutout innings in a highly anticipated simulated game Tuesday in Oakland.
OAKLAND -- The Detroit Tigers were shut out again Tuesday. And that's a good thing.
Justin Verlander took a big step towards rejoining the Tigers when he struck out nine Tigers -- who served as batters -- and tossed 4 1/3 shutout innings in his first simulated game since mid-April.
He was only scheduled to pitch four innings, but successfully lobbied to face one more batter after the fourth inning and capped his strong outing with a four-pitch strikeout.
"It went really well," said Verlander, who has been sidelined since March 29 with a triceps strain. "But first and foremost, the most important thing, I felt really good."
It marked the first simulated game for Verlander since he had a simulated game cut short in Pittsburgh on April 15 after feeling soreness in his throwing arm.
This time, Verlander reported no discomfort or fatigue.
"It was very encouraging," Verlander said. "I had no problem getting loose. It felt really, and it was also really encouraging."
The Tigers will wait until Wednesday to see how Verlander's arm responds to the simulated game. If the 32-year-old starting pitcher reports no discomfort, there's a strong chance he'll begin a rehab assignment early next week.
"I'm actually not anxious," Tigers manager Brad Ausmus said. "I think he's going to be fine, quite frankly. But me thinking that doesn't mean he will be."
It's unclear where Verlander would be assigned or how many rehab appearances he'd need to make before rejoining the Tigers. However, he may require only one or two starts in order to rebuild the arm strength needed to throw around 100 pitches.
Verlander threw 70 pitches Tuesday -- including a mix of sliders, curveballs and changeups -- and gave up just three hits, all singles. He said he wasn't the least bit hesitant to throw his curveball -- the pitch he threw March 27 when he initially felt his arm tighten up in a Grapefruit League start against the Toronto Blue Jays.
"I thought he looked really good," Ausmus said. "The hitters thought he looked good and (Tigers pitching coach Jeff Jones) thought he looked good."
With bullpen catcher Jeff Kunkel serving as both catcher and plate umpire, Verlander struck out the side in the third inning, getting Bryan Holaday and Tyler Collins to watch called third strikes before Hernan Perez whiffed at a third strike.
The stadium's radar gun at O.co Coliseum wasn't turned on during the simulated game, but Ausmus said he was impressed with the finish on Verlander's fastball.
"And the break on his breaking balls -- they both looked really good," Ausmus said. "Better than I thought they were be for where he's at."
Known for being a creature of habit, Verlander mimicked his routine during regular starts, going as far as simulating the national anthem before he took the mound. Following each inning pitched, he'd sit in the Tigers' dugout for five or six minutes.
In an effort to better replicate the atmosphere of a regular season game, several Tigers players watched his outing from seats and attempted to do the wave. Tigers reliever Joba Chamberlain went as far as playing the role of a concession stand vendor in the stands, selling imaginary hot dogs and beer between innings. 
"We treated it about as real as you can," Verlander said. "The guys in the stands tried to get the wave going, but the fans weren't very receptive to it. It was great."
© 2015 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of MLive Media Group
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

