 UPDATED 3:54 AM EDT May 27, 2015
Related
Verlander threw 70 pitches over 4 1/3 innings in a simulated game at the O.co Coliseum before the Tigers' 1-0 victory against the Oakland Athletics. He struck out eight and allowed three hits, facing Tigers outfielder Tyler Collins, catcher Bryan Holaday and infielders Dixon Machado and Hernan Perez.
"It went really well," said Verlander, who has spent all season on the disabled list. "The most important thing was I felt really good. Stuff was good. It got better as I went along, which I probably would expect from not being on the mound for a while. All in all, very pleased."
Tigers manager Brad Ausmus said Verlander looked "real good" during the simulated game.
"If he does feel all right (Wednesday), I'd imagine a rehab start would be the next step," Ausmus said.
That minor league appearance could come as early as Sunday.
Verlander said he threw all his pitches and didn't hold back on any of them, including his curveball and slider, which he has tweaked during his recovery.
"I've had time to think about things and really worked on my slider, kind of changed the way I throw it a little bit and have been pretty pleased in the bullpens with it," Verlander said. "Obviously, it's hard to tell until you get guys in the batter's box and see their reactions, but I was really pleased with it today. More of a true slider. A little bit better than what I've been throwing in the past."
Verlander said that, barring a setback, one rehab start of around 85 pitches should be all he would need before being activated. His fastball definitely looked ready Tuesday for a major league game.
"I could tell it was coming out pretty good," Verlander said. "I think the guys' swings will tell you what you need to know, and nobody really put a really good swing on a fastball. And a lot of guys were a little late on it."
The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.
3min
An Air France passenger jet had a near miss with an active volcano in Africa earlier this month, according to French aviation authorities who are investigating the incident.
Air France Flight 953, a Boeing 777 with 37 people aboard, was on a short eve...
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code


Email
Print
"The guys' swings will tell you what you want to know," said Justin Verlander. (Orlin Wagner/AP)
By Rick Eymer / MLB.com |
0 COMMENTS
OAKLAND -- Justin Verlander said he felt good after pitching 4 1/3 innings of a simulated game before the Tigers played the Athletics Tuesday night.
"It went really well," said the 2011 American League Cy Young Award winner. "My stuff was good and I got better as I went along, which is to be expected after not throwing for so long."
The game featured a national anthem, 2012 Cy Young Award winner David Price 's "live tweet-cast" and a hit from No. 10 prospect Dixon Machado, who went 0-for-3 in his big league debut Monday.
"We wanted to make it as close to game-like as we could," Tigers manager Brad Ausmus said. "There was no batting cage and he threw how many pitches it took to get three outs."
Vers final line for sim game...4.1 ip 3 hits (all 1bs) 1 BB 9ks 0 runs...I don't use the term domination lightly and he DOMINATED!!!
Several Tigers went into the stands to try to start the "wave," even though the stands were pretty much empty.
"It was comical," Verlander said. "We had Price live tweeting it. It was a lot of fun. I wanted it as real as I could. It was great to have the guys cheering, and it was great to cheer Machado."
Machado, in his second full day in the Majors, got a base hit against Verlander, which led to an impromptu celebration and a presentation of the ball.
"He looked really good," Ausmus said. "The hitters thought he looked good and [pitching coach Jeff Jones] thought he looked good. A rehab start is his next step if he feels good tomorrow, and I think he's going to be fine. The break on his breaking ball was better than I thought given where he's at."
Verlander (right triceps strain) said there was no hesitation in throwing any of his pitches.
"I didn't pitch in as much as I would have, but the pitch sequencing was normal," Verlander said. "The guys' swings will tell you what you want to know."
If Verlander does feel good Wednesday, he'd likely make a rehab start on Monday, though where is yet to be determined.
Rick Eymer is a contributor to MLB.com. This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

