By Matt Moore | NBA writer
May 27, 2015  3:37 AM ET
CLEVELAND --  "A series isn't over until you end it," Lebron James said Sunday. On Tuesday, he ended the Conference Finals.
If there was one lesson to take from these brief, uncompetitive conference finals, it's that while the San Antonio Spurs' model of team ball was victorious last year, unless you have the talent and edge of those Spurs, one guy can still carry his team if he's spectacular and dominant. You know, like LeBron.
Tristan Thompson marveled at James ability to impart his will on the game after Game 3. Against the Hawks, James wasn't even his best self, struggling from the field on open shots. Yet with Kevin Love and Kyrie Irving on the shelf for most of the series, James dominated through his passing, rebound, defense, and mentality. He attacked mismatches, found seams and mismatches, scored over, around, and through players that had no chance of containing him.
You can look at the metrics, break down the video, whatever you'd like. You couldn't watch the Eastern Conference Finals and not feel that James had really willed the team to victory. A young, inexperienced Cavaliers team that resembles the one that began the year in very few ways found its way to the Finals in large part because James molded it though leadership.
"Could I forsee this?" James asked himself on the podium Tuesday night. " At the beginning of the season, I couldn't. I couldn't forsee us being in the Finals at the beginning of the season because I just knew that we just had to get better and I just saw how young we were and how youngminded we were at that point in time. But I knew I had to lead these guys, and if they just followed my leadership, I knew I could get them to a place where they haven't been before."
On the surface, the Cavs seem to pose no threat to whoever comes out of the Western Conference (spoiler alert, it's going to be the Warriors). The Cavs got past the overwhelmingly disappointing East. Even against low expecatations, the Bulls and Hawks managed to play below them. But then, the Cavs weren't supposed to survive the Kevin Love injury, weren't supposed to get past the tougher and more experienced Bulls team, or the more freeflowing, precise Hawks team.
Hey, a year ago, the idea of LeBron James playing for the Cleveland Cavaliers seemed insane on its surface. Yet here we are. James came home, with all the challenges, and expectations, and somehow despite the circus still managed to exceed expecations, still faces the prospect of being an incredible underdog in the Finals, and somehow will still be held responsible if he can't win four more games.
"I'm a guy who believes in unfinished business," James said, "and I understood what these people were going through, the people here not only in Cleveland but in Northeast Ohio and all over the world who love and bleed wine and gold."
The King returned home and somehow dragged his kingdom to the summit. OK, not the summit, but like, really close. You can see it from there. Except there's a giant Western Conference fire-breathing dragon in the way.
That unfinished business has a few items left on the checklist, but after these conference finals, one thing is clear.
We still know who's the boss of the East.
LeBron James kicked back and advanced to the Finals Tuesday. (USATSI)
Biggest Stories
May 27, 2015
3:37 am
12:22 am
12:17 am
11:03 pm
3
4
Get Yours Now
 

