This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Don't Miss Out —
Follow us on:
by Patricia Hurtado
11:36 AM EDT
April 3, 2015
U.S. attorney Preet Bharara may still ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review the appeal in a long-shot bid to salvage the convictions. The high court rejects most such requests. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg
A sweeping ruling making it harder for the government to win insider-trading prosecutions survived a challenge by the U.S. attorney who made his name bringing dozens of such cases.
A federal appeals court on Friday rejected Preet Bharara’s request to reconsider its Dec. 10 decision throwing out guilty verdicts of two fund managers. In doing so, it placed some of the Manhattan prosecutor’s biggest victories, including the conviction of SAC Capital Advisors LP’s Michael Steinberg and at least nine others, in jeopardy.
More broadly, Bharara’s years of pursuing insider traders has now set a precedent making such cases more difficult for his successors.
Bharara may still ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review the appeal in a long-shot bid to salvage the convictions. The high court rejects most such requests.
The ruling came in the case of Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and ex-Diamondback Capital Management LLC portfolio manager Todd Newman, two of more than 80 defendants prosecuted in an eight-year probe by Bharara. The two were convicted in 2012 for trading on shares of Dell Inc. and Nvidia Corp. in what prosecutors said was a $72 million insider scheme.
Keep Secret
On appeal, Chiasson and Newman argued they didn’t know the identity of the original sources of the tips passed to them by their analysts. In December, a three-judge appellate panel required prosecutors to prove that defendants knew their tips came from someone who had a duty to keep them secret and who also got a benefit for leaking them.
Prosecutors assailed the decision, saying it would “dramatically limit the government’s ability to prosecute some of the most common, culpable and market-threatening forms of insider trading.” The argument failed on Friday as the appeals court refused to have the ruling reconsidered by either the same three-judge panel or all of the court’s judges.
Jennifer Queliz, Bharara’s spokeswoman, declined to comment on the decision.
Steinberg was found guilty in 2013 of trading on the same tips as Chiasson and Newman. The case was among the most significant of Bharara’s crackdown.
Unlike its 27-page ruling in December, the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York didn’t explain its reason for not re-hearing the case. “The petition is denied,” it said in a three-sentence order.
“Today’s decision reaffirms that Michael Steinberg did not commit a crime and never should have been prosecuted,” his lawyer, Barry Berke, said in a phone interview. “The decision requires his conviction to be thrown out as well.”
‘System Worked’
Greg Morvillo, Chiasson’s lawyer, said the ruling “powerfully reaffirms” his client’s innocence.
“This victory is proof that the justice system worked how it is supposed to, with thoughtful judicial oversight when there are glaring errors at the trial court level,” he said in a statement.
The decision “emphatically reaffirms that Todd Newman committed no crime,” defense lawyers Steven Fishbein and John Nathanson, said in a statement. “It is now time for the government to move on and allow an innocent man to continue with his life.”
Separately, former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director Rajat Gupta, who is serving a two-year prison term for passing tips to billionaire fund manager Raj Rajaratnam, has also asked that his conviction be reversed, citing the appeals court’s December ruling. That request is pending.
The case is U.S. v. Newman, 13-1917, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:

