Posted:
Political calendar of the new city of Saratoga Springs
Became law — April 7, 1915.
Petitions for nominations must be filed with the committee in charge of the first primary and election April 25, 1915.
Acceptances of nominations must be filed April 30, 1915.
Advertisement
The Primary Election will be held in the 13 election districts May 25, 1915.
The Election will be held in the 13 election districts June 8, 1915.
The new officers will take office at 9 a.m., Tuesday, June 22, 1915.
The Ballots will bear no party designation, and the candidates will be elected by the city at large.
The Committee which will have charge of the first primary and election consists of: E. D. Starbuck, W. D. Eddy, Thomas Leonard, G. F. Comstock, J. N. Crocker, E. H. King, J. P. McGirr, N. R. Thompson, H. L. Waterbury, Bernard Brunner, W. H. Bennett, A. S. Downs, T. R. Kneil, Harry W. Leonard, H. E. Pettee, James S. Eddy, C. A. Young, F. W. Lawrence, Deyoe Lohnas, G. N. Ostrander and August Erickson.
Five Commissioners will be elected to serve until January 1, 1918; salary, $500.
One City Judge will be elected to serve until January 1, 1920; salary, $1,800.
The Commissioners are: Commissioner of Public Affairs, or Mayor; Commissioner of Accounts, Commissioner of Finance, Commissioner of Public Safety, Commissioner of Public Works.
Their Successors will be chosen and elected at fall primaries and November election in 1917.
Ad as it appeared in The Saratogian
John G. Myers Co. 37, 39 and 41 No. Pearl St., Albany.
50th Anniversary Sale
This great affair is in full swing in every section of the store; the Main Building and New Shop adjoining. The offerings and attractions establish a new standard in value giving. The arrays of goods, the assortments, and the number and excellence of the offerings all combine to make the affair a source of unusual charm and profit to everybody.
We would like you to come to the affair that has won the attention and pleasure of thousands, for there are inducements and specials that will not be repeated in a life time. Come.
Personal mention
• Mr. and Mrs. Gustav Hannock, of Albany, have been visiting friends in this village.
• George J. King returned this morning to his studies at Cornell University, after having spend the Easter holidays with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. James H. King, in this village.
• Mrs. Raymond S. Bumstead and daughter, Alice, left today for New Haven, Ct., to join Mr. Bumstead, who is employed as a draughtsman in a gun manufacturing company in that city.
• Harry W. Leonard sustained a slight operation on his face this morning in St. Peter’s Hospital, Albany. He will remain at the hospital over night, but will return to Saratoga tomorrow.
Local gossip
An adjourned meeting of the fourth quarterly conference of the First M. E. church will be held in the church parlors this evening at 7:30 o’clock.
— Compiled by Ileana Paules-Bronet

