30  shares
SHARE
TWEET
SMS
SEND
EMAIL
Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., spoke to reporters on Capitol Hill in March. (Molly Riley, AP)
Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid is refusing to apologize for incendiary claims he made that Mitt Romney hadn’t paid taxes in 10 years.
“I have no repentance, because the issue was important,” Reid said in an interview Tuesday with Fusion’s Jorge Ramos.
Pressed by Ramos about evidence and Romney’s disclosures of taxes that he has paid, Reid was unapologetic and suggested the real issue was that the 2012 GOP presidential nominee did not release his actual tax  returns.
“Of course he paid taxes,” Reid said. “What he didn’t do is let us see his tax returns.”
The comments by Reid, who is retiring from the Senate after the 2016 elections, are the latest in his refusal to back down from claims that have been debunked by fact-checkers . His defense during a recent CNN interview : “Romney didn’t win, did he?”
Romney released his 2011 tax return , showing he paid about $1.9 million in federal taxes on income of about $13.7 million. His accountants had also provided a statement about the federal and state taxes paid between 1990 and 2009, and that Mitt and Ann Romney paid an average effective federal rate during those years of about 20%.
Reid’s refusal to back down from his Romney claim, made on the Senate floor amid an intense period in the 2012 presidential campaign, are yet another example of the pugnacious quality that has defined his tenure as the Senate’s top Democrat.
When Ramos notes that Romney did pay taxes, Reid said “that’s a phony answer.” He also said the issue has been “blown way out of proportion, but blown my way.”
Here’s a tweet from Matt Romney, regarding the comments Reid made about his father in the CNN interview.
Stay classy! “ @politicalwire : Harry Reid says he has no regrets accusing Mitt Romney of not paying his taxes: “Romney didn’t win did he?”
President Obama gives some advice to a potential White House aspirant.
President Obama’s spokesman says disputes with Scott Walker are philosophical, not political.
Yes, the Twitterverse noticed Washington was hit by a power outage as Rand Paul declared his presidential bid.
21hr
Ted Cruz says Rand Paul will make GOP presidential candidates stronger against Hillary Clinton.
Top 10 OnPolitics
Join 206 other followers
Post to

