See Past Musical Guests
On-Air Schedule
Anchorage Centennial
National
Web Exclusives
Photo Galleries
Station Profile
Employment
Travel Tuesday
News | Apr 06, 19:47
Crime | Apr 06, 8:45
Lifestyle | Apr 06, 19:21
News | Apr 06, 15:05
Estimated read time
58s
​Finalists named in campaign to put a woman on the $20 bill
By CBSNews.com Staff 8:46 PM April 7, 2015
A group working to put a woman on the $20 bill has revealed its finalists: Eleanor Roosevelt, Harriet Tubman, Rosa Parks and Cherokee Chief Wilma Mankiller.
The finalists were named after a five-week voting period that saw more than 256,000 voters cast ballots on the website  WomenOn20s.com . The four finalists were narrowed down from a group of 15 women that included the likes of Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Shirley Chisholm, just to name a few.
Chief Wilma Mankiller, the first female chief of the Cherokee nation, was added to the final ballot by “popular demand in order to include a choice of a Native American,” according to the website.
Barbara Ortiz Howard is the woman behind the initiative to remove President Andrew Jackson from the $20 bill in favor of a prominent woman.
“There are no women on the money and I thought ‘Gee, this is a crazy omission,’”  Howard told CBS News last month.
Japanese reactor radiation detected off B.C. coast
by Associated Press                                    on Apr 07, 20:50
Radiation from the leaking Fukushima Daiichi nuclear reactor has been detected on the shores of British Columbia’s Vancouver Island, four years after a deadly earthquake and tsunami in Japan killed 16,000 people. University of Victoria chemical oceanographer Jay Cullen said Monday that it’s the first time radiation has been found on the shorelines of North […]
News
​Finalists named in campaign to put a woman on the $20 bill
by CBSNews.com Staff                                    on Apr 07, 20:46
A group working to put a woman on the $20 bill has revealed its finalists: Eleanor Roosevelt, Harriet Tubman, Rosa Parks and Cherokee Chief Wilma Mankiller. The finalists were named after a five-week voting period that saw more than 256,000 voters cast ballots on the website WomenOn20s.com. The four finalists were narrowed down from a group […]
Lifestyle
Alaska artist Rie Muñoz dies at 93
by Elizabeth Raines                                    on Apr 07, 17:07
Rie Muñoz left her mark on the state of Alaska, one brushstroke at a time. Muñoz, who passed away Monday night in Juneau, captured Alaskans at work and play, pulling inspiration from the people themselves. Her paintings have been displayed in museums and art galleries statewide, offering a colorful perspective on the daily lives of the state’s […]
Crime
Man sentenced in connection with 2014 explosion inside Ketchikan tunnel
by KTVA CBS 11 News                                    on Apr 07, 16:44
A 40-year-old Ketchikan man was sentenced Tuesday in connection with a 2014 explosion inside the Ketchikan Tunnel. Joseph Duane Brown admitted that he assembled and linked together “at least 20″ one-pound explosive devices that went off inside the Ketchikan Tunnel, according to a release from the U.S. Attorney’s office. The “seal bombing” incident happened July 4, […]
News
Man found passed out at Anchorage airport arrested for stealing artifact badge
by KTVA CBS 11 News                                    on Apr 07, 15:28
A 19-year-old man was arrested Tuesday after he stole an artifact badge from a downtown museum and was later found passed out in the middle of a terminal at Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport with the emblem, authorities say. Clayton Ticknor of Anvik was arrested for second-degree theft after he allegedly stole the Alaska fire marshal […]
News
by Associated Press                                    on Apr 07, 12:50
The state Department of Fish and Game says that concerns about the strength of the Chilkat River king salmon run will mean conservative management this summer. The department announced Monday that commercial, sport and subsistence salmon fisheries near Haines, north of Juneau, will be managed conservatively this summer. The department is forecasting that it won’t […]
Crime
Bethel woman indicted in connection with her father’s death
by Hope Miller                                    on Apr 07, 12:04
A 35-year-old Bethel woman was indicted on manslaughter and drug charges after she allegedly injected her father with heroin at an Anchorage apartment in September 2014. Bethel police took Shannon Cooke into custody April 3 after she was indicted March 26, according to a statement from the state Department of Law. If convicted of manslaughter, […]
Politics
by Associated Press                                    on Apr 07, 11:57
The Senate Finance Committee plans confirmation hearings for Gov. Bill Walker’s appointees to the Alaska Gasline Development Corp. board. The hearings for Rick Halford, Joe Paskvan and Hugh Short are scheduled for Tuesday. They would replace three members removed by Walker earlier this year, including former pipeline and oil company executives. Some lawmakers have raised […]
Contact
Legal
Social

