Byron Nelson notebook: Jordan Spieth at the youth clinic, pairings, field changes and more
1/25
Andy Jacobsohn/Staff Photographer
Professional golfer Jordan Spieth reacts before attempting to drive a ball with a sized-down driver during a presentation by golf entertainer Dan Boever during the Byron Nelson Youth Golf Clinic at the TPC Four Seasons Resort Dallas at Las Colinas in Irving, Texas Tuesday May 26, 2015. (Andy Jacobsohn/The Dallas Morning News)
Updated:
Related
IRVING — Microphone in hand, Dallas native and 18-year PGA Tour veteran Harrison Frazar addressed about 400 onlookers at the annual AT&T Byron Nelson youth clinic by introducing his somewhat famous co-host.
“You guys know who that is, right?” Frazar said, motioning to Jordan Spieth. “So, a few weeks ago he won a tournament in Tampa, and was really good.”
Frazar, of course, jokingly buried the lead. Spieth did in fact win the Valspar Championship in Tampa, but a month later won a somewhat more famous tournament called the Masters.
Frazar did much of the talking while the crowd, which including almost as many enthralled adults as kids, got what they came to see: Spieth, up close and personal, shaping shots in both directions, bombing drives and collaborating with Frazar to give basic golf tips.
Spieth and Frazar later joined 2008 RE/MAX World Long Drive senior champion Dan Boever in hitting trick shots.
Spieth, noting his instructor Cameron McCormick in the crowd, passed on to the kids and adults the best advice he ever got from McCormick.
Spieth recalled that when he was younger, he wanted his swing to emulate those of Tiger Woods and Adam Scott’s.
Spieth said McCormick’s response was “Why? Your body is so different. You’re a different age. You’re a different height, different weight, it’s just not going to work that way.
“You’ve got to swing the way you swing. Swing the way your body allows you to swing, and then work every shot off of that. That’s probably the most important thing [to know] growing up.
“You’ve got to find something that works for you.”
When it rains
 
With the TPC Four Seasons at Las Colinas receiving about 12 inches of rain the past three weeks, the course can’t take much more.
“I played nine [holes] this morning, and the golf course is totally under water, not a dry spot in any fairway,” defending champion Brendon Todd said Tuesday. “The greens are holding up pretty well.”
It has rained 19 of the last 25 days in Dallas-Fort Worth. Forecasts call for up to 40 percent chance of rain with scattered thunderstorms in the afternoon and evening on Wednesday and Thursday. Rain chances with thunderstorms increase to 60 percent for Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
Preferred lies (lift, clean and place) will probably be in effect, although that decision has not been made. At last week’s Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial in Fort Worth, the preferred lies rule was in effect, including through the green on Sunday for the first time on tour since the 2009 Turning Stone Resort Championship.
“I’ve probably never seen a course that drenched,” Justin Thomas said of the TPC. “There’s nothing they can do about that at all.”
Featured pairings
Jordan Spieth, Justin Thomas and Brooks Koepka, 1 p.m. Thursday, No. 1 tee; 8 a.m. Friday, No. 10.
Jason Day, Brendon Todd and Keegan Bradley, 12:50 p.m. Thursday, No. 1; 7:50 a.m. Friday, No. 10.
Jimmy Walker, Dustin Johnson and Sangmoon Bae, 7:50 a.m. Thursday, No. 10; 12:50 p.m. Friday, No. 1.
Brandt Snedeker, Matt Kuchar and Zach Johnson, 8 a.m. Thursday, No. 10; 1 p.m. Friday, No.1.
Field changes
Alex Cejka, Scott Gardiner, Freddie Jacobson, Kevin Kisner, Jason Kokrak, Neal Lancaster and Chris Stroud have withdrawn.
--
Where: TPC Four Seasons Las Colinas, Irving
TV: Golf Channel (Thursday-Friday, 2-5 p.m.) Ch. 11 (Saturday-Sunday, 2-5 p.m.)
Purse: $7.1 million
Winner’s share: $1,278,000
Tickets: Daily Grounds tickets ($45) are available at ticketmaster.com or 214-373-8000, or Ticketmaster outlets at Foley's, Fiesta supermarkets, Majestic Theater and select Tower Records and FYE stores. Tickets are not sold at the gate.
Weather forecast
Today: 30 percent chance of thunderstorms mainly after 1 p.m. High of 87.
Thursday: 40 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Partly sunny with high near 85
Friday: 50 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Mostly cloudy with a high near 82.
Saturday: 50 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Mostly cloudy with a high near 83.
Sunday: 30 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Mostly cloudy with a high near 80.
Calendar
THURSDAY-SATURDAY — The Pavilion on Champions Way. Live concerts: Mockingbird Sun (Friday) and Le Freak (Saturday).
Parking
Free VIP Parking for Cadillac drivers at Lot 6 (North Lake College, 5001 N MacArthur Blvd) and a shuttle to and from the course.
Free parking at 3400 N. Walton Walker Blvd., Irving (the former Texas Stadium Red Lot).
Free shuttle service runs Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday from 6 a.m. to 90 minutes following conclusion of play and Friday-Saturday from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

