Latest Headlines
Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 916-321-1323 or email funeral@sacbee.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By DARLENE SUPERVILLE Associated Press
04/08/2015 9:44 AM
04/08/2015 9:44 AM
But Malia Obama isn't your average 16-year-old: Her driving lessons were provided by the U.S. Secret Service.
Asked who taught Malia how to drive, first lady Michelle Obama told celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview that it was the armed agents who provide around-the-clock security for the family.
"The Secret Service, actually, because they wouldn't let me in the car with her," Mrs. Obama said in an excerpt of the interview that was released by Ray's program. The full interview is set to air Thursday.
Mrs. Obama hasn't driven herself in seven or eight years, she said.
She added that driving gives Malia "a sense of normalcy," helping her feel like the rest of her friends who are also driving. "And my kids have got to learn how to live in the world like normal kids."
When Ray says that the Obamas seem "so grounded," the first lady replies that her "hope is just to make sure that they (her daughters) come out of this thing as functioning adults, you know?"
Malia also drives herself around Washington, Mrs. Obama said.
"She always has security around but in order for her to learn how to drive she had to drive on her own," the first lady said during a separate interview on "Live! With Kelly and Michael" earlier this week. "So once she was legally permitted to drive on her own, she gets in her car."
Related
FILE - In this Feb. 27, 2013 file photo, first lady Michelle Obama and Food Network chef Rachel Ray greet students at a "Let's Move!" program at the Eastside and Northside Elementary Schools in Clinton, Miss. Some teenagers get driving lessons from their parents. Other teens are taught by licensed instructors. But Malia Obama isn’t your average 16-year-old: Her driving lessons were provided by the U.S. Secret Service. That’s what Malia’s mother, Michelle Obama, tells celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview scheduled to air Thursday. | Rogelio V. Solis, File AP Photo
Related
FILE - In this Feb. 27, 2013 file photo, first lady Michelle Obama and Food Network chef Rachel Ray greet students at a "Let's Move!" program at the Eastside and Northside Elementary Schools in Clinton, Miss. Some teenagers get driving lessons from their parents. Other teens are taught by licensed instructors. But Malia Obama isn’t your average 16-year-old: Her driving lessons were provided by the U.S. Secret Service. That’s what Malia’s mother, Michelle Obama, tells celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview scheduled to air Thursday. | Rogelio V. Solis, File AP Photo
Join the Discussion
The Sacramento Bee is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

