Support trade pact ‘Fast Track’
Apr 10 2015 12:01 am
×
One area where most Republicans and President Obama agree is the promotion of expanded free trade. The administration is negotiating a “Trans Pacific Partnership” with a number of Asian nations (not including China), and has asked Congress to restore a rule that a final agreement cannot be amended afterward by Congress. The House and Senate should give him that authority.
The rule, known as Trade Promotion Authority or “Fast Track,” says Congress can vote to approve or reject trade agreements, but cannot amend them.
The rule, and the negotiation of new agreements lowering barriers to trade, are vehemently opposed by organized labor, with the result that the great majority of Democrats oppose both.
That means the administration needs GOP votes to get the authority it requires to make trade deals.
Unfortunately, there has always been a small but vocal minority in the Republican Party who oppose free trade.  Recently, with the support of many tea party activists, it has been growing stronger and making alliance with pro-labor Democrats to oppose Fast Track. Such conservative stalwarts as Reps. Duncan Hunter, R-Cal., Dana Rohrabacher, R-Cal. and Walter Jones, R-N.C. are outspoken against the legislation.
The Wall Street Journal reports that 17 of the 43 Republican freshmen in the House of Representatives did not sign a letter of support for trade promotion authority. An estimated 50 to 60 GOP House members may vote no when the rule comes up for a vote.
It certainly puts pressure on Democrats to support their president. House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, has said Mr. Obama will need 50 Democratic votes to gain his objective in the House.
Fast Track is expected to go before the Senate next week.
The president needs to keep the pressure on his party for trade promotion authority, recognizing the benefits of the Trans Pacific Partnership. Fast Track needs to pass.
Comments
Notice about comments:
The Post and Courier is pleased to offer readers the enhanced ability to comment on stories. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.
We do not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the X that appears in the upper right corner when you hover over a comment. This will send the comment to Facebook for review. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Read our full terms and conditions .
Most Popular
loading...
© 2015, The Post and Courier, an Evening Post Industries company.
All Rights Reserved.

