Protestors Hits the Streets Demanding Justice, Four Arrested - NBC Right Now/KNDO/KNDU Tri-Cities, Yakima, WA |
Posted:
Updated:
Demonstrators marched from Volunteer Park to 10th and Lewis Street where Zambrano was shot.
PASCO, WA- Two months after the police shooting of Antonio Zambrano, protesters were back at Volunteer Park to demand justice. 
For the first time since protests started, police made some arrests.
People from all over the state of Washington, most of them from student-lead organizations, the Zambrano family, and other groups, voiced their concerns and the changes they wished to see as a result of that officer involved shooting.
Locals and some student groups like the Washington Dream Act Coalition and M.E.Ch .A from Eastern Washington University made sure no one forgot that.
"We want to show the city of Pasco that they are not alone.  That is the reason why we have created a coalition with the statewide organization," said Martin Negrete, M.E.Ch .A representative.
Demonstrators said they have four demands: to bring a special prosecutor for this case, to have the three officers fired, retrain police, and for there to be better representation of officers in the city.     
They gathered at Volunteer Park to hear speakers like Attorney George Trejo, the lawyer for Zambrano's wife and daughter. Once that was over, marchers took to the streets.
"I'm here because I believe in justice for everyone," said Russell Webster, Eastern Washington University student. 
Supporters of Zambrano were not the only ones out there.  Right across the street were Pasco Police supporters. 
"We're not here wishing death on anybody, our condolences and prayers to the friends and family, but it's more of education on what that rock could do," said Tracy Goetz, Pasco Police supporter. 
The president of the Spokane NAACP said she was there to show support for change. 
"We're here to say, not one more," said Rachel, Dolezal, Spokane NAACP president. 
A Pasco native who is a Gonzaga University student said he is confident this protest will make a difference.
"I think that something will change.  I think they're going to see that we're not going to give up on this and that we're going to see that we're going to continue fighting for justice.  They'll have to create change in the community."
During the march, police arrested four people for disorderly conduct after they said their two cars blocked traffic on Court Street.  One of those people arrested had felony warrant our for arrest from the department of corrections and was also in possession of a controlled substance. 
"We've got people trying to get to work, getting home from work.  Other citizens are out there that we need to also take care of as well as the protestors,"
The march ended at 10th and Lewis Street, the spot where Antonio Zambrano was shot.  Saturday is not the last time Pasco will see marchers.  There is a "Unity Walk" planned for Tuesday.  They will have a day long of events, speakers, and a march to end it.
Saturday, April 11 2015 11:29 PM EDT2015-04-12 03:29:57 GMT
Demonstrators marched from Volunteer Park to 10th and Lewis Street where Zambrano was shot.
Two months after the police shooting of Antonio Zambrano, protesters were back at Volunteer Park to demand justice.For the first time since protests started, police made some arrests. More >>
Two months after the police shooting of Antonio Zambrano, protesters were back at Volunteer Park to demand justice.For the first time since protests started, police made some arrests. More >>
Friday, April 10 2015 9:04 PM EDT2015-04-11 01:04:46 GMT
SPOKANE, Wash. - It's an age old question that thousands of people debate each day, literally... Or maybe it is just me that debates it amongst myself. Either way, someone else has at one point thought, “What is the difference between ‘partly cloudy' and ‘partly sunny'?”Weathercaster's and meteorologists throw around these terms constantly and at times, tough to make sense of.  More >>
SPOKANE, Wash. - It's an age old question that thousands of people debate each day, literally... Or maybe it is just me that debates it amongst myself. Either way, someone else has at one point thought, “What is the difference between ‘partly cloudy' and ‘partly sunny'?”Weathercaster's and meteorologists throw around these terms constantly and at times, tough to make sense of.  More >>
The IRS does not ask for money over the phone.
A Kennewick family lost $2,000 to phone scamers who claimed to be with the IRS. More >>
A Kennewick family lost $2,000 to phone scamers who claimed to be with the IRS. More >>
Friday, April 10 2015 6:47 PM EDT2015-04-10 22:47:07 GMT
SPOKANE, Wash. - The statewide winter snowpack is only at 22 percent of normal according to the April 1 report from the Natural Resources Conservation Service. The last time the state was anywhere close to those levels was in 2005, at 33 perecent of normal."The snowpack is not very good for this time of year.  More >>
SPOKANE, Wash. - The statewide winter snowpack is only at 22 percent of normal according to the April 1 report from the Natural Resources Conservation Service. The last time the state was anywhere close to those levels was in 2005, at 33 perecent of normal."The snowpack is not very good for this time of year.  More >>
Accident on SR 12
A man in a Hyundai is rear-ended by a semi truck in Franklin County.  More >>
A man in a Hyundai is rear-ended by a semi truck in Franklin County.  More >>
Thursday, April 9 2015 8:27 PM EDT2015-04-10 00:27:26 GMT
KENNEWICK, Wash. - A Kennewick Police officer is under investigation after video of him yelling at three teenagers during a traffic stop spread through social media this week. Officer Glenn Ball, a 21 year veteran of the police force, pulled over the three young men for possibly drag racing and one of the teens began recording the interaction on his cell phone.  More >>
KENNEWICK, Wash. - A Kennewick Police officer is under investigation after video of him yelling at three teenagers during a traffic stop spread through social media this week. Officer Glenn Ball, a 21 year veteran of the police force, pulled over the three young men for possibly drag racing and one of the teens began recording the interaction on his cell phone.  More >>
Thursday, April 9 2015 4:58 PM EDT2015-04-09 20:58:15 GMT
Senators have turned away a proposal to repeal federal Common Core standards from Montana's public education system. More >>
Senators have turned away a proposal to repeal federal Common Core standards from Montana's public education system. More >>
Photo: AP / Riverhead Books, Carol Doig
Ivan Doig, an award-winning author whose books set in his native Montana made him one of the most respected writers of the American West, has died. More >>
Ivan Doig, an award-winning author whose books set in his native Montana made him one of the most respected writers of the American West, has died.
Photo Courtesy: Women on 20s
Women on 20s pushes for a woman's face to be featured on the $20 bill by 2020.
Wednesday, April 8 2015 6:42 PM EDT2015-04-08 22:42:47 GMT
NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. - The North Charleston officer being charged with murder after shooting a man running away from him has been fired.  More >>
   

