US Elections 2016: Hillary Clinton Nabs Google Executive For Presidential Campaign
Presidential contender Hillary Clinton, who has yet to officially announce her candidacy, is said to have hired a Google executive to be her chief technology officer. Google’s director of product management for civic innovation and social impact, Stephanie Hannon, will lead the team in coming up with technological strategies to help Clinton reach out to voters.
First woman to be chief technology officer
Stephanie Hannon will be the first woman to become chief technology officer in a national campaign capacity, according to The Washington Post , citing unnamed Democrats as sources. Hannon is said to be overseeing a team of engineers and developers in Clinton’s New York campaign headquarters.
The team is tasked to design websites, apps and tools so that voters can easily reach out to Clinton and vice versa. Hannon is said to be working with Katie Dowd, a longtime Clinton aide who will serve as the 2016 campaign’s digital director, and Teddy Goff, a consultant for the campaign’s digital strategy.
Want to get updated with US ELECTION stories? Subscribe now.
Email Address *
Mailing List *
Stephanie Hannon Profile
According to her LinkedIn profile , Hannon has spent seven years as a product manager for Google. Most recently, she worked as the lead for Google Wave, which was based in the company’s Sydney office. Before being stationed in Sydney, she worked in Google’s Zurich site as a team lead for Google Maps for Europe, Middle East and Africa. She also previously worked as product manager for Gmail in Mountain View.
She recently transitioned from Facebook where she led product management for Site Integrity and Trust Engineering, working to ensure Facebook is a safe space for communication where people use their authentic identities. Prior to Facebook, Stephanie co-founded an ambitious but now-defunct startup that aimed to bring web innovations.
Stephanie also spent six years as a software engineer building operating systems for the Catalyst line of switches at Cisco Systems after the acquisition of a startup called Granite Systems.
She holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Systems Engineering, an M.S.E.E. from Stanford University and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
Also read: US Elections 2016: Rand Paul Jabs At Shocking Secret of Hillary Clinton
About Athena Yenko
Took up Communication Arts, Major in Writing   Covers World, Politics and Business news
Related Articles
March 18, 2015
April 8, 2015
April 9, 2015
April 9, 2015
April 9, 2015
The Morning News USA is rewriting the way news are delivered.
Twitter Feeds
DON'T GET LEFT BEHIND!
Don't skip the most important news. Subscribe to Morning News USA daily emails to get the news you need to know, every morning.
Sign up in seconds
Email Address *
No thanks, I’m not looking for daily news.

