Cubs rookie Kris Bryant hit a game-tying home run in the bottom of the eighth inning of his team's eventual 3-2 win over the Washington Nationals on Tuesday. The HR would have gone 463 feet.
Play2:35
2h
Kris Bryant and Bryce Harper traded solo blasts, but Addison Russell was the young star coming of age with his game-winning double in the bottom of the ninth.
3 Related
Philadelphia Phillies general manager Ruben Amaro says that fans who don't understand the team's methodical approach to turning the franchise around "don't understand the game."
Play2:35
Cubs rookie Kris Bryant hit a game-tying home run in the bottom of the eighth inning of his team's eventual 3-2 win over the Washington Nationals on Tuesday. The HR would have gone 463 feet.
Dilip Vishwanat/Getty Images
37mMark Saxon
Dodgers infielder Juan Uribe said Tuesday night he was told a trade with the Atlanta Braves would be made official either later tonight or Wednesday morning.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images
10h
Cincinnati Reds starter Johnny Cueto will miss at least one more start after an MRI found inflammation in his pitching elbow.
Play0:59
4h
ST. LOUIS --  The Cardinals anticipate first baseman Matt Adams will be placed on the 15-day disabled list after straining his right quadriceps while running out a double in the fifth inning.
Tom Szczerbowski/Getty Images
9h
Blue Jays slugger Jose Bautista is back in the starting lineup for Tuesday's game against the White Sox and says his sore right shoulder is pain free after a cortisone shot.
AP Photo/John Bazemore
9h
A week after firing Mike Redmond and replacing him with Dan Jennings, the Marlins reassigned third base coach Brett Butler on Tuesday and replaced him with assistant hitting coach Lenny Harris.
Play0:43
2hDavid Schoenfield
Josh Donaldson became the first player to score five runs in a game in 2015 -- while hitting his sixth career walk-off.
Play1:41
1h
Prince Fielder is raking as the regular DH for the Texas Rangers, and that's a beautiful thing.
2 Related
26m
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans the way Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
1 Related
Bryce Harper's fast start to the season has shown what he truly could be capable of doing over the long haul.
Play0:37
1h
Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw was his dominant self in an 8-0 victory over the Braves, allowing four hits and striking out 10 in seven shutout innings.
3 Related
AP Photo/Kathy Willens
5hAndrew Marchand
Five signs of hope for the New York Yankees as they pass the Memorial Day mark in contention in the American League East.
Play0:21
4hDavid Schoenfield
The first returns are in on the All-Star voting and the Kansas City Royals have leaders at five positions.
Play3:15
12hStephania Bell
Stephania Bell checks in with her insight on the injuries to David Wright and Victor Martinez -- including when each of them may return to action.
Play3:40
13h
A little pine tar here. Some rosin and sunscreen there. Baseball Tonight's Dallas Braden and Alex Cora explain how to cheat in baseball.
2 Related
18hDavid Schoenfield
Jeremy Guthrie of the Kansas City Royals put up this pitching line on Monday against the Yankees: 1 IP, 9 H, 11 R, 11 ER, 3 BB, 1 SO, 4 HR.
Play1:06
5d
Jim Bowden lays out the 20 players most likely to be traded by July 31, rating each one on their chances of being dealt and looking at where they might end up.
1 Related
Kris Bryant hits Wrigley scoreboard with game-tying 463-foot blast
Cubs walk off against Nationals
Baseball Tonight Spotlight: Addison Russell knocks in the winning run in the bottom of the ninth in the Cubs' 3-2 win over the Nationals.
Jesse Rogers, Chicago Cubs beat reporter
CHICAGO -- No one was quite sure where the ball landed after seeing Chicago Cubs rookie Kris Bryant hit a game-tying mammoth home run in the bottom of the eighth inning of his team's eventual 3-2 win over the Washington Nationals on Tuesday.
Cubs rookie Kris Bryant watches the trajectory of his mammoth, game-tying home run in the eighth inning. 
AP Photo/Charles Rex Arbogast
It actually hit the new video scoreboard in left-center at Wrigley Field and then dropped into the recently opened bleachers. According to ESPN Stats & Information, the home run ball would have landed 463 feet from home plate.
"Everyone just stood up to see how far it would go," teammate Addison Russell said after the game. "When he hits balls he hits them far. We're used to seeing it. It's cool the world gets to see what he has to offer."
Russell won the game with a ninth-inning double that drove in a run, but it'll be Bryant's blast that will generate the most buzz from the evening. The at-bat started out 0-2 before Bryant worked it full and then blasted a slider for his seventh home run of the season.
"That was a good one for me," Bryant said nonchalantly. "And there was a little wind blowing out here, too."
This ball didn't need any wind. It was the eighth-longest home run in baseball this season and the longest of Bryant's short career. He was asked if it was the farthest one he's ever hit.
Editor's Picks
Josh Donaldson became the first player to score five runs in a game in 2015 -- while hitting his sixth career walk-off.
"Uhh, I don't know," he responded. "I've hit some good home runs in my short time on this earth."
Bryant might not have a lot of perspective on the matter, but his teammates and manager do. The dugout jumped up to watch how far it would go.
"I just wonder, what does it feel like to hit a ball that hard, that far?" catcher Miguel Montero asked, only half-kidding. "That would be an awesome feeling."
Cubs manager Joe Maddon added: "We thought it was over the board. Kind of got everyone stirring."
Russell and starting pitcher Kyle Hendricks also thought it went over the scoreboard. It was so high no one knew until it ricocheted into the bleachers. Was it at least his best since being called up in early April?
"Yeah, I guess so," Bryant said. "Most meaningful one."
0 Shares

