Top Stories in Sports
Top Stories in Business
Top Stories in Entertainment
Day in the life: Working in a NICU requires dedicated nurses
Top Stories in Jobs
Top Stories in Cars
Top Stories in Real Estate
By Maggie Galehouse | April 4, 2015 | Updated: April 4, 2015 9:51pm
Page 1 of 1
Photo By Maggie Galehouse 
Citizens, politicians and clergy hold hands in prayer around the statue of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. In MacGregor Park, Houston, April 4, 2015. King was assassinated April 4,1968 in Memphis.
Near midnight on March 18, 1968, Tom Jones assembled with the rest of the Prairie View A&M a cappella concert choir in the Blue Room of the Lorraine Hotel in Memphis.
Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr . was also staying at the hotel, and Jones' choir director had asked the civil rights leader if the choir could perform for him. King said yes, and the choir sang Randall Thompson 's "Alleluia."
"It meant so much to me," Jones said Saturday evening, as he stood with a crowd around the statue of King in MacGregor Park for a candlelight vigil.
Saturday marked the 47th anniversary of King's assassination on the balcony of his room at the Lorraine Hotel - less than three weeks after Jones and his choir sang for him.
Jones, 67, is a board member of the Black Heritage Society , the organization that hosted the vigil, which drew close to 150 residents, politicians and clergy to King's statue at the park. The statue of was the culmination of a decade-long project by the Black Heritage Society.
People formed a circle around the statue and held hands while they prayed.
"We want to bring the Rev. King's mission into a new era," said Sandra Massie Hines , vice chair of the Black Heritage Society. "We believe in the peace and calm to get things done."
Local religious leaders, including Rev. James Nash , offered prayers. Black Heritage Society founder Ovide Duncantell, a driving force behind an annual Martin Luther King Jr. parade and the renaming of the thoroughfare now known as Martin Luther King Boulevard, spoke of King's spirit and commitment. U.S. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee , D-Houston, reminded visitors that this was also a weekend of resurrection and rejoicing.
This was one vigil among many across the country - from Memphis to Maui - to honor the slain civil rights leader, who had gone to Memphis to support striking garbage workers.
For Jones, the memory of King listening to the Prairie View A&M choir is utterly precious.
"He sat and listened," Jones recalled. "And then he tipped his head up toward heaven. I watched that, and I will never forget it.
Top Stories and In-Depth Investigative Journalism
exclusively on
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
© Copyright

