Abraham Lincoln as Chicago knew him: A leader with 'patriotic purpose'
On April 14, 1865, Washington, D.C., was in victory mode. For 5 days, considering that Gen. Robert E. Lee's surrender at Appomattox, the capital celebrated the finish of a bloody Civil War. Sporadic fighting continued, but you would not know it in jubilant...
On April 14, 1865, Washington, D.C., was in victory mode. For 5 days, considering that Gen. Robert E. Lee's surrender at Appomattox, the capital celebrated the finish of a bloody Civil War. Sporadic fighting continued, but you would not know it in jubilant Washington, where there were marching bands, residences ablaze with gas lights and candles, streets adorned with bunting — and an even much more unusual sight: the president of the United States of America, the nation's worrier-in-chief, looking and sounding refreshed, exhilarated.
That night, 150 years ago this Tuesday, President Abraham Lincoln, who held the nation with each other by way of its greatest crisis — and ended its cruel heritage of slavery — went to the theater.
Caption    Lincoln assassination  Hulton Archive  A drawing illustrates the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln on April 14, 1865, by actor John Wilkes Booth. Lincoln was shot in the head even though attending the comedy, &quotOur American Cousin," at Ford's Theatre in Washington. 4 persons have been hanged just after being convicted of conspiring with Booth.  A drawing illustrates the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln on April 14, 1865, by actor John Wilkes Booth. Lincoln was shot in the head while attending the comedy, &quotOur American Cousin," at Ford's Theatre in Washington. Four people today were hanged soon after getting convicted of conspiring with Booth. (Hulton Archive)                              See much more galleries                      Caption    The Lincolns  Library of Congress  The coffins of Abraham and Mary Todd Lincoln await reburial in the rebuilt Lincoln Monument in Springfield's Oak Ridge Cemetery in 1901. Lincoln died in 1865, various hours immediately after getting shot at Ford's Theatre in Washington by John Wilkes Booth. Andrew Johnson became the nation's 17th president.  The coffins of Abraham and Mary Todd Lincoln await reburial in the rebuilt Lincoln Monument in Springfield's Oak Ridge Cemetery in 1901. Lincoln died in 1865, many hours right after being shot at Ford's Theatre in Washington by John Wilkes Booth. Andrew Johnson became the nation's 17th president. (Library of Congress)                              See extra galleries                      Caption    Funeral train  Library of Congress  The locomotive &quotNashville" of the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati Railroad, leads President Abraham Lincoln's funeral train. The engine was bedecked with bunting, special black-fringed presidential flags and a portrait of the fallen president for part of the trip from Washington to Springfield. The train made stops in 11 cities and helped cement Lincoln's location in Americans' hearts.  The locomotive &quotNashville" of the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati Railroad, leads President Abraham Lincoln's funeral train. The engine was bedecked with bunting, particular black-fringed presidential flags and a portrait of the fallen president for part of the trip from Washington to Springfield. The train made stops in 11 cities and helped cement Lincoln's location in Americans' hearts. (Library of Congress)                              See a lot more galleries                      Caption    John Wilkes Booth  Chicago Tribune archive  John Wilkes Booth, President Abraham Lincoln's assassin. Federal troops surrounded him in 1865 on a farm near Bowling Green, Va. He later was located dying in a barn, the victim of either a suicide or a shooting.  John Wilkes Booth, President Abraham Lincoln's assassin. Federal troops surrounded him in 1865 on a farm close to Bowling Green, Va. He later was discovered dying in a barn, the victim of either a suicide or a shooting. (Chicago Tribune archive)                              See more galleries                      Caption    Assassination map  Chicago Tribune map published April 15, 1965, marking the centennial of President Abraham Lincoln's assassination.  Chicago Tribune map published April 15, 1965, marking the centennial of President Abraham Lincoln's assassination.                              See extra galleries
This web page has paused quite a few times in recent years to commemorate Lincoln's life and achievements: the 2009 bicentennial of his birth, then the 150th anniversaries of his upset nomination for the presidency, his Emancipation Proclamation to free the slaves in rebel states, and the Gettysburg Address, a 272-word speech that affirmed for the ages America's commitment to liberty.
&#108Related BooksReview: &aposThe Photographer and the President' by Richard S. LowrySee all related8
There is household-group pride in our appreciation of Lincoln, who came to prominence as a traveling lawyer from Springfield. He served in the Illinois legislature and a term in Congress ahead of losing a U.S. Senate race in 1858. Then he shrewdly maneuvered past far better-recognized rivals to snatch the nomination for president at the Might 1860 Republican convention in Chicago, held in the Wigwam, a structure on Lake Street.
Lincoln and the Tribune go back further. Managing editor and co-owner Joseph Medill, an abolitionist who helped organize the Republican Celebration in the early 1850s, was a Lincoln loyalist. And Lincoln returned the favor: He subscribed to the Tribune. We have his 1859 renewal letter&nbspto prove it.
Medill's Tribune worked tirelessly, and breathlessly, to help Lincoln, advertising his candidacy in February 1860 by insisting &quothis superior name is not soiled by a single act, political, social, moral or religious, that we or his buddies need to have blush to personal as his."
At the convention, Medill pulled a few tricks to nail down votes for his man. Medill's &quotmeanest" ploy, he acknowledged, was scheming to shunt household-state delegates of New York rival Sen. William Seward to a far corner of the Wigwam, exactly where their voices were drowned out by the cheers of Lincoln's supporters. Some Lincolnites in the Wigwam, by the way, had been paid to be there, so even back in 1860, Chicago politics wasn't beanbag.
No matter. Even have been he not a near-native son (he was born in a Kentucky log cabin), Lincoln would be our selection of lodestar. He was a principled leader and a realist, a merciful man, a warrior, a thinker, a communicator.
cComments
@Don Gettys Are you out of your thoughts?                     sunglassesheaven at 12:55 AM April 11, 2015
Add a comment          See all comments                                           9
In that last identity he's a man right after our own heart. Take into consideration how, at the sober memorial service in Gettysburg on Nov. 19, 1863, with the country's future imperiled and his re-election prospects grim, Lincoln took to the stage and distilled the enduring essence of America to a single phrase: &quota new nation, conceived in liberty, and committed to the proposition that all males are developed equal."
Much more than as soon as, scholars have looked at the panoply of American chief executives and tried to rank them. And, also extra than as soon as, Lincoln has topped the list. In 1982, the Tribune polled 49 historians and political scholars. Like quite a few other individuals, they placed Lincoln No. 1, ahead of George Washington and Franklin Roosevelt.
Washington, 1 scholar noted, set the standard for leadership and was indispensable to the American experiment of self-government. But Lincoln saved the nation through crafty, patient, imperfect but committed leadership. He focused on defeating what he termed an internal &quotrebellion," refusing to acknowledge he was fighting a war against an upstart nation. At times he went as well far, arguing, for instance, that his war powers justified suspending person liberties. But in defeating the South he in no way sought vengeance, and positioned the two sides to reconcile. &quotOf all the guys I ever met, he seemed to possess a lot more of the elements of greatness, combined with goodness, than any other," Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman stated of his commander in chief.
Lincoln knowledgeable a taste of victory on April four, 1865. Quickly just after Jefferson Davis, president of the Confederacy, fled Richmond, Lincoln took a really serious personal danger to take a look at the conquered capital, even walking down Most important Street with a tiny protective escort and checking out Davis' vacated mansion. In those days there was no worry of assassination and no official Secret Service protection. In Washington, strangers had access to the White Residence and, even though millions of Americans despised him, Lincoln was cavalier about guarding himself. He was usually warned of threats he shrugged them off.
The man who would assassinate the president, John Wilkes Booth, was an actor and Southern sympathizer. He was histrionic on and off the stage, and plotted first to kidnap the president through a ridiculously impractical scheme. On April 11, Booth was in the crowd for a speech by Lincoln about reconstruction in which the president cautiously endorsed suffrage for blacks. Booth decided this would be the final speech Lincoln ever made.
Assassinating Lincoln was quick. When the president decided to attend &quotOur American Cousin" at Ford's Theatre on April 14, Booth heard about it immediately: He was an insider at the theater and had gone there to choose up his mail. He had free rein of Ford's and that night the president, as usual, was underprotected.
And so the nation lost Lincoln, 5 weeks into his second term. &quotAll the land weeps," the Tribune wrote. &quotFor we really like none as we loved him. He was so good exactly where males are rarely excellent — in his simplicity, his integrity, his purity of patriotic purpose, his kindliness of heart — in particular toward the class of offenders prior to whose malignity he falls a martyr."
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
Ad Soyad:
 
UYARI: Küfür, hakaret, rencide edici cümleler veya imalar, inançlara saldırı içeren, imla kuralları ile yazılmamış, Türkçe karakter kullanılmayan ve tamamı büyük harflerle yazılmış yorumlar onaylanmamaktadır. Ayrıca suç teşkil edecek hakaret içerikli yorumlar hakkında muhatapları tarafından dava açılabilmektedir.
Breaking News Headlines
Related Breaking News

