Enter your email address:
Melissa McCarthy Weight Loss Wows ‘Spy’ Premiere: Melissa Lost 50 Pounds On Low-Carb Diet
Melissa McCarthy’s 50-pound weight loss was due to a low-carb diet. (Getty Images)
Melissa McCarthy’s 50-pound low-carb diet weight loss wowed fans at the May 26 premiere of her movie “Spy” in Berlin.
McCarthy’s weight loss was due to a low carb, high-protein diet, Examiner reported .
“Melissa has been on a high-protein, low carb diet,” said a source. “She’s been making small changes and seeing big results.”
McCarthy’s weight loss motivation was a desire to be healthy for her daughters, Vivian and Georgette, with husband Ben Falcone.
“Melissa realized she wasn’t being as healthy as she could be,” said a friend. “She wants to set a good example for her kids and she wants to be around to become a grandmother too.”
Sources said McCarthy has no desire to be super-skinny, but merely wants to be healthier.
“Melissa knows that fans love her big and beautiful, and she’s not obsessed with dieting,” said the insider. “She’s just looking for a happy medium.”
McCarthy, who has been overweight most of her life, said she had tried many times to lose weight on various diets. With her low carb diet, it appears Melissa may soon reach her weight loss goals. McCarthy will roll out a plus-size clothing line this fall.
Other celebrities who have lost dramatic amounts of weight on low-carb diets include Kim Kardashian, Megan Fox and Tim McGraw, who lost 40 pounds with the Paleo diet and CrossFit workouts.
Tim McGraw lost 40 pounds with a low-carb Paleo diet and CrossFit.
Neurologist Dr. David Perlmutter, author of Grain Brain , says the low-carb ketogenic, Paleo and Atkins diet prevents — and in some instances reverses — Alzheimer’s disease and ADHD.
“Carbs are devastating for the brain,” said Dr. Perlmutter. “Even slight elevations in blood sugar have been shown to increase the risk of Alzheimer’s disease.”
Fitness expert Robb Wolf agrees. Studies show low-carb diets reverse type 2 diabetes, prevents heart disease, and promote rapid fast weight loss without hunger, said Wolf, author of the bestselling Paleo Solution .
May 26th, 2015 |  Category: FITNESS
CHECK OUT THESE TOP STORIES FROM THE WEB
TODAY'S TOP STORIES

