Hello user Logout | profile
IDF carries out airstrikes in southern Gaza Strip in response to firing of rocket (Haaretz)
12:02 AM
11:31 PM
Gaza sources say Hamas bracing for possible Israeli counterstrike (Haaretz)
10:21 PM
9:33 PM
8:12 PM
Boko Haram kill at least 43 in Nigeria's Borno state (Reuters)
7:47 PM
U.S. Capitol building evacuated; police investigating reason for audible alarm (Reuters)
7:23 PM
Texas resident charged with conspiracy to provide material support to ISIS (Reuters)
5:30 PM
Or Yehuda Mayor David Yosef suspected of multiple sex crimes (Haaretz)
5:01 PM
Syrian military kills more than 140 ISIS members in air raid on base in Raqqa (Reuters)
4:29 PM
3:37 PM
UN says alarming spike in female suicide bombings in Nigeria (AP)
2:25 PM
No date set for delivery of S-300 air defense missiles to Iran, Russia says (AP)
IDF strikes Gaza targets after firing of rocket toward Israel
Israel Air Force strikes four targets in southern Gaza Strip in pre-dawn attack.
By Amos Harel | May 27, 2015 | 1:58 AM
IDF aircraft struck four targets in the southern Gaza Strip before dawn on Wednesday, after a rocket was fired from the Strip into an area near Gan Yavne on Tuesday evening.
The Israel Defense Forces issued a short statement stating it had targeted and hit militant infrastructure targets in the southern Gaza Strip, in response to the rocketfire at Israeli territory.
The statement concluded by placing responsibility for the firing of the rocket on Hamas.
Sirens sounded
At least one projectile was fired from Gaza and exploded in an open area near the port city of Ashdod, some 20 kilometers north of the Gaza Strip.
No damage was reported, but medical services said a 15-year-old girl from Ashdod arrived at the Barzilai Medical Center in Ashkelon suffering from shock.
The Home Front Command reissued instructions to the public following the rocket fire, highlighting the importance of finding a protected area and remaining there for ten minutes after the alarm sounds.
In Ashdod, schools were set to operate as normal on Wednesday, aside from institutions that don't have safe rooms.
Sign up to get Haaretz's top stories - directly to your inbox
Please use a valid email address
Register
I'd like to recieve emails on offers, appeals and commercial info
To get the latest from Haaretz Follow @Haaretzom
Like us on Facebook and get articles directly in your news feed
comments
Name
Name
Subject
Comment
Your comment here
By adding a comment i agree to this site’s Terms of use
REPLY TO THIS TALKBACK
Name
Subject
Comment
Your comment here
By adding a comment i agree to this site’s Terms of use
thank you
Your talkback has been submitted successfully.
If selected for publication, it will appear as soon as possible on Haaretz.com.
By Shirly Seidler , Gili Cohen , Amos Harel , Jack Khoury | 10:22 PM
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East.  Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict,  the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip,  the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.
© Haaretz Daily Newspaper Ltd. All Rights Reserved

