Like Us
(Photo: Reuters)
U.S. President Barack Obama applauds as he and First Lady Michelle Obama attend the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington February 6, 2014.
The Obama family attended Easter Sunday service at Alfred Street Baptist Church in Alexandria, Va., where the Rev. Howard-John Wesley spoke on the resurrection of Jesus while tying in modern-day social issues.
"How fitting that on the day we celebrate the rising of our Lord and savior, we also welcome our sitting president," Pastor Howard-John Wesley said  in welcoming the president, First Lady Michelle Obama, and their two daughters, Sasha and Malia, to the historical church.
Alfred Street Baptist church is deep-rooted in history as it was formed 1803 by African-American slaves during Thomas Jefferson's presidency. The predominately African-American megachurch now has more than 7,000 attendees.
The message given by Wesley reflected on  Jesus' resurrection and tied in some modern-day civil rights issues.
"Today in our political landscape, a line in the sand is drawn forcing you to make a decision on where you stand," Wesley told the congregation on Easter Sunday, according to The Washington Post .
"Where do you stand with rights for same-sex couples ... where do you stand on gun reform, where do you stand with police body cameras?" he asked. "Where do you stand on affordable health care? Life has a way of making you make a decision. Where you stand on the resurrection of Jesus Christ: You either believe it or you reject it."
On Friday, the president wished  those who celebrate Easter and Passover a good holiday in a statement.
"Michelle and I join our fellow Christians around the world in observing Good Friday and celebrating Easter this weekend. With humility and awe, we give thanks for the extraordinary sacrifice that Jesus made for our salvation," he said.
"And along with our fellow churchgoers and Christians, inspired by the mircale of His ressurection, we will challenge ourselves to be better, to love more deeply, and to serve 'the least of these' as an expression of Christ's love here on earth."
President Obama will also host an Easter prayer breakfast at the White House this Tuesday.
See the Obama family portrait on Easter Sunday: pic.twitter.com/T0i6y2qvAM
Inside Christian Daily

