April 10, 2015
Updated  4:59 p.m.
Orange County physicians hope Washington lawmakers will finally repeal a flawed formula that regularly threatens steep cuts in Medicare payments and creates stress for doctors and their patients.
Since 2003, Congress has passed 17 short-term bills known as “doc fixes” to block reductions in Medicare payments calculated using a method that is intended to reduce spending by tying reimbursement to the overall growth of the economy.
This year the cut will be 21 percent if the Senate doesn’t pass legislation, approved last month by the House, to repeal the so-called “sustainable growth rate,” or SGR, permanently.
The Senate reconvenes Monday after a two-week break and is widely expected to take up the bill shortly after its return. President Obama has indicated he will sign it.
“The doctors in California would not be able to see those patients at all if there’s a 21 percent cut,” said Dr. Sudeep Kukreja, president of the Orange County Medical Association. “Health care costs have gone up exponentially and the economic growth is much lower, and that’s where the problem comes.”
The legislation to repeal the SGR would also raise Medicare premiums for the wealthiest 2 percent of retirees starting in 2018 and extend for two years the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which covers nearly 1 million California children whose parents earn too much to qualify for Medi-Cal.
“Something has to be done,” said Gerald Kominski, director of the UCLA Center for Health Policy. “What you have is an annual crisis surrounding this update. Congress always acts to stop it but hasn’t done anything to fix the underlying problem.”
Kominski said over the years Medicare patients have received letters from their doctors saying they would be dropped if Congress didn’t approve the temporary fix.
“The good news is that the immediate annual crisis mindset will be eliminated, but in the longer term there’s still the relative threat that privately-insured patients generally look more profitable to doctors,” Kominski said. “There will be ongoing pressure on Medicare to keep up.”
The pending legislation would give doctors a 0.5 percent annual increase for the next five years as Medicare transitions to a system that would pay doctors based on quality of care rather than volume.
Dr. James Caillouette, a Newport Beach orthopedic surgeon who specializes in hip and knee replacements, said about half his patients are covered by Medicare.
“I have patients all the time ask if I plan to continue to accept Medicare,” Caillouette said. “It is clearly top of mind for patients.”
He said doctors across the country will be relieved if the Senate agrees to put an end to the short-term fixes.
“They need to be able to go back and change these policies in order to deal with the reality of the marketplace as opposed to letting the legislation march on and run over people,” he said.
Kukreja of the Orange County Medical Association is a neonatologist at Children’s Hospital of Orange County, so he doesn’t see Medicare patients. But he said he has a stake nonetheless because the federal government is a powerful force in what private insurers decide to pay.
“It influences every kind of payment from all the sources so it’s so important for the whole health care of the country,” he said.
Contact the writer: cperkes@ocregister.com 714-796-3686
Most popular
Comments are encouraged, but you must follow our User Agreement
Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial     slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about     tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to     allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to     republish your name and comment in additional Register publications     without any notification or payment.
Business Directory

