McDavid, Century & Cantonment
April 7, 2015
Adding more drama to a $5 billion budget standoff between Republian  legislative leaders, Gov. Rick Scott on Monday reversed course on his  one-time support for providing health coverage for low-income Floridians  as part of the federal health-care law known as Obamacare.
Scott blamed his rejection of a state Senate plan on a  distrust of the federal government, the result of an apparent breakdown  in negotiations between his administration and federal officials over a  program that pays hospitals and health providers for unreimbursed care.  The feds contribute at least $1.3 billion a year toward the Low Income  Pool, or LIP, program.
The U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services last year gave the state a one-year extension on LIP — set to expire on June 30 unless Scott and federal officials reach a  new agreement — but the Obama administration is unwilling to renew the  program in its current form.
The Senate and Scott included $2.2  billion to cover the costs of LIP in their budget plans, but Republican  House leaders did not.
To sweeten the deal for the feds, the  Senate linked the revised LIP program with another $2.8 billion for the “Florida Health Insurance Affordability Exchange,” or FHIX, to pay  insurance premiums for about 800,000 Floridians with incomes up to 133  percent of the poverty level. Under the Affordable Care Act, the federal  government would pay the state about $47 billion over the next eight  years for the program. That money would come from a pot that is  earmarked for Medicaid expansion across the country, though Senate  officials have tried to distance their proposal from the Medicaid  program.
The House has balked outright at a Medicaid expansion — or anything that looks like a Medicaid expansion — and on Monday  Scott joined the chorus of Republican naysayers.
“… Given that  the federal government said they would not fund the federal LIP program  to the level it is funded today, it would be hard to understand how the  state could take on even more federal programs that CMS could scale back  or walk away from,” Scott said in a statement.
As a candidate  seeking reelection to a second term, Scott gave tepid support in 2013 to  a similar Senate plan but failed to campaign for the doomed proposal’s  passage.
“While the federal government is committed to pay 100  percent of the cost, I cannot, in good conscience, deny Floridians the  needed access to health care,” Scott, who made his fortune in the  hospital industry, told reporters in February 2013.
It may not  come as a surprise that Scott, who ran as a tea party “outsider” in  2010, has shifted his position on Medicaid expansion. The conservative  Americans for Prosperity has targeted Republican senators, including  Senate President Andy Gardiner, for supporting the issue, part of what  was once considered a cornerstone of the Affordable Care Act but which  the U.S. Supreme Court left up to the states in a seminal ruling  upholding the federal law.
Scott’s turnaround didn’t persuade  Gardiner to back down from his chamber’s proposed fix for hospitals and  low-income, uninsured Floridians.
In a statement issued Monday in  response to Scott, Gardiner made a veiled threat about Scott’s push for  record-high public school funding and nearly $675 million in tax cuts.
“The  Senate also shares the governor’s commitment to tax relief and record  funding for education; however, if our state is forced to make up the  difference of $2.2 billion in hospital funding, every area of our budget  will be impacted,” Gardiner, R-Orlando, said. “Moving forward the  Senate will continue to advance the conservative, Florida-based,  free-market solutions we have proposed. We believe these innovative,  bipartisan proposals can gain the approval of our federal partners, and  we stand ready to meet with the House or Governor Scott at any time to  discuss a way forward.”
Without telling Scott, Gardiner last week  dispatched two senators to meet with federal health officials to  discuss the Senate’s plans. The next day, Scott’s office announced that  the Obama administration official in charge of negotiations had abruptly  ended the talks. It was later learned that the lead federal negotiator,  Eliot Fishman, had left the country for a long-planned trip to Israel.
Senate  budget chief Tom Lee, who met with Scott and his top aides late last  week, said Monday that the governor made it clear “he was no big fan of  dealing with the uninsured in Florida.”
Lee likened the  Legislature’s position to being in a “box canyon,” another term for a  three-sided, deep ravine with only one way in or out.
“Behind us,  we have the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services telling us  that we don’t have a budget solution on the one hand. And we have the  governor saying you can’t fix this problem using general revenue. And on  the other hand, we’ve got people saying they’re re not going to talk  about insuring low-income Floridians, which is part of the problem here.  We have too many Floridians creating this unreimbursed care. So we’re  very much in a box canyon right now,” Lee, R-Brandon, said.
A  fiery speech last week by Lee’s House budget counterpart Richard  Corcoran, slated to take over as House speaker after the 2016 elections,  deepened the divide between the two chambers over the coverage  expansion.
“We’re not dancing this session, we’re not dancing  next session, we’re not dancing this summer,” Corcoran, R-Land O’Lakes,  said before a House vote on the budget Thursday
The showdown  between the two chambers, coupled with the breakdown in talks between  the Scott administration and federal officials over LIP, heightens  uncertainty about whether lawmakers will finalize budget negotiations  before the scheduled May 1 end of the legislative session.
Politically,  the House has more to lose than the Senate by caving on the  Medicaid-expansion issue, said GOP strategist J.M. “Mac” Stipanovich.
“There’s  only one person here who has to prevail in his position, and that’s  Rep. Corcoran. Can President Gardiner not exert himself? Can he not lay  waste to all the priorities of the House? Can he not show the Senate’s  strength and its outrage? Of course he can. He doesn’t have to win on  Medicaid. He has to be strong and purposeful and he has to punish what  is a pretty flagrant breach of protocol. But he doesn’t have to win on  Medicaid,” Stipanovich said.
Meanwhile, House Republicans — and  Scott — are relying on the Obama administration to come up with the  LIP money left out of the House spending plan.
“In an ironic way,  the perception of victory for the conservatives probably lies in the  hands of their arch-enemies in Washington,” Stipanovich said.
Comments
Website (enter your own site, if any; not northescambia.com)
Your Comments:
Have a comment on this story?
We welcome your comments on this story, but there are some rules to follow::
(1) Be Nice. No comments that slander another, no racism, no sexism, no personal attacks.
(2) No Harrassing Comments. If someone says something bad about you, don't respond. That's childish.
(3) No Libel. That's saying something is not true about someone. Don't do it.
(4) Keep it clean. Nothing vulgar, obscene or sexually related. No profanity or obvious substitutions. Period.
(5) NorthEscambia.com reserves the right to remove any comments that violate our rules or we think to be inappropriate. We are not responsible for what is posted. Comments may not appear right away until they are approved by a moderator.
(6) Limit your comments to the subject in this story only, and limit comments to 300 words or less. Do not post copyrighted material. Comments will not be added to stories that are over 30 days old.
(7) No posts may advertise a commercial business or political group, or link to another commercial web site or political site of any kind.
 

