Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist stops a shot from Lightning right wing Ryan Callahan as James Sheppard defends, during Game 6. (Phelan M. Ebenhack/Associated Press)
Some say that the Stanley Cup is the toughest championship to win. To have a shot at doing so, however, the Lightning have an arguably even tougher task on their hands, and that is beating Henrik Lundqvist in a Game 7.
Tampa Bay could have avoided this Herculean challenge simply by winning Game 6 of the Eastern Conference finals Tuesday, in which they enjoyed the advantage of home ice. But the team got drubbed instead, 7-3 , and now the Rangers enjoy the ultimate advantage in a goalie who seemingly never loses when the stakes are at their highest.
The stakes were equally as high, at least for New York, in Game 6, and its goalie was more than up to the challenge, especially when he stoned Lightning star Steven Stamkos right on the doorstep:
another look at lundqvist save on stamkos pic.twitter.com/WmL5ZSoiZU
Lundqvist is working on a NHL-record streak of six straight wins in Game 7 situations. To put that into some perspective, only two other goalies, the legendary pair of Patrick Roy and Martin Brodeur, can say that they have so many as six Game 7 wins in their careers.
And it’s not like Lundqvist is simply doing an average job in those games while getting stellar offensive support. He has not allowed more than one goal in any of the six contests, making 179 saves on 184 shots for a 0.84 goals-against average. Then there’s this stat, just to support the theory that the goalie’s Game 7 prowess has quasi-supernatural qualities:
5/13/13: Henrik 35 saves, Rangers win Game 7 5/13/14: Henrik 35 saves, Rangers win Game 7 5/13/15: Henrik 35 saves, Rangers win Game 7
Of course, we’re past May 13 now, but we’re not done counting the ways in which Lundqvist figures to be nearly impossible to beat in Friday’s Game 7 in New York. He is 10-0 in his past 10 elimination games at Madison Square Garden, allowing less than a goal per game in those contests.
So the Lightning are set to bolt from the playoffs, right? Well, maybe not.
For one thing, there’s the simple notion of regression to the mean. Lundqvist is due to play relatively poorly in a Game 7, with his streak coming to an end, at some point, and it may as well be on Friday. After all, he had looked nearly untouchable in these very playoffs, giving up a paltry 21 goals in his first 13 games, before Tampa Bay torched him for six scores in both Game 2 and Game 3.
And that gets to a stronger source of optimism for the Lightning and their fans: the team’s offense. It led the NHL this season goals per game (3.16), and even in Tuesday’s dispiriting loss, the team served notice that it wouldn’t go quietly, scoring two goals in the third period.
Those goals were scored by right wing Nikita Kucherov, who had been all too quiet in the series, scoring just once in the first five games. If Kucherov can stay hot, he’ll give the Rangers a third dangerous player about whom to worry, along with Stamkos and Tyler Johnson.
But it’s Tampa Bay that has the biggest worry — how to possibly get pucks past Lundqvist, New York’s Game 7 Goliath.
This former editor and part-time writer at The Post is now happy to prove that if you combine 'blowhard' and 'blaggard,' you get 'blogger.' He previously had used 'Desmond Bieler' as his byline, but feels that shortening the first name to 'Des' nicely conveys his ever-decreasing gravitas. He also covers Fantasy Football.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!

