The bill would give states more flexibility with accountability, but keeps annual testing.
Sen. Lamar Alexander, chairman of the Senate education committee, and Sen. Patty Murray, the committee's top Democrat, unveiled a bipartisan bill to reauthorize No Child Left Behind on Tuesday.
+ More
The Senate education committee's top lawmakers on Tuesday unveiled a bipartisan plan to rewrite the long-outdated education law No Child Left Behind. 
The long-awaited legislation, dubbed the Every Child Achieves Act of 2015 , gives states significantly more leeway in developing their own accountability systems, as long as they meet minimum federal standards, such as ensuring all student subgroups are counted and enacting "challenging academic standards." Although states will still be required to use testing data in their accountability systems, it will be up to them to decide how much weight to give test scores and how they will use them in terms of accountability. 
The bill is the second proposal to come out of the education committee. Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., who chairs the committee –  in January released a working draft meant to spur discussion among committee members. The committee then hosted a series of hearings on the central issues in updating the law, including funding, annual testing , student and teacher accountability and the role of the federal government in public education. The committee plans to hold a markup session of the bipartisan bill next week.
Despite an extensive and controversial debate over the role of standardized testing , the Senate bill keeps annual testing in place. Students would be tested in English and math in third through eighth grades as well as once in high school; science tests would also be administered three times between third and 12th grade, for a total of 17 federally-mandated tests. A pilot program would allow states to experiment with "innovative assessment systems" within the state.
"Basically, our agreement continues important measurements of the academic progress of students but restores to states, local school districts, teachers and parents the responsibility for deciding what to do about improving student achievement," Alexander said in a statement. "This should produce fewer and more appropriate tests. It is the most effective way to advance higher standards and better teaching in our 100,000 public schools. We have found remarkable consensus about the urgent need to fix this broken law, and also on how to fix it."
Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., said in a statement that the compromise is "an important step" toward fixing the broken law, formally known as the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
"While there is still work to be done, this agreement is a strong step in the right direction that helps students, educators, and schools, gives states and districts more flexibility while maintaining strong federal guardrails, and helps make sure all students get the opportunity to learn, no matter where they live, how they learn, or how much money their parents make," said Murray, the ranking minority member of the committee. 
The Senate proposal also includes a dig at the Common Core State Standards .
"The federal government may not mandate or incentivize states to adopt or maintain any particular set of standards, including Common Core," the bill summary says. "States will be free to decide what academic standards they will maintain in their states."
Another federally backed reform the bill targets is teacher evaluation systems. The Senate proposal would end "federal mandates on evaluations" – as well as the federal definition of a highly qualified teacher – and allow states to develop their own evaluation systems if they choose to do so, and to define teacher qualification on their own. It would also prohibit the Secretary of Education from requiring states to develop and adopt certain academic standards, assessments or accountability systems as a condition for approval of a waiver or federal grant. Critics have chided the Obama administration for using NCLB waivers and Race to the Top grants as a way to push states to adopt education reforms it favors, such as teacher evaluation systems and college- and career-ready standards. Many states, opponents argue, were coerced into adopting Common Core because it met the administration's criteria.
The proposal would not allow Title I dollars – federal funds given to support low-income students – to follow students between schools. The practice, known as "Title I portability," has been backed by Republicans, including some who feel the flexibility should be extended to students whose families choose to send them to private schools. 
Opponents of Title I portability  – including the Obama administration – have said the move would divert much needed funds from low-income communities. Those who favor it say it's a matter of civil rights and equity.
Teachers unions and other education advocacy groups were also pressuring lawmakers to include dedicated funding for early childhood education in a reauthorization bill. A $27 billion proposal backed by the nation's two largest teachers unions suggested adding preschool funding as its own title in the law. While the Senate didn't agree to do that, the bill includes a provision clarifying states, districts and schools can use various funds to improve early childhood education programs.
A House bill to overhaul No Child Left Behind made it out of the education committee, despite strong objections from Democratic members who say they were left out of the process, but has not yet gone to the floor for a full vote. 
Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said in a statement that the bipartisan plan is "significant" and gives "a glimmer of hope" in the reauthorization process.
[ALSO: Senators Debate Testing, Federal Role in No Child Left Behind Rewrite ]
"Today, in a bipartisan manner, Sens. Alexander and Murray took an important first step by showing that, even in this current climate, one can find common ground by listening to teachers, parents and other important voices in education," Weingarten said. "Their framework restores ESEA’s original intent of mitigating poverty and addressing education equity."
Lily Eskelsen Garcia, president of the National Education Association, gave a more tentative endorsement of the Senate bill, saying union members will "review the bill with a fine-tooth comb." 
"We are also looking for concrete steps that remedy opportunity gaps for students and fix the broken test, label, and punish regime ushered in under No Child Left Behind," she said in a statement. "In the end, when all is said and done, the fundamental question that lawmakers have to grapple with is, what will this bill do differently for students in classrooms and schools across America if it’s signed into law?"
TAGS:
+ More
Allie Bidwell is an education reporter for U.S. News & World Report. You can follow her on Twitter or reach her at sbidwell@usnews.com.
Copyright 2015 © U.S. News & World Report LP.

