May 26, 2015 07:08 PM CDT May 26, 2015 07:17 PM CDT Gosselin: There's a four-link problem that's holding up a Dez Bryant signing, and Cowboys are just one of them
Gosselin: There's a four-link problem that's holding up a Dez Bryant signing, and Cowboys are just one of them
1/1
Louis DeLuca/Staff Photographer
Dallas Cowboys wide receiver Dez Bryant (88) eludes Detroit Lions outside linebacker DeAndre Levy (54) on a long pass and run in the third quarter during the Detroit Lions vs. the Dallas Cowboys NFL playoff game at AT&T Stadium in Arlington on Sunday, January 4, 2015.
Updated:
Related
SportsDay columnist Rick "Goose" Gosselin hosted a chat Tuesday morning to talk everything sports. Here are some of the highlights:
Question: I think Dallas should franchise Dez Bryant the next 2 years and let him walk. Draft WR 1st round next year. Who was the last Top 5 truly elite WR to win a title? Irvin? I really don't know.
Gosselin: The Seahawks and Patriots are both proof you don't need greatness on the flank to win it all. The last Hall of Fame caliber receiver to win a Super Bowl was probably Marvin Harrison with the Colts in 2006 — and he had a pretty good receiver on the other side in Reggie Wayne. I could see the Cowboys franchising Dez this season. Frankly, I could see the Cowboys franchising Dez each of the next two years. He'll make almost $25 million and that will carry him through his prime. I had a column last weekend saying that $100 million contracts to wide receivers has not been money well spent of late. And that's what Dez is going to want. The only thing worse than no contract for Dez would be a bad contract for Dez.
Question: What's with the Dez signing? Is it Condon, Dez or the Cowboys who is the problem? Or all of them?
Gosselin: DeMaryius Thomas, Julio Jones, A.J. Green and Dez Bryant are all wide receivers in their 26-28 year range. All want $100 million contracts. The Broncos, Falcons, Bengals and the Cowboys don't want to be the first to give it. When the first one signs to establish the market, the other three will follow in quick order. Dez and the Cowboys are just one link in a problem that's four links long.
Question: Is AJ Jenkins just a depth signing for OTAs / camp, or do they think he might be able to contribute? Something he showed made him a first-round pick, right?
Gosselin: Jenkins wasn't able to contribute at either Kansas City or San Francisco. Anything the Cowboys can get from him is a bonus. He'd better be able to cover kicks because he'll be no better than the fourth WR behind Bryant, Williams and Beasley. His impact, if he has one, will likely come on special teams this season.
 
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

