By Justin Sink Bloomberg News
This article was published today at 3:48 a.m.                   Updated today at 3:48 a.m.
WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama is calling for a ban on psychiatric "conversion" therapies aimed at changing the sexual orientation of gay and transgender youths, a top aide said Wednesday.
The White House shares concerns over the "potentially devastating effects" of the therapy, senior adviser Valerie Jarrett said in a blog post on the White House website in response to a petition calling for a federal law banning the practice.
"The overwhelming scientific evidence demonstrates that conversion therapy, especially when it is practiced on young people, is neither medically nor ethically appropriate and can cause substantial harm," Jarrett said. "This administration supports efforts to ban the use of conversion therapy for minors."
The move represents the president's latest effort to promote gay rights, though it's largely symbolic. A national ban would require congressional action, the White House said. In addition to publicly endorsing gay marriage in 2012, the president also revoked the "don't ask, don't tell" policy that kept openly gay people from serving in the military.
The Web petition to ban the therapy was inspired by the case of Leelah Alcorn, a 17-year-old transgender youth in Ohio who committed suicide. On her blog, Leelah said her parents had forced her to attend conversion therapy.
The practice, supported by some social conservatives and religious groups, includes treatments that seek to change sexual orientation or gender identity.
David Pickup, a licensed family therapist in California and Texas, said Wednesday that the president and gay-rights advocates are purposely misconstruing the work that he and others do. He said minors should never be forced into therapy, but he insisted that being gay is often brought about by serious emotional problems or sexual abuse.
"We believe that change is still possible. People go to therapy because they can change, because it really does work," Pickup said.
Information for this article was contributed by staff members of The New York Times.
A Section on 04/09/2015
Comments on: Obama calls for ban on gay therapy
To report abuse or misuse of this area please hit the "Suggest Removal" link in the comment to alert our online managers. Read our Terms of Use policy.
You must login to make comments.
HAMMOND, LA
BEEBE, AR
Real Estate
All rights reserved.
This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc.
Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2015, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.
We hope you've enjoyed your preview of ArkansasOnline.com
You've now read the maximum number of stories available without a subscription.
Subscribe now for complete and uninterrupted access to the best local, state and national news.
Already have an account?  
Already a print subscriber?  

