Posted on May 27 2015 - 6:43am by Gabe Lieb
The Ontario Legislature has passed a bill banning use of e-cigarettes in public places. Under the Smoke-Free Ontario Act the electronic device is now being treated as conventional cigarettes.
“It’s very clear that these things are the greatest harm-reduction devices that have been created to reduce the harm of tobacco,” conservative MPP Randy Hillier said in an interview after the vote. “For the government to be a barrier and impediment, I find tragic and devastating.”
In the debate and discussion the pros and cons of e-cigarettes were highlighted.
About the cons question is put up about what the vapor contains and if follow the studies, various carcinogens is found in the vapor of e-cigarettes. More to this, short term inflamation and decrease lung function have been noticed immediately after vaping. Hence, the concern arises as what may be the effect of inhaling the vapors for twenty long years.
Similar questions were also raised decades ago in the 1930s and 1940s about conventional cigarettes. Now, the same mistakes are not to be repeated as there may be potential long term health risk.
Also, it is argued that e-cigarettes may act as a gateway product to smoking for young people. A report found that 15 percent of Ontario kids have tried the new smoking device when they are just between Grades 9 and 12. The reason behind this is the flavored e-cigarettes. It comes in candy flavored too.
Apart from all these, in Ontario it was also discussed the wide use of electronic cigarettes may also undo the benefits of current benefits of smoking in public spaces. Even, as of now, there is no regulation on the manufacturing of e-cigarettes.


Published:
May 27, 2015 12:00AM
Gov. John Kasich wants to boost the state tax on cigarettes by a dollar, which would bring it to $2.25 per pack, a significant increase, but the first hike in the tax in a decade.
Kasich's bid for a tax increase is part of his plan to enhance state revenue to offset a proposed $5.7 billion cut in the state income tax that is part of his proposed budget.
House Republicans want to scale back the income tax cut to $1.2 billion. And they want no part of hiking the cigarette tax.
The Ohio Senate ought to reverse that call. Not only would hiking the cigarette tax raise revenues, it also would save lives.
Ohio is said to have the eighth-highest smoking rate in the nation. This year, smoking will lead to the deaths of more than 20,000 Ohioans; most will lose their lives to lung cancer.
An added worry: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently reported that the number of high-school and middle-school students using e-cigarettes -- also known as vaping -- has tripled in the past year. That's likely to fuel more smoking.
Kasich's attempts to boost the cigarette tax -- he would levy taxes on e-cigarettes, too -- and increase the state's severance tax on oil and gas production have been met with a cold shoulder from Republicans in the House who apparently see no conflict in cutting taxes while invoking their no-new-taxes mantra. Where is the money to come from if they cut the income tax -- whether it's a $5 billion cut or a smaller $1 billion cut?
The revenue enhancements Kasich is proposing are not regressive, as a sales tax increase would be. They are targeted increases. The severance tax boost would be funded by an industry that is reaping the benefits of exploiting finite natural resources and is currently paying one of the lowest taxes in the nation for doing so. The cigarette tax increase would be paid for by smokers; if you don't smoke, your taxes won't be going up. We live in a society that subsidizes a known carcinogen -- tobacco -- while underwriting much of the cost of health care for those who develop cancer because they choose to smoke.
Raising the tax on cigarettes and e-cigarettes would be a move in the public interest: It would discourage smoking by making it more costly. It would generate funds that, at least in part, could be earmarked for smoking cessation programs. And it would raise additional revenue to offset the income tax cut.
We hope the Senate takes another look at raising the cigarette tax. It's a good idea that would save lives. Public health ought to trump "no new taxes."
Want to leave your comments?

