An hour of current affairs background and debate from Australia and the world every Monday to Friday, 12:10 pm, ABC Local Radio and Radio National .
Search The World Today
The full story...
Peter Nettleton calls for safe return of his jihadist daughter and five grandchildren
ELEANOR HALL: Their images on social media shocked the world.
Now the Australian children photographed posing with their jihadist father with a collection of automatic weapons and a severed head are reported to be attempting to return home.
There are unconfirmed reports that Tara Nettleton, the wife of convicted terrorist Khaled Sharrouf, is trying to persuade Australian authorities to allow her and her children back into the country.
The Prime Minister though is taking a hard line on anyone in their situation, and a report from the United Nations has revealed a massive terror financing operation linked to Khaled Sharrouf and members of his family.
Nick Grimm has our report.
NICK GRIMM: Sydney woman Tara Nettleton converted to Islam when she married her childhood sweetheart, beginning a life with the man who would father their five children and who himself would become arguably one of the most notorious and recognisable terrorists in the world.
PETER NETTLETON: I haven't seen my daughter for over 10 years.
NICK GRIMM: Today Tara Nettleton's father Peter gave what comment he could on media reports that his daughter and five grandchildren are seeking to return home again after following Khaled Sharrouf to Syria.
PETER NETTLETON: I've only seen two of the grandkids.
I don't know their whereabouts or what they're doing, I only know through the newspapers and television where they are and what they aren't doing so I don't know any more than you guys.
I still love my daughter and I hope she comes home safely.
NICK GRIMM: And asked if his daughter deserved to be allowed to come home, Peter Nettleton had just this to say as he retreated from the media pack.
PETER NETTLETON: I can't comment on that. That's all I've got to say.
NICK GRIMM: Australian authorities like the federal police and ASIO (Australian Security Intelligence Organisation) have also declined to comment specifically on individual cases of foreign fighters seeking to return to Australia, but both sides of politics are clear that those that do should face the full force of the law and the Abbott Government plans to strip citizenship rights from dual-nationals to ensure they can't return at all.
TONY ABBOTT: Well, the point I make is that crime is crime is crime.
NICK GRIMM: What's less clear is what should happen to those who can't be held responsible for their actions.
Today the Sharrouf family is a case in point.
While Prime Minister Tony Abbott is adamant that foreign fighters should expect to pay for their crimes on their return, what awaits their dependents is another matter.
TONY ABBOTT: If a minor commits a crime, again, there are standard provisions for dealing with that but the point I want to stress is that criminals will be punished whether they're young, whether they're old, whether they're male, whether they're female, whether they're criminals abroad or criminals at home, criminals will be punished.
And to participate in the kind of barbarism that we have seen so often in the Middle East is just wrong.
It's morally wrong and it's a crime under Australian law and it will be punished.
NICK GRIMM: Immigration Minister Peter Dutton said on AM this morning the case highlights the need for ministerial discretion in considering whether to revoke the citizenship of foreign fighters and those who have supported them.
PETER DUTTON: People face very serious consequences when they return to this country if they've broken Australian law.
And if they're in proscribed areas and they don't have a reason for being there, if they've been involved in supporting terrorists or involved in activities directly themselves, they will face the full force of the law when they return to Australia.
MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: Okay, and the children?
PETER DUTTON: Well the children, as I say, it depends on the circumstance, the ages of the children.
If they're infants, for example, then they would be in state care, as we've seen with some people who have decided to abandon their children and go off and fight in the name of ISIL.
So those arrangements would operate as they would with any family where parents have abandoned their children or not acting in the best interests of their children.
BILL SHORTEN: Well, I'm very concerned about the children...
NICK GRIMM: Opposition Leader Bill Shorten had this to offer when asked about the issue earlier today.
BILL SHORTEN: These children are in warzones seeing terrible things.
I frankly think it is child abuse to put children into that situation.
Obviously we need to be briefed, we've seen some of the headlines in the newspapers, but making those children safe is important.
NICK GRIMM: The issue was vexing the minds of political leaders on the same day that a United Nations report was released revealing the full extent of Khaled Sharrouf's support for Islamic state.
The report was prepared by a team monitoring compliance with the UN Security Council's sanctions regime.
It's found a money transfer business owned by Khaled Sharrouf's sister and brother-in-law had sent up to $20 million overseas to finance terrorism.
Previous reports about the money transfer business, which has now been shut down, had indicated the sums being sent overseas had been much lower.
ELEANOR HALL: Nick Grimm with that report.
From the Archives
Sri Lanka is now taking stock of the country's 26-year-long civil war, in which the UN estimates as many as 40,000 Tamil civilians may have been killed. This report by the ABC's Alexander McLeod in 1983 looks at the origins of the conflict as it was just beginning.
The beginnings of civil war: Sri Lanka in 1983

