NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
The Wisconsin Supreme Court, defined in recent years by polarization and reports of dysfunction, could be profoundly reshaped by an election on Tuesday. The outcome hinges on two choices — whether voters re-elect a justice who is seen as part of the court’s liberal minority and whether they approve a constitutional amendment that seems likely to lead to the installation of a conservative chief justice.
The election is officially nonpartisan, but the ideological divides are clear. Money has poured in from far beyond Wisconsin, and harsh advertisements have filled the airwaves. Donations have poured in, including some from outside Wisconsin, and harsh advertisements have filled the state’s airwaves.
“My vision of the Wisconsin Supreme Court and my vision of the judiciary is a nonpartisan judiciary, and I intend to stand up for that principle,” said Justice Ann Walsh Bradley, the incumbent, who is seeking her third 10-year term. Many of Justice Bradley’s donors are prominent Democrats, and her campaign has accepted money from organized labor.
Her opponent, Judge James Daley, a former prosecutor serving on a state circuit court, said that Justice Bradley was motivated by “extreme liberal personal politics” and that he was the reformer on the ballot. Judge Daley’s campaign has received donations from the Republican Party, and he has met with Republican groups on the campaign trail.
“I am a conservative jurist, meaning I believe the rule of law and the Constitution are more important than my personal beliefs or political agendas,” Judge Daley said. “They have nothing to do with the work I’d do on the Supreme Court.”
Not so long ago, elections for the Wisconsin Supreme Court were relatively quiet, and candidates prided themselves on gaining bipartisan support. But following a national trend that has been exacerbated by years of bitter legislative fights over Wisconsin’s political identity, the state’s judicial races have taken on some of the partisan trappings of elections for Congress or the governor’s office.
“It’s a reflection in part of the polarization in Wisconsin in general, which has been quite remarkable over the last few years,” said Paul Nolette, an assistant professor of political science at Marquette University in Milwaukee.
In some ways, though, the race between Justice Bradley and Judge Daley has been overshadowed by a ballot question on how the Supreme Court’s chief justice is selected. The proposed amendment to the Wisconsin Constitution would have justices vote for a chief, replacing the system of putting the court’s longest-serving member in that role.
Supporters have portrayed the change as a more democratic method, but opponents say the ballot question is a blatantly partisan effort to pick off Chief Justice Shirley S. Abrahamson, who has been on the Supreme Court since 1976 and is considered part of its liberal bloc.
The election comes as the court is under heightened scrutiny. Accounts of severe dysfunction and a lack of collegiality among the justices have trickled out in news reports over the years, and some judges have criticized recusal rules that allow members to hear cases involving donors to their campaigns.
The justices are expected to be in the news again in the coming weeks as they consider whether an investigation can proceed into claims of improper coordination in 2011 and 2012 between conservative groups and the campaign of Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican and a probable presidential candidate. (Justice Bradley has recused herself because her son is a partner at a law firm involved in the case.)
That case is only the latest high-profile, politically charged issue to go before the court in recent years. In that time, Chief Justice Abrahamson, 81, has become especially unpopular among the state’s conservatives. In her role as the top judge, which she has held since 1996, she helps set the court’s agenda and serves as the administrative leader of Wisconsin’s judiciary.
If the proposed constitutional amendment passes, a majority of her colleagues seem likely to vote to demote her. Four of the seven justices are considered conservative, and a fifth will join the court if Justice Bradley loses. Chief Justice Abrahamson said the measure represented interference from outside interests.
“The proposed constitutional amendment increases the prospect of partisan politics,” she said in an email. “That’s not good for our courts or the people of Wisconsin, who deserve a fair, impartial, neutral and nonpartisan judiciary.”
Outside political groups have been active in supporting the amendment, airing advertisements that present the solution as a fairer way of doing business. Amber Wichowsky, an assistant professor of political science at Marquette, said those ads could affect the result, especially in an off-year election like this one, in which turnout will probably be low and some voters might not be well informed.
“The way they kind of pitch it is, ‘Why should it be the longest-serving justice?’” Professor Wichowsky said. “Is that their interest? No, their interest is that the chief justice is Abrahamson and she’s a liberal.”
Loading...

