Sen. Rand Paul announced on April 7 that he is running for the GOP nomination. (AFP PHOTO / MICHAEL B. THOMAS).
Most members of Congress will tell you that they’re a champion of small business. However, most can’t truly empathize, because they haven’t actually run a small business. Even fewer have started one from scratch.
Sen. Rand Paul is one of the exceptions.
One part politician, one part physician, Paul – who this week officially announced his candidacy for president – is an ophthalmologist by trade. After completing his residency at Duke University, Paul (the son of former Sen. Ron Paul) worked for two medical groups in Bowling Green, Ky. before starting his own ophthalmology practice in 2007.
“I’ve been fortunate, I’ve been able to enjoy the American Dream,” Paul said during a speech declaring his candidacy on Tuesday. “I worry, though, that the opportunity and hope are slipping away for our sons and daughters.”
Since running for Congress in 2010, Paul has tried to distance himself from what he calls “the Washington machine.” Despite his family ties and a history working for his father’s campaigns, he describes himself as a political outsider who put his career in medicine on hold (though he still performs pro-bono surgeries) in a bid to fundamentally change Washington.
But which changes are on top of his agenda, and how would might they affect employers and entrepreneurs ? Moreover, would his experience running his own company affect the way he would run the country?
Here are five things business owners should keep in mind about a potential Rand Paul White House.
He favors flat – and lower – taxes
If elected, Paul has said he would push for a flat tax rate of 17 percent. His plan would thus replace the current system, with its different rates for different income levels and countless exemptions and breaks, with a single rate for every American. That 17 percent rate would also apply to business taxes.
During a speech earlier this year at the Conservative Political Action Conference, he said the plan would constitute “the largest tax cut in American history.” He has many times argued that lowering taxes will leave Americans with more money in their pockets and this would drive up consumer spending.
“The ticket to the middle class is not higher taxes on the very businesses that must create the jobs,” Paul said last year in his response to the president’s State of the Union. “Prosperity comes when more money is left in the private marketplace.”
Capital gains taxes? Under Paul’s plan, they would be abolished altogether – a move that could prove popular with investors and one that some business groups believe would encourage more investments in new and growing companies.
He’s for Economic Freedom Zones
No, Paul doesn’t want to limit freedom to a select number of neighborhoods. The Economic Freedom Zones, as he calls them, would instead create a unique set of rules and regulations governing certain economically distressed areas of the country. In those zones, individuals and businesses would still have a flat-rate tax, but of only five percent. Payrolls taxes would also come down.
The plan resembles a proposal by President Obama to create so-called Promise Zones, though Paul believes the president’s plan “recycles worn out ideas that haven’t worked in the past.”
“Burdensome, job-killing regulations will be removed, and business will expand,” in his Economic Freedom Zones, Paul said during that same response to the State of the Union. “More money and more jobs will flow back to the areas that have suffered the most in this economic crisis.”
He’s tired of Uncle Sam, the investor
Many Republicans have blasted the Obama administration for meddling too much in the private sector, often pointing to the government’s troubled investment in the solar cell maker Solyndra as Exhibit A. Not many have been quite as openly critical as Paul , though.
“Government is inherently bad at picking winners and losers,” Paul said during a speech last year. “In the marketplace, most small businesses fail. If government is to send money to certain people to create businesses, they will more often than not pick the wrong people and no jobs will be created.”
With departments such as the Small Business Administration and the Treasury Department increasingly experimenting with new programs – and trying to expand existing ones – that invest taxpayer money into new, small and growing businesses, it’s unclear whether those initiatives would continue under a Paul administration.
He’s fed up with the Fed
Ron Paul famously fought to close the Federal Reserve, even publishing a book titled “End the Fed.” His son hasn’t taken the fight quite that far, though he has expressed plenty of concerns about the central bank. Speaking earlier this year in Iowa, Paul compared the central bank to Lehman Brothers and blamed it for many of the nation’s most pressing economic problems.
Rather than close the Fed altogether, though, the younger Paul wants to be able to take a deep look into its practices and comment on its decisions. He has authored legislation that would allow a congressional oversight office to not merely peek at the Fed’s books, but also weigh in publicly on its monetary policy decisions. Some worry the move would give Congress unwarranted influence over decisions about, for example, the country’s interest rates, removing the Fed’s current insulation from politics.
He has tried to “friend” Silicon Valley
In a move befitting his campaign message, Paul has over the past couple years courted the support of the disruptive (and wealth-filled) start-up and technology communities. With questions over whether he can raise enough money from Wall Street’s elite, it seems he has identified Silicon Valley, with its high-powered tech executives and billionaire entrepreneurs, as a potentially lucrative alternative source of funding.
His first fundraising event as a presidential candidate is to be held this week at the home of an successful manufacturing entrepreneur in Newport Beach, Calif. In addition, Paul’s is the first campaign to accept donations in the form of Bitcoins.
Still, the courtship isn’t all about raising money.
Paul opened an office last month in the most prominent start-up incubator in Austin (a co-working space called Capital Factory), where his team plans to tap into its wealth of tech talent to build, according to a statement from Paul’s digital strategist, “the most innovative, tech-forward operation of any elected official in the country.” During an event last month in Austin at the South by Southwest convention, Paul suggested that the underlying theme of his campaign should appeal directly to innovators.
“It’s not just that you’re into tech that makes you open to our message, it’s if you’re part of the leave-me-alone coalition,” he told a large crowd at the event. “The leave-me-alone coalition thinks that government doesn’t know everything and that government really shouldn’t be telling us what to do.”
J.D. Harrison covers startups, small business and entrepreneurship, with a focus on public policy, and he runs the On Small Business blog.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

