Posted May 27, 2015 10:12:18
Las Vegas police say they are not investigating claims blues legend BB King was poisoned, after coroners said they were investigating but had no evidence so far of foul play.
He suffered from Type II diabetes for the last two decades of his life.
Two of his daughters — Karen Williams and Patty King — alleged he was poisoned by his business manager Laverne Toney and his personal assistant.
"At this point we don't have evidence that these allegations of foul play will be substantiated," Clark County Coroner John Fudenberg said.
"However we are taking them very seriously and will be conducting a thorough investigation" in coordination with police.
But an LVMPD statement on Tuesday said: "Until such time as the Clark County Coroner determines Mr King's death to be from other than natural causes, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department is NOT moving forward with any investigation."
Despite his legendary musical status, King's final days were clouded by an apparent dispute between his family and manager over his care.
"I believe my father was poisoned and that he was administrated foreign substances to induce his premature death," the daughters wrote in separate but identical affidavits, according to entertainment news reports.
"(I) request a formal investigation into this matter," the court documents said.
Mr Toney, who is the executor of King's estate, has shrugged off the daughters' charge.
An attorney for King's estate also dismissed the daughters' accusations as "ridiculous."
AFP
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .
Features
An Australian company is offering a solution to indoor air pollution from kerosene lamps and stoves in India.
Top Stories
Most Popular
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)

