Posted:
Updated:
On Wednesday, longtime Democratic Central Coast Representative, Lois Capps, announced she will not seek reelection in 2016.
The announcement shakes up the entire political landscape heading into the next election.
Republican Justin Fareed announced his candidacy for Capps' seat on Wednesday, as well as Santa Barbara Mayor Helene Schneider. Katcho Achadjian and Chris Mitchum say they might also throw their hats in the ring. Plus, Lois Capps' daughter Laura was mentioned in the Washington Post as a potential candidate.
Nonetheless, it's a big decision for Lois Capps, who's been in office for 17 years. After the death of her husband Walter in 1997, Lois Capps was victorious in a special election the next year to fill her late husband's seat in Congress.
That general election win would be the first of eight for Capps.
Her last race was her closest, defeating Republican challenger Chris Mitchum by less than four percent of the vote.
"I've been so humbled and honored that you would trust me to be your representative to Congress," said Rep. Lois Capps. "But now I believe it is time for me to return home, back to the community and family that I love so much."
Several people in the world of politics praised Lois Capps Wednesday for her work in Congress and wished her well, including President Barack Obama, Senator Barbara Boxer, Santa Barbara County Supervisor Salud Carbajal, and Laura Capps, who told KSBY she's "so proud of her mom and her amazing career."
Capps' office says she will meet with people up and down the Central Coast over the next two days to talk about her legislative priorities for the rest of her term.
KSBY spoke with Chris Mitchum over the phone Wednesday. He says he'll continue with his lawsuit against Capps over an ad she ran during the last election.
WEATHER
Most Popular StoriesMost Popular Stories More>>
Wednesday, April 8 2015 6:38 PM EDT2015-04-08 22:38:26 GMT
UPDATE: The FBI says it is now offering a reward for information that leads to the arrest of Victor Speedy Gonzalez, 36, of Nipomo, who authorities say is involved in the drug trafficking ring.
UPDATE: The FBI says it is now offering a reward for information that leads to the arrest of Victor Speedy Gonzalez, 36, of Nipomo, who authorities say is involved in the drug trafficking ring.
Wednesday, April 8 2015 9:26 AM EDT2015-04-08 13:26:55 GMT
A medical practice in Santa Barbara is closed tonight as investigators try to figure out how many hundreds of people may have been exposed to Hepatitis C and other blood borne illnesses there. Hundreds of people will be getting letters this week informing them of their risks and informing them to get tested immediately. It is an investigation involving three agencies: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the State Department of Public Health and the Santa Barbara County Public Hea...
A medical practice in Santa Barbara is closed tonight as investigators try to figure out how many hundreds of people may have been exposed to Hepatitis C and other blood borne illnesses there. Hundreds of people will be getting letters this week informing them of their risks and informing them to get tested immediately. It is an investigation involving three agencies: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the State Department of Public Health and the Santa Barbara County Public Hea...
Monday, April 6 2015 8:54 PM EDT2015-04-07 00:54:14 GMT
A 21-year old man was killed in an ATV crash at the Oceano Dunes over the weekend, officials tell KSBY News.Very little information about the incident is being released, but officials say the man was riding in the open riding area Saturday when he was thrown from the ATV. He was the only person on the vehicle.At this time, drugs or alcohol are not suspected to be contributing factors in the crash, which officials say appears to be an accident.State Parks officials identified the man as Erwin ...
A 21-year old man was killed in an ATV crash at the Oceano Dunes over the weekend, officials tell KSBY News.Very little information about the incident is being released, but officials say the man was riding in the open riding area Saturday when he was thrown from the ATV. He was the only person on the vehicle.At this time, drugs or alcohol are not suspected to be contributing factors in the crash, which officials say appears to be an accident.State Parks officials identified the man as Erwin ...
Wednesday, April 8 2015 1:48 PM EDT2015-04-08 17:48:40 GMT
   

