Sponsored By
Krista Gmelich - KMOX Capitol Bureau April 3, 2015 9:59 AM
Related Tags:
Health News & Information: CBSStL.com/Health
Election Returns
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. (KMOX Capitol Bureau) – The Senate passed a bill to make Missouri the final state to establish a state prescription drug monitoring program.
The bill would allow a government database to monitor the prescribing and dispensing of narcotic-type drugs.
Sen. Tom Dempsey, R-St. Charles County, called bill’s passage an important step.
“For the first time in several years, we found a way to work through the privacy concerns and pass legislation instituting a prescription drug monitoring program,” Dempsey said.
Under the provisions of the bill, pharmacists and other dispensers of medicine would be required to send information to the State Data Center for the prescriptions of some controlled substances like narcotic-type drugs. The state would then review the information, and if there appears to be a violation of law or professional standards, notify law enforcement or the appropriate professional regulatory body.
However, the information obtained from the prescription drug database alone cannot be used as grounds for an arrest or a search warrant.
Dempsey said the intent behind the bill is to make Missouri a safer state.
“I think where it’s really going to make a difference are those drugs that are related to pain management, which are highly addictive and in many cases are combined with other narcotics leading to deaths,” Dempsey said.
The bill’s sponsor – David Sater, R-Cassville – said there is an increasing problem with drug abuse among the teenage population.
“It’s a major problem for the abusers and also for our kids,” Sater said. “And we have a growing problem with opiate abuse in our teenage population also.”
But legislators voiced privacy concerns, especially as there have been problems with prescription drug programs in other states.
“I took an oath to the Constitution,” said Sen. Ed Emery, R-Lamar. “I still believe this is an unconstitutional provision and so I still, regardless of the work that’s been done to try to avoid the pitfalls of the other states, I still believe we as a body should reject it.”
Sen. Eric Schmitt, R-St. Louis County, compared passing this bill to opening Pandora’s Box.
“Because we’ve been told we’re the only state, because we’ve been told … we’ll be in a much better place, that curiosity, that momentum has driven us to this place, and it is my concern that we are indeed opening Pandora’s Box with this bill,” Schmitt said.
The bill was passed 24-10 and now awaits vote in the House.
(TM and Copyright 2015 CBS Radio Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries. CBS RADIO and EYE Logo TM and Copyright 2015 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Used under license. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)
RT @ NewsDirKMOX : If you were following the KMOX Food Fight, the winning chef is: Chef Pier Paolo Pitta of Final Cut Restuarant @ kmoxnews 1 hour ago
Follow CBS St. Louis
Other CBS Local Cities
©2015 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.

