Featured
Latest Headlines
Featured
Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 916-321-1323 or email funeral@sacbee.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By SCOTT BAUER Associated Press
04/06/2015 11:59 PM
04/06/2015 11:59 PM
MADISON, Wis.
The makeup of the Wisconsin Supreme Court, and whether it's led by a conservative or liberal justice, is at stake on Tuesday during an election that has drawn little attention in the state.
Voters will decide whether to re-elect Justice Ann Walsh Bradley to a third 10-year term or to elect her challenger, Rock County Circuit Judge James Daley. They also will consider scrapping the 126-year-old practice of having the most senior member of the court serve as chief justice.
But turnout is expected to be light: Only two out of every 10 potential voters are expected to cast ballots.
Although officially nonpartisan, conservative justices hold a majority on the court, which in recent years has been at the center of the some of the largest political fights in Wisconsin — including upholding Gov. Scott Walker's law that effectively ended collective bargaining for public workers. Bradley and Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson are considered the liberal minority on the seven-member court.
Daley has described himself as a conservative and he actively courted Republican voters in his campaign, drawing criticism from Bradley. She accused Daley of politicizing the race, while he said Bradley should be removed because she is at the center of a dysfunctional court.
The court's four-justice conservative majority has been bickering openly with Abrahamson and Bradley for years.
Emails emerged in 2011 that revealed conservative-leaning Justice David Prosser, a former Republican state Assembly speaker, used a derogatory term to refer to Abrahamson and had vowed to "destroy" her. Prosser also acknowledged to police that he wrapped his hands around Bradley's throat after she charged him during an argument in chambers that same year.
A constitutional amendment on the ballot could also lead to the removal of Abrahamson as chief justice, a position she's held since 1996. The amendment, put on the ballot by the Republican-controlled Legislature, would require the seven justices to decide every two years who they want to serve as chief justice. Currently, the position goes to the most senior member.
Abrahamson, 81, has been on the court since 1976. If the amendment is approved, the liberal Abrahamson is expected to be replaced as chief justice by one of the four conservative justices.
Supporters, including the state chamber of commerce — which poured at least $600,000 into an effort to get the amendment passed — say it's undemocratic to have the position go automatically to the justice with the most experience. Only six other states use the same system, while 22 others have a peer selection process.
Liberal attack group the Greater Wisconsin Committee was working to defeat both the amendment and Daley.
Still, this year's Supreme Court race was the quietest of the past six contests dating back to 2007, which marked the beginning of large spending by outside partisan interests in judicial races in Wisconsin.
Daley ran no television ads in his race and no outside group ran spots to bolster his campaign.
Join the Discussion
The Sacramento Bee is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

