40mDavid Schoenfield
The first returns are in on the All-Star voting and the Kansas City Royals have leaders at five positions.
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans like Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
7hDavid Schoenfield
The Kansas City Royals have drafted the most WAR over the past 10 years at 84.1, more than double the value the Cleveland Indians have drafted.
7hDavid Schoenfield
Here's Tuesday's chat wrap. All I can say is there was no talk of Jason Heyward this week. But there was still plenty of baseball to discus!
Adam Hunger/USA TODAY Sports
12hDavid Schoenfield
Jeremy Guthrie of the Kansas City Royals put up this pitching line on Monday against the Yankees: 1 IP, 9 H, 11 R, 11 ER, 3 BB, 1 SO, 4 HR.
Play0:32
19hChristina Kahrl
Monday's best baseball performances came on the mound -- and they involved anyone but the usual suspects.
21hDavid Schoenfield
The Minnesota Twins are ahead of the Detroit Tigers in the American League Central and they're breathing down the necks of the Kansas City Royals.
Getty Images, USA TODAY Sports
1dDavid Schoenfield
The Yankees are sliding, Josh Hamilton is returning, and Michael Wacha is in some elite company.
1dBrandon Land
The Angels are footing most of his salary, and a positive environment is what will yield the best results for the former Rangers slugger.
Sunday's top performances in baseball included another strong start by Michael Wacha, who improved to 7-0 by beating the Royals.
A power-packed lineup, impressive bullpen and improved defense could be enough for the Astros to sustain their surprising success.
Anthony Rizzo's power display for the Cubs against the Diamondbacks headlines Saturday's rundown of top performers on big-league diamonds.
Steve Mitchell/USA TODAY Sports
3dChristina Kahrl
New Marlins manager gets his first win amid questions about the starting rotation.
Getty Images
4dDavid Schoenfield
A Wall Street Journal report shows that participation in youth baseball appears to be in heavy decline.
4dDavid Schoenfield
For the May 22 edition of the ICYMI post on the ESPN SweetSpot Network, thereâ
About the Kansas City Royals and All-Star voting
44m
Been with ESPN.com since 1995
0 Shares
So the first returns are in on the All-Star voting and the Kansas City Royals have leaders at five positions : Catcher Salvador Perez , third baseman Mike Moustakas , shortstop Alcides Escobar and outfielders Alex Gordon and Lorenzo Cain . Considering Omar Infante , who has been terrible, is second in the voting at second base, it's pretty obvious that the Royals bandwagon gained a lot of extra passengers with last year's World Series run.
You know what though? It's not that crazy that all those players are leading their positions. Consider:
Perez: Third among AL catchers in WAR, after finishing second to Yan Gomes (who has been injured) last season.
Moustakas: Second to Josh Donaldson in WAR while leading AL third basemen in batting average and OBP.
Escobar: This is a bit of a stretch as he's eighth among shortstops in WAR after ranking fifth last season. But there's also no clear top guy, and two of those who ranked ahead of him last year have been injured (J.J. Hardy and Jose Reyes ) and two haven't played all that well ( Erick Aybar and Alexei Ramirez ). Jose Iglesias leads in WAR but he also has the grand total of 10 runs and six RBIs, so Escobar is arguably as good as any choice in a weak crop.
Cain: Thanks to his great defensive metrics and a solid .306/.355/.427 batting line, he's tied with Mike Trout for the AL lead in WAR.
Gordon: Ninth among outfielders in WAR after ranking third last season.
Eric Hosmer is also an All-Star candidate as is reliever Wade Davis , who has yet to allow a run, so the Royals could easily end up with five to seven All-Stars. They've had three each of the past two seasons -- Perez, Gordon and closer Greg Holland both years. What hasn't happened in a long time is a Royals player starting the All-Star Game via the fan vote. Perez started last year but only as an injury replacement for Matt Wieters . Before that, you have to go back to Jermaine Dye in 2000.
Anyway, it's a big change from 2014, when no Royals player finished in the top five at their position (or top 15 for outfielders).
0 Shares

