Tech news sites Re/code and Gigaom sold to media startups
Two San Francisco tech news sites announced acquisitions by venture-backed media companies Tuesday.
Respected Silicon Valley news outlet Re/code was acquired by Vox Media Inc. in an all-stock deal. Re/code, which was founded by veteran tech journalists less than two years ago, joins a stable of media brands at Vox, including consumer tech site the Verge, sports hub SB Nation, real estate news outlet Curbed, and national news site Vox.com.
Gigaom, a popular tech news site that shut down in March after it ran out of money, was acquired by Knowingly, an Austin, Texas, startup. Gigaom will be revived in August.
Despite the acquisitions, news sites are not likely to be the next big-ticket exit for investors, said media analyst Ken Doctor of Newsonomics — most are struggling to make digital advertising pay. But Doctor said some venture firms that fund them care more about audience growth than ad revenue. And they expect the companies to be acquired by larger media corporations down the road.
Founded in 2003, Vox Media has raised more than $100 million in venture capital, according to Crunchbase.
Vox aspirations
Last year, Vox CEO Jim Bankoff told Forbes that he wanted his company to be the next generation Condé Nast, the publishing giant that owns the New Yorker, Wired and Vanity Fair.
“We want Vox to be the preeminent modern media publisher,” he said. “We look at what Condé Nast did in magazine publishing, and we can do that in digital publishing, meaning scale and quality and value.”
Re/code, which employs 18 writers, will operate under the same leadership and remain independent, according to a statement by Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher, Re/code’s co-executive editors who previously worked at the Wall Street Journal.
Re/code will now collaborate with the Verge, which had been a competitor. Re/code will continue to hold conferences — key parts of the business model for many tech news outlets.
“No RIP. @recode lives on, as do the Code Conferences. Just within a great new home with lots of added advantages,” Mossberg tweeted Tuesday.
Details about Gigaom’s future are less clear, though its content library will survive, along with its website, after the Knowingly acquisition.
Knowingly will not add content to the site before its Aug. 15 relaunch.
The startup also owns Correctica.com, a website that finds errors on the Web, and iForetold, which allows users to win points for making correct predictions about pop culture and current events.
“We are excited to be a chapter of the Gigaom story and look forward to continuing its mission of ‘humanizing the impact of technology,’” said Knowingly CEO Byron Reese  in a statement. Reese formerly worked at Demand Media, a content farm that pumps out pieces designed to be popular, based on algorithms. Demand Media operates sites including eHow and Cracked.
Residual value
Because of Gigaom’s financial troubles, Knowingly probably got a bargain, said Doctor.
With the site’s audience of 6.5 million unique readers per month, it has a lot of residual value — it could still be a moneymaker, even if it did make a switch to more engineered content, he said.
“There are a lot of people ... who have it bookmarked in various ways and who will still be hitting that page for a long time,” Doctor said.
Gigaom’s former managing editor, Laura Owen, now an editor at Nieman Lab, tweeted Tuesday that the acquisition was news to the site’s former writers, who were let go in March when the company ran out of cash. Re/code estimated that before it shut down, Gigaom had about 70 staff members.
“All operations have ceased. We do not know at this time what the lenders intend to do with the assets or if there will be any future operations using those assets,” Gigaom announced in March, adding it did not intend to file for bankruptcy.
“Gigaom is winding down and its assets are now controlled by the company’s lenders. It is not how you want the story of a company you founded to end,” wrote founder, Om Malik, in a blog post after that announcement. Malik was not immediately available for comment and, on May 26, appeared to be tweeting from a vacation in Iceland.
Gigaom raised $22 million in venture funding between its 2006 founding and 2014. Its business model was also based on industry research and hosting events.
“Their subscriptions didn’t scale enough to pay (on) the event side, and they had some pretty big bills — that’s what I see with a lot of the venture-backed stuff,” Randy Giusto, vice president and lead analyst at Outsell told The Chronicle last week .
As for whether venture capital can sustain news sites, “I think it’s an experiment for venture right now. It is difficult to make money off of advertising,” he said. “It’s really hard to find that inflection point where you become a Buzzfeed.”
Greta Kaul is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail: gkaul@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @gretakaul
Latest Top Business Videos
9

