Phillies GM Amaro apologizes for perceived rip of fans
Ruben Amaro Jr. may have wished he had covered his mouth rather than issue the quotes that were circulating Tuesday in which he said Phillies fans don’t understand the game when it comes to issues like promoting young pitchers like Aaron Nola and Zach Eflin. (Matt Slocum/Associated Press)
By Dennis Deitch, ddeitch@21st-centurymedia.com
NEW YORK — In context, it did not seem to be all that ridiculous a statement.
Ruben Amaro Jr., when asked by CSNPhilly.com about a small segment of the Phillies’ fan populace that is in a big hurry to see Double-A pitching prospects Aaron Nola and Zach Eflin pitch in the majors for an also-ran for some reason, opined that anyone who thinks Nola and Eflin would be best served in the big-league rotation after six weeks in Reading might not know much about player development.
However, when you are the beleaguered general manager of a team that has gone from the best record in baseball in 2011 to back-to-back 89-loss seasons and a 2015 that has the Phils on a 65-win pace, you don’t have a lot of wiggle room for poorly worded comments.
And the following quote was pretty poorly conceived.
Advertisement
“They don’t understand the game,” Amaro said Tuesday, referring to those insisting Nola and Eflin are ready. “They don’t understand the process. There’s a process. And then they bitch and complain because we don’t have a plan. There’s a plan in place and we’re sticking with the plan. We can’t do what’s best for the fan. We have to do what’s best for the organization so the fan can reap the benefit of it later on. That’s the truth.”
Amaro quickly took the mea culpa route Tuesday at Citi Field.
“Obviously it’s caused a bit of a firestorm in Philly,” Amaro said. “The first thing I wanted to say about the comments I made is (that) I’d like to apologize to the fans. I’m a fan myself. I understand the passion and the knowledge that our fans have for our game and the other major sports, all the other sports in Philly. The comments weren’t meant to disparage our fans by any stretch of the imagination. I probably used my words incorrectly or poorly. I want to apologize for that.
“I would never intentionally disparage our fans — that’s not how I go about my business, that’s not what I feel is in the best interest of the organization. We’re fan-driven. This is an entertainment business, and we need the support of our fans, and we’ve gotten tremendous support. I apologize for the context or the words that I used.”
Amaro did have a chat with Phillies president Pat Gillick, who could have the biggest say in Amaro’s future when his contract ends at the end of 2015. Although there isn’t much Amaro could do to change the minds of fans who want the organization to move on from his tenure as GM, it doesn’t help to throw gasoline on the fire.
“The biggest thing that bothers me about it is how the organization is perceived — not me personally,” Amaro said. “We’ve always been one of those organizations, at least as long as I’ve been in the front office, to understand the fan and understand that the fans are the people who pay our salaries and support us.
“Am I worried about it for me? No. I’m worried about it for the organization, because they shouldn’t have to suffer because I made a bad quote.”
Amaro’s wording also took the focus off what he considers a mutual desire that he and fans share: Excitement about Nola, Eflin and other prospects the Phillies are developing. The Phillies have their best crop of young starting pitchers in the minors since Brett Myers, Gavin Floyd and Cole Hamels were making their way through the system. This follows years of trading away prospects for short-term gain, and not doing a very good job of drafting and signing amateur talent.
Nola, the Phils’ top pick out of LSU last June, is 6-3 with a 1.87 ERA in nine starts. Eflin, the youngest player in the Eastern League at the start of the season, is 4-3 with a 2.28 ERA in eight starts. Nola did throw about 170 innings last year, but that included an extended break in June between the end of his collegiate season and his first start as a pro. Eflin worked 128 innings over 24 starts last season for San Diego’s high-Class A team.
“When you get right down to it, Nola has only had 21 professional appearances,” Amaro said. “He had 170 innings last year. We have to build these guys in a way that prepares them to be major leaguers. There’s a process. We have a plan in place for those guys. And, yes, there is danger, because when they get to the major leagues the stress those pitchers go through … to get outs and compete at the major-league level is a different stress than it is in the minor leagues.
“Nola used to pitch at LSU once a week and he never pitched the summertime. When we first drafted him he wasn’t on a five-day rotation. We had to gradually work him into from seven days, to six days, to five days so he could get used to that routine … I think he’s handled it well so far this year. And I think he’ll continue to handle it well.”

