Daily News An engraving of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.(Photo: Getty Photos/iStockphoto)There is a nearby angle to every thing, and that blanket statement covers the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.There are several minor characters connected to that national...
Phil Reisman: The Rye man who could have stopped John Wilkes Booth
An engraving of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.(Photo: Getty Photos/iStockphoto)There is a nearby angle to every thing, and that blanket statement covers the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.There are several minor characters connected to that national...
An engraving of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.(Photo: Getty Photos/iStockphoto)
There is a nearby angle to every thing, and that blanket statement covers the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.
There are several minor characters connected to that national tragedy. Right after all, it occurred during a play at Ford's Theatre, which had a packed house. There were hundreds of shocked and frightened witnesses in the audience, most of them just ordinary individuals. Envision if Twitter existed then: "OMG! #HonestAbe has been shot! @USATODAY."
One of the witnesses was a man named Billy Withers, the theater's orchestra leader who apparently could never stop talking about what he saw and heard on the evening of April 14, 1865. Withers had a tendency to be a small loose with the facts — either for the reason that of memory lapses or outright self-aggrandizement. Nevertheless, ideal up to his death in 1916, Withers was more than willing to be interviewed by newspaper reporters assigned to write milestone anniversary stories on the assassination.
Ford’s Theatre orchestra leader Billy Withers in later years. He is buried in Rye. (Photo: Submitted)
He is buried in Greenwood Union Cemetery in Rye.
As we draw near to the 150th anniversary of Lincoln's murder, Withers will serve as my neighborhood angle.
Withers knew John Wilkes Booth. In the entertainment planet of the mid-19th century, every person knew Booth.
Before the curtain went up for the evening's performance of "Our American Cousin," Withers said he encountered Booth at a saloon next door to the theater.
"Hello Billy," Booth called out. "Come over and have a drink with me."
Withers recalled that somebody joked that Booth, who came from a renowned thespian loved ones, would in no way be as great an actor as his father. An "inscrutable smile" crossed Booth's face, Withers told an Linked Press reporter in 1912.
Then Booth supposedly stated, "When I leave the stage for superior I will be the most popular man in America!"
Whether or not Booth definitely said that is anybody's guess. It sounds like Withers produced it up, but then, as I pointed out ahead of, he did that from time to time.
In any event, it is undeniably correct that not long soon after the content-hour drink, Booth was indeed popular.
Throughout the play, Withers stood off stage.
When Withers heard the gunshot that killed Lincoln, he was puzzled, for the reason that the play was a comedy and did not contact for gunplay. Prior to Withers could react, Booth was in the orchestra leader's face, trying to make his escape.
"If I live a thousand years, I shall by no means overlook that 10 seconds of my life that was spent among Booth and his liberty," Withers said. "His eyes seemed beginning from their sockets. In his left hand was a extended dagger, even though with his ideal he seemed to be balancing himself against the brick wall."
Withers said Booth "stared at me like a wild beast." Soon after telling Withers to get out of his way a couple of occasions, Booth knifed him in the neck and pushed him to the floor.
Booth, who had broken his leg in a dramatic leap from the balcony, pulled open the rear stage door that led to an alley exactly where a saddled horse was waiting for him.
Withers had his harrowing brush with history — and he dined out on the story for 50 years. He is mostly remembered these days by Lincoln conspiracy buffs.
Thomas A. Bogar, the author of "Backstage at the Lincoln Assassination," noted that out of respect the actors and stagehands at Ford's Theatre would not grant interviews whilst Booth's brother, the wonderful tragedian, Edwin Booth, was nevertheless alive. Bogar calls this the "wait-until-Edwin-Booth-dies orthodoxy," an unwritten rule that Withers violated just about a decade just before Edwin's death in 1893.
In 1907 Withers suffered a stroke, which left him partly paralyzed. Sooner or later he made his way to the Rye home of his sister, Louise Withers Beck.
1 magazine story about him begins: "Seated before a crackling log fire is a sturdy small bungalow at Rye Beach, overlooking Long Island Sound, an old man told me of his regret that he does not hold a higher location in history."
The musician was described as possessing a "feeling of regret" ever since the night of the assassination — though what he regretted precisely is in no way explained.
On a recent day, I looked for Withers' grave at the cemetery in Rye. I was told at the workplace that he has no marker, but was assured that his remains were interred in the Beck household plot, which takes place to be a stone's throw away from the African-American cemetery and where, by accident, I found the grave of a Civil War veteran.
Samuel Eshmond Ball, a farmhand, was born in 1836, the same year as Withers. He fought with the famous 54th Massachusetts Infantry, the all-black regiment that was celebrated in the film "Glory."
Walking by way of the quiet graveyard, I wondered where Samuel was that fateful night and what he thought when he heard the poor news about Lincoln.
E mail: preisman@lohud.com Twitter: @philreisman
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
11 April 2015 Saturday 15:17

