LATEST IN LIFESTYLE
by:
US President Barack Obama poses with the First Lady Michelle Obama and their daughters, Sasha and Malia, in the Oval Office in 2011. Photo: Pete Souza. Source: Supplied
MICHELLE Obama isn’t about to let her kids get special treatment just because they live in the White House.
Obama’s daughters Malia, 16, and Sasha, 13, were named on Time Magazine’s 25 Most Influential Teenagers of 2014 list.
“[Malia] has emerged as a figure of national interest,” cooed the article, which also declared , “Sasha, meanwhile, has become an icon in her own right.”
But in an interview on American talk show Live! With Kelly and Michael , the First Lady joked that her daughters weren’t worthy of the award.
“They’re not influential. They just live here [points to the White House],” she said. “They have done nothing to gain any influence.
“I don’t think they realise that they’re influential. I don’t think anybody showed them that article. So don’t mention it!” she laughed.
The First Lady is known for her classic style and killer arm muscles. Photo: Julio Cortez. Source: AP
Michelle said her daughters are “pretty self motivated” and stick to the rules laid down by their parents. Malia is even learning to drive.
“We’ve always had rules. No screen time during the week, no phones. Now that Malia is older she is pretty much independent because I want her to be prepared for college when I’m not there.
“But they get their stuff done. They handle their business.”
But even the leader of the free world isn’t immune from his teenage daughters’ sarcastic jibes.
“When they get a little snarky, I’m like, ‘Oh, you sound like your dad!’” the First Lady said.
Apart from being a super cool parent, Michelle Obama has been killing it lately.
To celebrate the fifth anniversary of her Let’s Move! campaign, a domestic initiative to combat childhood obesity, Michelle has been busting out her killer dance moves.
She nailed a dance off with Jimmy Fallon on The Tonight Show last week. The duo rehashed their best daggy dance moves in ‘The Evolution of Mum Dancing, Part 2’.
And at the annual White House Easter Egg Roll on Monday, she got down to Mark Ronson’s Uptown Funk with the US So You Think You Can Dance All Stars.
15
17
28
This is also known as Online Behavioural Advertising.

