Jeb Bush Marked Himself as 'Hispanic' on 2009 Voting Form
Jeb Bush, a former Florida governor and likely presidential candidate, during an event on March 13. (Ian Thomas Jansen-Lonnquist/The New York Times)
Washington:  There is little doubt that Jeb Bush possesses strong credentials for appealing to Hispanic voters.
He speaks fluent Spanish. His wife, Columba, was born in Mexico. For two years in his 20s, he lived in Venezuela, immersing himself in the country's culture. He was born in Texas and is a former governor of Florida, two states with large Hispanic populations.
But on one occasion, it appears, Bush may have become a bit carried away: He listed himself as Hispanic on a 2009 voter-registration application in Miami-Dade County.
A Bush spokeswoman said she had no explanation. But Bush went on Twitter on Monday to say: "My mistake! Don't think I've fooled anyone!"
Carolina Lopez, deputy supervisor of elections for Miami-Dade, said voters must submit hard copies of applications with a signature before receiving a voter information card that confirms their address and polling location.
According to the Florida Division of Elections, the application requires a signature because the voter is swearing or affirming an oath.
The New York Times obtained Bush's application from the Miami-Dade County Elections Department. Florida law requires that the signature, driver's license number and Social Security number be redacted before such a document is publicly released.
Bush, whose father and brother were president, is from a family that has been found to have strong ties to British and other European royalty.
While Bush, a likely Republican presidential candidate, may have made a mistake, confusion over heritage is no laughing matter during a campaign season.
During her Senate campaign in 2012, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts was accused of misrepresenting herself as Native American. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, who has officially announced his presidential campaign, has had to explain that he is eligible to run, despite being born in Canada, because his mother is a US citizen.
Democrats were quick to criticize Bush for the error.
Albert Morales, the Democratic National Committee's Hispanic outreach director, said that Bush was "out of step" with Latinos, and the Florida Democratic Party suggested that he might have committed a felony.
Legal experts said that without evidence that Bush had intended to deceive, he was unlikely to face legal repercussions.
Â© 2015, The New York Times News Service
Related
Quick Links

