McDavid, Century & Cantonment
April 10, 2015
The House approved a $690 million tax-cut package Thursday that, in  part, would slash taxes on cell-phone and cable-television bills,  eliminate sales taxes on college textbooks and provide tax holidays on  school supplies and hunting gear.
What the package will look  like when the legislative session ends remains unknown, as the Senate  has taken a slower approach to tax cuts and is in a budget standoff with  the House about health care funding. The House voted 112-3 to approve  the package, which is highlighted by Gov. Rick Scott’s call for a 3.6  percentage-point reduction in taxes on cell-phone and pay-TV bills,  comprising about $470 million of the package.
“Here’s the questions we  have to answer: Do we want people to pay more every month on their cell  phone bill and their television bill?” asked House Finance & Tax  Chairman Matt Gaetz, a Fort Walton Beach Republican who sponsored the  bill. “And these aren’t just rich folks, they’re not just folks who live  on the water, these are working-class people.”
A number of Democrats  said that while the package has good points, they would like to have  seen some of the money used for purposes such as helping needy  Floridians and boosting school funding. Rep. Kristin Jacobs, D-Coconut  Creek, who along with Democrats Mark Pafford of West Palm Beach and Joe  Geller of Aventura voted against the bill, said the reduction in revenue  will force local governments to raise taxes or cut back on services.  The bill includes a variety of tax breaks and would offer a sales-tax  holiday on July 4 for weapons, ammunition, fishing gear and camping  tents. Also, it would provide a tax holiday for three days starting July  31 on clothes and back-to-school supplies and a tax holiday two days  after Thanksgiving at small businesses.
Comments
Website (enter your own site, if any; not northescambia.com)
Your Comments:
Have a comment on this story?
We welcome your comments on this story, but there are some rules to follow::
(1) Be Nice. No comments that slander another, no racism, no sexism, no personal attacks.
(2) No Harrassing Comments. If someone says something bad about you, don't respond. That's childish.
(3) No Libel. That's saying something is not true about someone. Don't do it.
(4) Keep it clean. Nothing vulgar, obscene or sexually related. No profanity or obvious substitutions. Period.
(5) NorthEscambia.com reserves the right to remove any comments that violate our rules or we think to be inappropriate. We are not responsible for what is posted. Comments may not appear right away until they are approved by a moderator.
(6) Limit your comments to the subject in this story only, and limit comments to 300 words or less. Do not post copyrighted material. Comments will not be added to stories that are over 30 days old.
(7) No posts may advertise a commercial business or political group, or link to another commercial web site or political site of any kind.
 

