Haberkip FARGO, N.D. — A worker-owner of a Fargo coffee shop who instituted a tongue-in-cheek ban on North Dakota lawmakers for opposing an anti-discrimination bill says the response has been &quot99.9 % good" and that he made his point, even if a handful...
Coffee shop explains 'ban' of N.D. lawmakers who opposed gay rights bill
FARGO, N.D. — A worker-owner of a Fargo coffee shop who instituted a tongue-in-cheek ban on North Dakota lawmakers for opposing an anti-discrimination bill says the response has been &quot99.9 % good" and that he made his point, even if a handful...
FARGO, N.D. — A worker-owner of a Fargo coffee shop who instituted a tongue-in-cheek ban on North Dakota lawmakers for opposing an anti-discrimination bill says the response has been &quot99.9 % good" and that he made his point, even if a handful of men and women did not like it.
Joe Curry, 1 of the worker-owners of the Red Raven Espresso Parlor, posted a newspaper web page in the shop earlier this month that showed the 55 Republican state Property members who rejected a bill that would have prohibited discrimination primarily based on sexual orientation in housing, government, public services and the workplace. It was accompanied by a sign saying the legislators had been banned, &quotUnless accompanied by a lesbian, gay, bisexual or transsexual, queer, intersex or asexual individual."
The stunt got a lot of focus, with Republican-led legislatures in Indiana and Arkansas obtaining just rolled back their new religious objections laws beneath stress from critics who deemed the laws invitations to discriminate against the LGBT community. Curry mentioned he wanted to use humor to make a serious point and to show support for his prospects, whom he describes as largely &quotlefties" in a conservative state.
&quotThe ban was, I thought, incredibly tongue in cheek, requiring them to be escorted by an individual from the LBGT community," Curry stated Wednesday. &quotI hope that they thought about it, at least, and I hope some of them giggled. But in the finish, they are all welcome right here."
Not everybody giggled.
State Rep. Josh Boschee, a Red Raven frequent and the state's only openly gay lawmaker, said he didn't like the tactic.
&quotI comprehend what they are trying to make a point but I would have accomplished it differently," the Fargo Democrat said.
Republican state Rep. Jim Kasper, a nearby who voted against the legislation, stated he's never been in the coffee shop since he doesn't get downtown a great deal. He also took the ban seriously and went as far as to support the premise.
&quotThey have the perfect correct to refuse anybody they want," Kasper mentioned.
The ban got focus on cable news shows. MSNBC's Melissa Harris-Perry described it as her &quotfavorite issue that happened this week" and wondered aloud if Fargo was a &quotcenter of LBGT rights."
Curry stated the coffee shop received an outpouring of appreciate on social media. One particular of his clients baked him a cake and a further made him a patch with the message, &quotSolidarity forever." The 3 Democratic state lawmakers who represent the Red Raven's district sent him a gift basket.
The couple of critics that came forward had been vocal, Curry stated.
&quotIt was just a handful, but some of them have been speaking about militant gay agenda, which I hadn't heard of," he stated. &quotA handful of phone calls telling us that we had been hypocrites and applying some language that was slightly hurtful, but absolutely nothing that will affect us extended term."
The Red Raven caters to a younger crowd that consists of high school and college students and young professors in an location that has three four-year universities. It has an art gallery and a stage for poets, musicians and comedians. It is a single of the few establishments in town that holds all-ages shows.
Albert Whitcomb, a 69-year-old normal who describes himself as a &quotgenuine hippy and activist," joked with Curry in the course of a recent visit that he stopped in to get Curry's autograph for the &quotawesome adventure" over the anti-discrimination bill.
&quotIt will cost you," Curry joked.
Curry took down the sign and pictures a handful of days ago, but he hasn't ruled out posting them once again. He believes the display served its goal.
&quotI think the statement was created and I consider it a chord with a lot of people today," Curry said. &quotI feel it encapsulated a lot of the anger and disgust with all the men and women who shared it. It did its job. It opened the doors to a lot of discussion and I assume a lot of that discussion, at least what I was hearing, was constructive."
read full write-up
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

