Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Obamas attend Easter services
President Obama and his family attended Easter church services Sunday at the Alfred Street Baptist Church in nearby Alexandria, Va. We arrived at Alfred Street Baptist Church in Alexandria at 10:25 after an
Post to Facebook
Obamas attend Easter services President Obama and his family attended Easter church services Sunday at the Alfred Street Baptist Church in nearby Alexandria, Va. We arrived at Alfred Street Baptist Church in Alexandria at 10:25 after an Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1C6iRce
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
8
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Obamas attend Easter services
President Obama
President Obama and his family attended Easter church services Sunday at the Alfred Street Baptist Church in nearby Alexandria, Va.
"How fitting that on the day we celebrate the rising of our Lord and savior, we also welcome our sitting president," said pastor  Howard-John Wesley in welcoming the president, first lady Michelle Obama, and their two daughters to the predominantly African-American church.
Wesley encouraged the crowd to stay in their seats.
"This is not selfie time," he said. "Let the brother worship in the house of God."
During his sermon, Wesley talked about the choices that people face, both big and small.
"Even today in our political landscape, a line in the sand is drawn forcing you to make a decision on where you stand," he said. "Where do you stand with rights or same sex couples ... where do you stand on gun reform, where do you stand with police body cameras? Where do you stand on affordable health care? Life has a way of making you make a decision."
Wesley also reference whether people stand "on the resurrection of Jesus Christ: You either believe it or you reject it."
He added: "Christ is risen from the dead! If there's anything that will put an amen in your voice; if there's anything that will put some clapping in your hands ... it's that Christ has risen from the dead!"
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1C6iRce
USA NOW
Apr 05, 2015

