Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
WASHINGTON — Is it friendship or corruption? Sen. Robert Menendez and prosecutors have dramatically different views of the New Jersey Democrat's relationship with wealthy donor Salomon Melgen.
Post to Facebook
Menendez case highlights precise nature of friendship WASHINGTON — Is it friendship or corruption? Sen. Robert Menendez and prosecutors have dramatically different views of the New Jersey Democrat's relationship with wealthy donor Salomon Melgen. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1D1QjWk
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Menendez case highlights precise nature of friendship
Nicole Gaudiano , USA TODAY 7:12 p.m. EDT April 3, 2015
U.S. Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) listens as his attorney, Abbe Lowell, speaks on April 2, 2015, outside federal court in Newark, N.J., about Menendez's indictment on corruption charges.
(Photo: Kena Betancur, Getty Images)
6 CONNECT 31 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
WASHINGTON — Is it friendship or corruption?
Sen. Robert Menendez and prosecutors have dramatically different views of the New Jersey Democrat's relationship with wealthy donor Salomon Melgen, a Florida ophthalmologist.
A grand jury indictment in the bribery case against the two men says Menendez used his office to benefit Melgen's business interests in exchange for nearly $1 million in gifts and campaign contributions.
But statements from Menendez and his lawyer suggest they'll advance a "bromance" argument. Menendez likely will argue that he and Melgen never intended a quid-pro-quo exchanging of political power for money and gifts, but merely acted as good friends do, helping each other out when the need arose.
Both men have pleaded not guilty in the case.
"I'm angry because prosecutors at the Justice Department don't know the difference between friendship and corruption and have chosen to twist my duties as a senator —and as a friend — into something improper," Menendez said Wednesday. "They're dead wrong, and I'm confident they will be proven so."
Menendez appears to be using the "friendship defense" to show there's no nexus between Melgen's gifts and his own official acts, said Elliot Berke, a lawyer whose clients include state and federal officials.
"In other words ... the gifts were given because they were friends," he said in an email. "Official acts were taken, but there was no relationship between the two."
Friendship isn't a legal defense to bribery charges, experts say. But it could be used to undermine the prosecution's claim of intent, which will be the focus of the trial, said Scott Coffina, a former assistant U.S. attorney and former associate counsel to George W. Bush when Bush was president.
Coffina said he expects Menendez to paint a broader picture for jurors of a friendship that wasn't opportunistic or businesslike.
"You can be friends and still get convicted, but ... if (prosecutors) can't prove the intent to influence an official act by Sen. Menendez, the government loses," Coffina said of the bribery charges.
Jan Baran, a Washington lawyer and ethics specialist, said one key question will be, "What else did Sen. Menendez do for his friend that wasn't the official act of a senator? The burden of proof is on the government."
In addition to other charges, Menendez and Melgen, both 61, each face eight counts of bribery. Prosecutors allege that, between 2006 and 2013, Menendez aided Melgen in a dispute with the government over Medicare billing, blocked potential threats to Melgen's cargo-screening contract with the Dominican Republic, and pressed for approval of visa applications for three of Melgen's girlfriends.
In return, they say, Menendez accepted numerous flights on Melgen's private jet, vacations at his villa in the Dominican Republic and Paris and $40,000 in contributions to a legal defense fund. Melgen also made more than $750,000 in donations benefiting Menendez's campaign.
Last month, Menendez said his family and Melgen's family have been "real friends" for more than 20 years, celebrating holidays together and giving each other gifts "just as friends do."
Menendez's attorney, Abbe Lowell, used similar language following Menendez's initial court appearance Thursday, saying in a statement Menendez and Melgen were involved in a "real friendship," not a corrupt relationship.
The critical challenge facing Menendez and Melgen will be to prove that their friendship was unrelated to Menendez's position of power, said Ron Hosko, who retired last year as assistant director of the FBI.
He said prosecutors clearly have "solid evidence" to back up the charges.
"I had anticipated that the case would have been charged much sooner ... because of the strength of the evidence," he said.
To prove intent, Hosko said, prosecutors likely will try to show that Menendez's actions on behalf of Melgen closely coincided with discussions between the two — or their aides — about money or other gifts from Melgen to Menendez.
"To me, close in time would be days or weeks, not months," Hosko said.
Coffina said, "The closer the government ties them together, the stronger the inference of intent."
Similar issues were raised recently in connection with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's acceptance of expensive gifts and free travel from King Abdullah of Jordan and Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones.
Christie said state law allows him to accept gifts from relatives or friends. But the American Legal Defense Fund filed a complaint in January with the state Ethics Commission, suggesting a possible connection between a trip Christie took to Texas at Jones' expense and the governor's push two years earlier to award a lucrative port contract to a company Jones is invested in. Christie has denied a connection between the two.
Menendez's defense team may try to limit the evidence prosecutors use at trial by citing the Speech or Debate clause in the Constitution, which protects members of Congress from prosecution for legislative activities, such as voting, speaking on the floor, introducing legislation or participating in committee hearings, said Michael Stern, who specializes in legal issues affecting Congress.
As the case against Menendez developed, members of his legal team argued in court that prosecutors should be barred from showing grand jurors certain evidence relating to Menendez's communications with federal agencies. They cited the Speech and Debate clause, saying the communications had a legislative purpose.
Stern said in an email it's "highly unlikely" a court will rule with Menendez on the issue, "but if it did, that could greatly complicate the prosecution's ability to present its case."
6 CONNECT 31 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1D1QjWk
USA NOW
See sailor missing for 66 days rescued by Coast Guard
Apr 03, 2015

