Baton Rouge
Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
Influential conservative group denies it is a climate change denier
Barack Obama,
President Barack Obama reads as he walks back to the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, Tuesday, April 7, 2015, before traveling to Howard University to discuss climate change. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais)
The "cease and desist" letters were issued by lawyers representing the American Legislative Exchange Council  (ALEC), a business backed group that advocates conservative legislation to members that include state legislators from across the country, including in Louisiana.
One model ALEC bill would require state agencies to get state legislature approval for any plan to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from existing fossil fueled power plants. Carbon emissions have been linked to climate change.
The letters, first reported by The Washington Post, suggest that ALEC is concerned about some high profile corporate defections, including Facebook, Google, Northrop Grumman, Yahoo and eBay. BP announced last month that it is not renewing its membership in ALEC.
Google Chairman Eric Schultz cited concerns about ALEC's position on global warming as a reason for his firm's decision to drop out of the conservative advocacy group.
In the letter to Common Cause, dated March 5, ALEC lawyers Alan Dye and Heidi Abegg complained that the liberal advocacy group "has made numerous statements alleging or implying that ALEC denies climate change and have used such statements to urge companies to withdraw membership from ALEC."
"ALEC's position is clear. ALEC does not deny climate change," the two ALEC attorneys wrote.
Responding for Common Cause, attorney Vinita Ferrera responded that ALEC's model policy acknowledges that human activity "may lead to demonstrable changes in climate," but also suggests "a great deal of scientific uncertainty surrounds the nature of these prospective changes."
Wrote Ferrera: "The characterization of an individual or entity as one that denies climate change is well understood to refer not only to those who deny outright that the earth's climate is changing, but more broadly to individuals or organizations who, while admitting that changes in the earth's atmosphere are occurring as a result of human activity, question or cast doubt on the scientific evidence regarding climate change or its impact. ALEC easily fits within that common understanding of the term."
Source-Watch, based on information obtained from attendance lists at ALEC conferences in 2011 and 2012, reported that the group had 34 Louisiana state legislators among its membership during those years.
ALEC drafts model legislation and has had success in getting some of its bills passed into law in various states -- with few, or no changes.
In a speech Tuesday at Howard University, President Barack Obama  said there's an undeniable link between climate change and public health.
"You can't cordon yourself off from air or from climate," Obama said.
You can look at ALEC's list of model legislation here .
Breaking News/Live events
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for signing up!
Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you dont' see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Video          of the Day
© 2015 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

