Sections
Email
Print
Flores' game-tying sacrifice fly 0:52
5/26/15: Wilmer Flores hits a sacrifice fly to center off Ken Giles, scoring Lucas Duda to tie the game at 4 in the bottom of the 8th inning
By Todd Zolecki / MLB.com | @ToddZolecki |
+
NEW YORK -- Walks continue to haunt the Phillies' bullpen.
The Phillies scored four runs in the top of the eighth inning to take a one-run lead in Tuesday's 5-4 loss to the Mets in 10 innings at Citi Field. But a leadoff walk in the bottom of the eighth inning led to the tying run and a single and a walk to start the 10th allowed the Mets to win the game.
The Phillies' bullpen leads Major League Baseball with 74 walks.
The Phillies have lost five of their last six games. They need to win Wednesday's series finale to avoid a sweep.
"Walks came into play," Phillies manager Ryne Sandberg said.
Phillies setup man Ken Giles walked Lucas Duda on seven pitches to start the eighth inning. Daniel Murphy followed with a double into the right-field corner to put runners on second and third with no outs.
Duda scored the tying run on Wilmer Flores ' sacrifice fly to center field.
"Yeah, he was out of the zone right from the get-go," Sandberg said about Giles. "Looked like he was really struggling to get the ball down and actually throw strikes down in the zone. He was falling behind and it was a little bit of a struggle for him."
Jeanmar Gomez pitched the ninth and started the 10th, when he served up a single to Juan Lagares . Sandberg called for left-hander Elvis Araujo to face Duda. Entering the season, this would have been a spot for left-hander Jake Diekman , but Sandberg said they had Diekman slated as their long man if the game were to go deep into extra innings. Diekman has a 7.56 ERA in 20 appearances.
Araujo walked Duda to put runners on first and second with no outs.
Araujo got Murphy to hit into a double play, but he walked Michael Cuddyer to put runners at the corners. Flores followed with a single to left-center to win it. Sandberg said they did not consider intentionally walking Flores to face the light-hitting Eric Campbell because he wanted to give Araujo some wiggle room.
In other words, Araujo already walked two batters on his own. Loading the bases in that situation might have been an issue.
Sandberg also said he gave no consideration to using closer Jonathan Papelbon in either inning. Typically, most managers do not use their closer in a tie game on the road.
"You've got to have a closer if you get the lead somewhere," Sandberg said. "Then you get burned the other way."
Todd Zolecki is a reporter for MLB.com. Read his Phillies blog The Zo Zone , follow him on Twitter and listen to his podcast . This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

