close
DESTIN, Fla. | The Southeastern Conference is considering discipline decisions to be made by the league commissioner instead of each individual school.
“It’s a topic of conversation without a predicted outcome,” incoming SEC commissioner Greg Sankey said. “We’ll wait to see how that conversation concludes.”
Outgoing SEC commissioner Mike Slive didn’t sound like he was supportive of the idea.
He said the “appropriate place” for behavior issues is “on their campus. He noted NFL commissioner Roger Goodell has had issues making discipline decisions
“The judicial bodies of institutions are designed to deal with student-athlete behavior,” Slive said. “Is there some reason why we should substitute our judgment for an institution that fully understands its students, understands it environment. …We’re not experts. Deans and vice presidents and those folks are experts.”
Georgia already is pushing a proposal this week that would ban the transfer of players dismissed from a school for serious misconduct for things like sexual assault and domestic violence for transferring to an SEC school.
“I support that,” coach Mark Richt said. “I think that’s wise.”
Richt says he’s never told a player that was in his program that wanted to go elsewhere that he couldn’t go to a certain school.
Such a rule would have barred defensive lineman Jonathan Taylor from transferring to Alabama six months after he was dismissed by Georgia on a domestic violence charge. Taylor is no longer with the Alabama program after another domestic violence incident.
“I think we all want to protect our league and protect our campuses,” Richt said. “In the past it’s been a university decision. If this proposal comes through it won’t be. It will be very much along the lines of the graduate transfer rule.”
Alabama coach Nick Saban said restricting transfers if a player is disciplined at another will make the SEC “a farm system for all the other leagues.” He opposes the Georgia proposed rule.
Go to the previous story
CONTACT US
Ask a Billing Question

