ago
NEW YORK (AP) — The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation is giving 20 jails of all sizes $150,000 each to come up with ways to redu…
ago
NEW YORK (AP) — The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation is giving 20 jails of all sizes $150,000 each to come up with ways to redu…
By Kody Fisher Published:
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo–A new study shows some newborns may be at greater risk of sudden infant death syndrome, or SIDS.
Babies born above eight thousand feet are twice as likely to have SIDS, compared to those born below six thousand feet.
That’s from a study published in the journal Pediatrics.
SIDS is the leading cause of death for babies under a year old in America.
Woodland Park, Cripple Creek, and Divide are some of the areas above eight thousand feet in our area.
The study shows .8/1000 babies die from SIDS, compared to .4/1000 for those under six thousand feet.
SIDS is where a baby stops breathing and dies.
It typically happens when babies are sleeping.
One parent said it’s a scary thought.
“I have absolutely no idea of how to explain that,” said Crystal Evans, “there’s no words to describe it.”
Crystal has one child with one on the way.
“Its kind of shocking, cause it’s not something you usually think about,” said Evans.
One doctor said this new study isn’t a death sentence for babies above eight thousand feet.
“If they do the things that we know modify the risk of SIDS is still significantly below the risk even at low altitude of sudden infant death syndrome twenty five years ago before we knew about sleeping babies on their back,” said Pediatrics Medical Group Dr. Mary Laird.
Crystal doesn’t live about eight thousand feet, but that won’t stop her from being more vigilant with her new born.
“Watch it better. I don’t know, I went into his room (her first child) multiple times throughout the night, guarantee you I’m going to be doing that a lot more just to check him,” said Evans.
There are some easy ways to cut down on the risk of SIDS.
“With the interventions of sleeping babies on their backs, breast feeding is another thing, sleeping them in their own bed and on a firm mattress,” said Dr. Laird.
She also said not smoking during, or after pregnancy, and keeping your newborn up to date on immunizations are also ways to cut down on the risks of SIDS no matter what altitude you live at.
Share this:
Follow @KodyFisherFOX21 on Twitter
9:18 pm
A new study shows some newborns may be at greater risk of sudden infant death syndrome, or SIDS.
May 25, 2015
One man used the power of art to honor military members on this Memorial Day and he’s doing it in a big way.
May 22, 2015
The Denver Comic Con kicks off this Saturday and there are a lot of people preparing for the fun filled weekend.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
FOX21News.com
© Copyright 2015 KXRM-TV, a subsidiary of LIN Television Corp. All rights reserved.
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

