Search
Lincoln Chafee, the former Rhode Island governor.Credit Joe Giblin/Associated Press
Hillary Rodham Clinton has faced little dissension from fellow Democrats as she moves closer to running for president, but fresh signs of restlessness are emerging.
Lincoln Chafee, the former senator and governor of Rhode Island who said he is exploring a run for the Democratic nomination on Thursday, unfurled lines of attack against Mrs. Clinton that could become increasingly common if other potential Democratic challengers, such as former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland or former Senator Jim Webb of Virginia, show a willingness to take her on.
In an interview with The New York Times, Mr. Chafee offered sharp criticism of Mrs. Clinton’s support for the war in Iraq and for accepting foreign donations to the Clinton Foundation.
“The donations to the Clinton Foundation are alarming to me,” Mr. Chafee said, arguing that decision making can be compromised when enormous amounts of money change hands.
The Clintons have defended the family foundation’s acceptance of donations from foreign governments, which was mostly suspended when Mrs. Clinton was secretary of state and resumed after she left. Last month, former President Bill Clinton said taking money from foreign countries, including those in the Middle East, was crucial to keeping the foundation’s programs running .
Mr. Chafee’s announcement came as Mrs. Clinton, who is expected to make her candidacy official any day, is starting to feel more pressures from within her party. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who has said she will not run for president in 2016, told CBS on Thursday that she would like to hear more about Mrs. Clinton’s economic plans and that a “vigorous debate” was important in deciding who would become the next president.
Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, appeared to welcome Mr. Chafee’s possible candidacy, saying she was excited to hear what he had to say.
Lincoln Chafee has done great things for Rhode Island. I'm excited to hear his thoughts for the country as he considers a bid for president.
As Barack Obama did as a senator in 2007, Mr. Chafee argued that Mrs Clinton’s support for the war in Iraq should disqualify her from the White House.
“It’s still relevant,” Mr. Chafee said. “I would argue that the next president of the United States should not have voted for that war.”
As for Mrs. Clinton’s record as secretary of state, Mr. Chafee suggested that it was more about “miles logged” than actual accomplishments. He declined to criticize her over her handling of the 2012 attack on the United States diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, or her use of private email while in office, saying that he would leave that to Republicans.
Mr. Chafee said his disagreements with Mrs. Clinton were largely about foreign policy issues rather than domestic. He said he recognized that fund-raising would be a challenge if he decided to run, but that he planned to travel to Iowa, New Hampshire and other primary states to drum up support.
“Choices are always good,” he said. “I certainly believe on some of the issues, we should have a lively debate.”
Mr. Chafee was a Republican when in the Senate from 1999 to 2007 and later served one term as governor as an independent. He became a Democrat in 2013.
About First Draft
First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com .
Politics Newsletter
We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.

