April 8, 2015
It’s no secret that Alabama is in severe financial trouble. Governor Bentley’s almost $550 million plan includes raising taxes. It’s not pop…
Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley said Wednesday that Alabama could see dramatic reductions in state services – from the closure of parks to the p…
April 8, 2015
By Michael Oder Published:
If nothing is done, the governor warns there will be consequences.
Oak Mountain State Park sees hundreds of visitors each week. If lawmakers don’t act to fix the state’s money problems, those visitors could see a locked gate and a closed state park.
On a sunny day at Oak Mountain State Park, the beach is the place to be. For Joy Anderson and her kids, this is a perfect spring break.
“It’s gorgeous weather,” laughed Anderson. This mom from Atlanta used to live near the park and remembers fun family trips.
“They love it here. They love the water. They love the atmosphere, so we just came out to have fun,” said Anderson. Even locals tell me that Oak Mountain is an affordable escape.
“This beach is awesome,” said Taylor Parsons. He said the state park is a great place to have a good time on a little amount of money.
It’s not all sunshine and happiness. In Montgomery, the state’s financial woes could threaten Oak Mountain. Governor Bentley said Wednesday the state could face severe cuts in state services if lawmakers don’t raise taxes. Alabama could see its state parks closed. It could also mean longer lines at courthouses and more cuts to mental health services.
“I think it would be a sad situation if they have to close the parks,” said Anderson. She didn’t want to taxes to be raised, since that money comes out of people’s paychecks. Anderson wants lawmakers to find another source of funding.
The governor’s proposed tax package isn’t getting traction in Montgomery. Those enjoying Oak Mountain want lawmakers to figure something out.
“To cut something like this would end a lot of people’s fun activities on the weekend during the week,” said Josh.
The governor said that he would bring lawmakers back in to session as many times as it takes for them to approve a reasonable general fund budget.
Copyright 2015 WIAT 42 News
Share this:
April 8, 2015
Weekend still looking dry with a slight chance of rain later Sunday
Interactive Radar
Latest Photos
April 8, 2015
On Wednesday, April 8th, Avery Johnson was introduced as the new coach of Men’s Basketball for the University of Alabama.
April 8, 2015
UConn women capture 10th national title with 63-53 win over Notre Dame.
April 8, 2015
A North Charleston police officer was charged with murder on Tuesday after video surfaced showing the officer shooting a Charleston man as h…
Most Popular Stories on WIAT.com
© 2000-2015 LIN Television Corporation, a Media General company. All rights reserved.
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:

