Published:Wednesday | May 27, 2015
Marilyn Hayre (left), member of Jamaica Reach to Recovery, and Rainford Wint (centre), head of Gleaner Online Sales, watch attentively as Donaver Esson, a 21-year breast cancer survivor, lights the In Honour of Luminaria candle for all cancer survivors  at the Jamaica Cancer Society’s ‘Relay For Life’ launch last Thursday.
The Jamaica Cancer Society's Relay for Life event is a life-changing experience that gives every Jamaican an opportunity to celebrate the lives of their loved ones who battled cancer and survived; an opportunity to remember loved ones who battled the disease but unfortunately passed on; an opportunity to fight back against the disease with stories of victory and hope, dancing and singing - a total celebration of life.
This year, Relay For Life takes place on Saturday, June 13 at the Police Officers' Club in St Andrew from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. on Sunday.
The Cancer Society is promising all sponsors, teams and well-wishers an evening of unforgettable entertainment.
The 12-hour event kicks off with a formal ceremony involving government officials, members of the diplomatic corps, members of corporate Jamaica, sponsors, and other specially invited guests.
This will be followed by the Survivors' Lap, in which over 300 cancer survivors will take to the track in their victory lap led by the Jamaica Regiment Band. The team entertainment will follow with memorable performances from NDTC, UWI Panoridim Steel Band Orchestra, National Youth Orchestra, the Campion College Dance Troupe, items from Hillel Academy and Holy Childhood Prep, the JN Chorale and Cancer Conscious Youth.
The Luminaria Ceremony will follow with the lighting of all the candles placed inside sand-filled bags, personalised in honour or in memory of loved ones. This lap will be ushered by a bagpipe player.
More entertainment
Commander John McFarlane will inspire with his usual amazing vocals. The Purple Party will be next with great entertainment by the 50/50 and Black Zebra bands, Dr Michael Abrahams, Phillip Supersad, and a surprised guest appearance by a Jamaican international artiste.
The morning will welcome 'socarobics' and zumba at 5:30 a.m., which rolls into the formal closing ceremony at 6 a.m.
"We are inviting as many Jamaicans as possible to visit our website at jamaicacancersociety.org to register a team and make donations online, or visit our head office at 16 Lady Musgrave Road to do so. Registration will close on Friday, June 5 at 6 p.m.," shared Yulit Gordon, executive director of the Jamaica Cancer Society.
She added, "Over the last three years, the Society has raised in excess of $30 million which has served to upgrade its clinic, expand its community outreach, and finance screening, chemotherapy and radiation services for vulnerable men and women across the island."

