By MATT CANHAM | The Salt Lake Tribune
First Published 34 minutes ago    •    Updated 1 minute ago
(Lennie Mahler  |  The Salt Lake Tribune)    A barricade of buses on 500 South blocks off a lane of traffic for cars entering the Sheraton hotel in Salt Lake City, Thursday, April 2, 2015. President Barack Obama is expected to stay at the hotel before speaking at Hill Air Force Base Friday.
(Lennie Mahler  |  The Salt Lake Tribune)    A barricade of buses on 500 South blocks off a lane of traffic for cars entering the Sheraton hotel in Salt Lake City, Thursday, April 2, 2015. President Barack Obama is expected to stay at the hotel before speaking at Hill Air Force Base Friday.
ARTICLE PHOTO GALLERY (4)
When the White House announced that President Barack Obama was headed to Utah, the speculation on where he would stay centered on either The Grand America Hotel, the most lavish in Salt Lake City, or a posh location in Park City.
Nobody guessed the Sheraton on 500 South, a nice, albeit pedestrian hotel. When the dump trucks and buses started lining up to secure the building, there was quite the social media response. Here's a sample:
@LJoyce11 wrote, "Pretty freaking cool that President Obama is here. But I have one thing that's bothering me, the Sheraton ... really?? Not the Grand??"
TOP JOBS
VIDEOS
And @RyBen3 said, "The fact Obama is staying at the Sheraton and not the Grand America is both ironic and accurate in how he is supported in the state of Utah."
True, Utah is very conservative, very Republican, but politics had nothing to do with his accommodations.
While most people might expect the president to stay in fancy rooms wherever he goes, that's not always the case. He bunked at the Holiday Inn when he visited Kansas in January .
Where the president stays often has to do with three main factors: security, location and availability.
The Grand America, built in the lead-up to the 2002 Winter Olympics, was made with events like this in mind. There would be no need to back up dump trucks to secure the building, which already has a few floors of meeting space that act as a buffer for the hotel tower. And just a couple of blocks away from the Sheraton, it'd be hard to argue that location was the deciding factor.
"One guess is the availability of rooms at the last minute," said Peter Watkins, a former White House aide from Utah who accompanied former President George W. Bush on three visits here. "The White House didn't announce this trip until Monday."
And that means, it might have been planned quickly. Also, Obama came just days before the General Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which attracts tens of thousands of visitors to Salt Lake City, likely reducing options.
When the president travels, he doesn't need just one hotel room, he requires multiple floors. The entourage includes not just aides and travel staff, but also the Secret Service and the White House Communications Agency, which essentially creates safe rooms for the commander in chief to talk securely to military leaders if the need arises. Then there are the media traveling with him.
The Sheraton had the space. One rumor is that the hotel was picked because it is staffed by members of the union. But that's not true. While the president does favor union hotels, Utah, a right-to-work state, doesn't have any.
A call to the Grand America has not yet been returned. And the White House would say only that the hotel fit the "security and logistical needs for presidential travel."
Jason Ford, general manager of the Sheraton Salt Lake City, doesn't know why the White House picked his hotel, but he doesn't think it is as weird as some Utahns seem to.
"I wasn't surprised," said Ford, who is obviously proud of the establishment now undergoing a renovation. "For us, it was truly an honor."
The hotel has a presidential suite, but he wouldn't say whether the president stayed there, because that would violate the privacy of a guest. Ford would say that the hotel staff received "pretty last minute" notice and they didn't go to any great lengths to spruce up the rooms used. The White House did, in fact, book multiple floors of the nine-story hotel, with the press located on the fifth. Rooms at the Sheraton go from $150 to $295, though the White House entourage likely got a government rate.
Other guests had to go through a series of security checkpoints to get into the hotel and at times had to take the stairs. The Secret Service controlled the elevators during the president's meetings with LDS Church leaders and local elected leaders.
 
 
POPULAR NEWS

