Rick Perry continues SC tour as other GOP hopeful makes announce - Live5News.com | Charleston, SC | News, Weather, Sports
Posted:
Updated:
COLUMBIA, SC (WIS) -
Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry continues his trip through South Carolina on Tuesday, making two stops in Columbia to speak with students and local businesses.
Perry has hinted at his presidential run in each speech he's given this week, laying out his ideas for national security and job creation, but each time it seems like he's going to say he's in it to win it, he pulls back.
Perry's memories of his 2012 presidential run aren't exactly fond ones.
"I wasn't healthy. I wasn't prepared, from the standpoint of being able to deal with the issues whether foreign policy, monetary policy or domestic policy," Perry said.
The former Texas governor actually stopped campaigning two days before the South Carolina's primary after losing Iowa and New Hampshire and slipping up in a debate by forgetting the name of a government agency he wanted to cut.
Colleen Forsythe remembered that Perry as she watched him at Columbia International University on Tuesday.
"He's a different candidate, and I'm very impressed with how he's come along," Forsythe said. "He has my attention. I never thought I would have said that. An hour ago, I wouldn't have said that."
Perry delivered two very different speeches in South Carolina this week. Monday at the Citadel speaking almost exclusively on foreign policy; his faith at CIU.
But repeated some points from both speeches at a roundtable Tuesday afternoon.
"We're only a few good decisions and a leadership change away from this country being substantially more economically powerful," Perry said. "We're only a few good decisions and a leadership change at the top away from that becoming a reality."
Perry still has not said if he will make another White House run, even as two other GOP candidates, Ted Cruz and Rand Paul, are officially in the race. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio is expected to announce his candidacy Monday.
We asked Perry when we would know if he's in or out. He said when he has the experience he knows he didn't have in 2012, he'll announce.
"The decision will be made fully confident that I'll be able to stand on that stage and talk about a host of different issues," Perry said.
Perry wrapped up his South Carolina tour. He said this time Wednesday, he'll be in Iowa.
Copyright 2015 WIS. All rights reserved.
Tuesday, April 7 2015 4:51 PM EDT2015-04-07 20:51:13 GMT
North Charleston Police are planning a 5 p.m. press conference to discuss the fatal officer-involved shooting of a 50-year-old man in North Charleston over the weekend.  More >>
North Charleston Police are planning a 5 p.m. press conference to discuss the fatal officer-involved shooting of a 50-year-old man in North Charleston over the weekend.  More >>
Updated:
Dr. William Small (Source: SC State University)
The change in the guard continued at South Carolina State University early Tuesday as the chairman of the school's board of trustees announced he has decided to resign. More >>
The change in the guard continued at South Carolina State University early Tuesday as the chairman of the school's board of trustees announced he has decided to resign. More >>
breaking
(Source: AP Stock Graphic)
Officials with the Charleston County Sheriff's Office say they have arrested a man who jumped into the Ashley River following a vehicular pursuit Tuesday afternoon. 
Tuesday, April 7 2015 7:47 AM EDT2015-04-07 11:47:59 GMT
The Town of Summerville's Board of Architectural Review gave final approval to a proposed boutique hotel in downtown Summerville.
Tuesday, April 7 2015 1:12 AM EDT2015-04-07 05:12:02 GMT
This is an X26 model Taser.  North Charleston police officers are issued the same model.
   

