We feel pain when we get injured or hurt. So, is pain good or bad? Feeling of pain is a warning system to the body that cautions the body to withdraw from actions that hurt the body and dangerous environments. Certainly, pain is like a blessing for the body without which, the body would get self-inflicted with injuries without any sense or knowledge of the injury. However there exists  a rare condition called congenital insensitivity to pain (CIP) which affects about one in a million people in UK. People with this condition do not feel pain and as a result accumulate numerous self-inflicted injuries, often leading to reduced lifespan.
An international team of researchers co-led by the University of Cambridge studied 11 families with the disorder, CIP across Europe and Asia using detailed Genome mapping techniques to understand the reason behind this insensitivity to pain. Scientists have identified CIP individuals to be carrying variants of the PRDM12 gene, which is responsible for insensitivity to pain unlike the normal individuals. Interestingly all the individuals showing CIP carried two copies of this variant gene whereas the ones with a single copy remained unaffected.
“The ability to sense pain is essential to our self-preservation, yet we understand far more about excessive pain than we do about lack of pain perception,” says Professor Geoff Woods from the Cambridge Institute for Medical Research at the University of Cambridge, who co-led the study. “Both are equally important to the development of new pain treatments – if we know the mechanisms that underlie pain sensation, we can then potentially control and reduce unnecessary pain.”
The nerve biopsies taken from the CIP individuals revealed absence of pain sensing neurons. The team predicted that the development of these pain sensing neurons was blocked during the embryonic development in the affected individuals. This point was confirmed by various studies in mouse and frog models. The clinical features of the disease were also confirmed in-vitro using human stem cells (IPSCs, Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells).
“We are very hopeful that this new gene could be an excellent candidate for drug development, particularly given recent successes with drugs targeting chromatin regulators in human disease,” adds Dr Ya-Chun Chen from the University of Cambridge, the study’s first author. “This could potentially benefit those who are at danger from lack of pain perception and help in the development of new treatments for pain relief.”
However, PRDM12 is not the first but only the fifth gene related to lack of pain perception to have been identified to date. Two of the previously-discovered genes have already led to the development of new pain killers that are in different phases of clinical trials currently.
These findings were published in the renowned journal Nature Genetics .
Share this:
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Follow biotechin.asia via Email
Enter your email address to follow biotechin.asia and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 7,759 other followers
Join 7,759 other followers
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:

