Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
NRA convention gives 2016 GOP hopefuls stage to rally base
Rally the base. It's the starting premise of any presidential primary. And on Friday afternoon in Nashville, a dozen potential hopefuls for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination will each get their shots at energizing one of the GOP's biggest constituencies.
Post to Facebook
NRA convention gives 2016 GOP hopefuls stage to rally base Rally the base. It's the starting premise of any presidential primary. And on Friday afternoon in Nashville, a dozen potential hopefuls for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination will each get their shots at energizing one of the GOP's biggest constituencies. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1ygAnj7
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
3
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
NRA convention gives 2016 GOP hopefuls stage to rally base
Joey Garrison and Mary Troyan, The Tennessean and USA TODAY 12:25 p.m. EDT April 9, 2015
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, speaks at a campaign event on April 2, 2015, in Cedar Falls, Iowa.
(Photo: Matthew Putney, AP)
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Rally the base.
It's the starting premise of any presidential primary. And on Friday afternoon in Nashville, a dozen potential hopefuls for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination will each get their shots at energizing one of the GOP's biggest constituencies.
The National Rifle Association's annual convention — set to begin Friday at Nashville's Music City Center — has long been the go-to event for Second Amendment activists and conservatives. And since 2007, the NRA has become an annual stage for virtually every Republican weighing runs for the Oval Office.
This year's NRA Leadership Forum, scheduled for 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. on Friday, features the longest list of possible presidential candidates in the history of the 144-year-old meeting. And the gathering is particularly timely.
The NRA convention, on the heels of the Conservative Political Action Conference in February and the Iowa Ag Summit last month, sets up as the third side-by-side gathering of Republican presidential hopefuls this year. Voting begins eight months from now in Iowa, and the field is starting to come together.
Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas was the first to announce his run, followed this week by Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky.
Cruz is among those slated to speak Friday. Others expected to speak are former Florida governor Jeb Bush, Dr. Ben Carson, former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, former Texas governor Rick Perry, Sen. Marco Rubio, former senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and billionaire businessman Donald Trump. Indiana Gov. Mike Pence was scheduled to speak but canceled, and former Alaska governor Sarah Palin also canceled her appearance.
Each will each get 10 minutes to address the crowd — one that is ripe with likely Republican primary voters.
"What all the candidates are trying to do right now is lock up the support of the base, lock up activist support and to generate additional campaign funds," said John Geer, a political science professor at Vanderbilt University. "Right now, the campaign is not for the public's vote. That comes later. Now, they're campaigning for the support of the insiders, for party activists, for potential contributors.
"The NRA is a really important organization," he said. "If the NRA comes out and supported you, that helps. If they came out against you, that's going to be something that's going to come back and haunt you in a primary. It's an important litmus test for these candidates."
The lone presidential contenders not scheduled to speak at the NRA meeting are Paul, who is slated to tour early primary states following his presidential announcement, and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who has a checkered past with the the NRA, which rated him a C rating two years ago. That same year, Christie criticized an NRA television ad that mentioned the daughters of President Obama as "reprehensible."
Neither Christie nor Paul were invited to Nashville, NRA officials confirmed. Nor was Tennessee Republican Gov. Bill Haslam, who as mayor of Knoxville was a member of the New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg-led Mayors Against Illegal Guns — an issue that arose during his 2010 run for governor. Republican Sen. Bob Corker, conversely, will address NRA members.
Former Florida governor Jeb Bush speaks at a forum in Denver on April 7, 2015.
 (Photo: Brennan Linsley, AP)
POLITICAL CLOUT
The NRA has never been bigger, with membership rising to more than 5 million.
The group's influence is enormous among Republicans at all levels — so much so that Tennessee House Speaker Beth Harwell has acknowledged that the NRA's arrival to Nashville this week got them acting more quickly to try to pass controversial guns-in-parks legislation.
Andrew Arulanandam, the NRA's managing director of public affairs, said NRA members will want to learn how the presidential candidates would work to secure their freedom as well as their stances on Second Amendment rights, efforts to preserve hunting and self-defense laws.
"If there's one thing history has shown, NRA members can make a difference in any local, state or national election," Arulanandam said. "The real credit here goes to our members and to our supporters."
A few candidates are worth watching especially closely:
• Though Bush has a past A+ rating from the NRA and is considered by some the presidential frontrunner, he has irked some on the far right of the Republican Party for his stances on Common Core and immigration. At CPAC, Bush was booed. How will he be received at the NRA convention?
• Cruz will be the only declared candidate to take the stage at the NRA event. He announced his candidacy with an assertive appeal to Tea Party voters. Paul, another Tea Party candidate, has since entered but won't be in Nashville. Will Cruz's speech stand out?
• Walker has won the admiration of many conservatives for winning elections and pushing anti-union measures in a state that usually votes Democratic in statewide races. Could he emerge a winner at the NRA event?
A PROMINENT STAGE
Few stages provide GOP presidential contenders the chance to speak directly to the most consistent Republican primary voters, according to conservative political commentator Steve Gill of Nashville. The NRA convention is one of them.
If a candidate capitalizes, they can catch fire.
"You're amplifying your impact at an event like this with these candidates," Gill said. "If somebody comes away impressed by you here, they're going to spread the word."
Like the recent Conservative Political Action Conference and Iowa Ag Summit events, the NRA event allows like-minded voters to road test each candidate against one another under the bright lights of the big stage.
CPAC attendees often look for the most passionate social conservative, and Iowans sift through policy positions on ethanol and trade.
Republican contenders have a long checklist of policy positions that are sure to win NRA applause on Friday. They are likely to announce their support for federal legislation to make each states' concealed carry permits valid in other states that also allow for concealed carry, and state laws that allow gun owners to use deadly force to defend themselves, similar to Florida's Stand Your Ground law.
Many of them are also expected to celebrate the defeat of a regulation that would have limited access to certain types of ammunition used in AR-15 semiautomatic rifles, and promise to fight efforts to ban high-capacity magazines.
But to shine, candidates will need more than just policy talk. They will need to appeal to emotions. The most memorable NRA moment probably came in 2000 at Charlotte when Charlton Heston famously declared, "from my cold, dead hands."
Aside from Christie, the NRA rates the entire field of potential GOP candidates very high on Second Amendment issues, so it will be tough for any one candidate to set himself apart. And yet the NRA is an easy decision for campaign schedulers, said Larry Sabato, director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia.
"A Republican contender for president wants to be the A+ student in a room full of A students," Sabato said.
Like CPAC, the NRA event is about base-revving, not so much fundraising ."It's not about money as much as votes and volunteers," Sabato said. "Many NRA activists are heavily involved with the Republican Party and very likely to show up at caucus and primary time."
National Republican pollster Frank Luntz said more than half of likely Republican primary voters have guns in their homes, so the NRA event is critical.
"This issue matters to Republican primary voters. They take their Second Amendment rights seriously, and they care what candidates think," Luntz said.
He said gun owners are going to look for more than just a stated belief in Second Amendment rights. Gun owners want to know if a candidate hunts or takes target practice or grew up around firearms.
"They are going to listen to the language to decide the sincerity of the speaker," Luntz said. "Is it part of your culture, or is it something you've done to just tick the box?"
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1ygAnj7
USA NOW
Apr 09, 2015

