Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel phones voters at a campaign office Tuesday, April 7, 2015 in Chicago, as he and his opponent Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garcia rally supporters on the morning of the city's mayoral runoff election. It's the first runoff since Chicago switched to non-partisan elections 20 years ago. (AP Photo/M. Spencer Green)
Mayor Rahm Emanuel was poised Tuesday to win his fight for political survival, but a victory over Jesus “Chuy” Garcia could come at a heavy financial and political price that could make it more difficult for the mayor to govern in a second term.
With 68 percent of the vote counted, Emanuel had 56.1 percent to Garcia’s 43.9 percent. The turnout was roughly 40 percent, up from 34 percent on Feb. 24.
By 7:30 p.m., the crowd was sparse, but there was already a band playing at Emanuel’s election night headquarters at Plumbers Hall, where there was no music on Feb. 24. Many of the those in the crowd were wearing “Rahm Love” T-shirts commemorating the pro-Emanuel ad campaign bankrolled by Unite Here Local 1.
One Emanuel insider predicted that, if the margin holds, the mayor could end up with more votes than he did when he captured 55 percent of the vote in 2011.
Emanuel’s formula for victory in Chicago’s first-ever mayoral runoff appeared to be a vastly improved ground game to get his targeted voters to the polls and a pre-election push to get his supporters to vote early or by mail before they left town for spring break.
Emanuel appeared to be poised to win a second term, only after raising an astounding $20.5 million for his re-election campaign to just under $6 million for Garcia.
That allowed the mayor to dominate the airwaves with commercials that defined Garcia before the challenger had a chance to define himself.
The Emanuel blitzkrieg portrayed Garcia as a captive of the Chicago Teachers Union that bankrolled his campaign and as inexperienced, indecisive and incapable of leading Chicago away from the financial cliff.
Garcia played into the mayor’s hands by promising to hire 1,000 additional police officers and eliminate red light cameras without saying where he would find the $170 million to pay for those promises.
The challenger also made himself a target by punting the desperate need for new revenues to solve the combined, $30 billion pension crisis at the city and schools to a post-election commission that would report back in 90 days — after the Illinois General Assembly had already adjourned its spring session.
That allowed the mayor to portray himself as the only candidate with a plan to solve the financial crisis. Never mind that Emanuel’s own plan is heavily reliant on a General Assembly that has not exactly ridden to the rescue of Chicago and on a rookie Republican governor whose doomsday budget cuts would make Chicago’s problems infinitely worse.
Round One of the mayoral sweepstakes was a referendum on Emanuel’s pay-to-play politics, his dictatorial, top-down management style and on the school closings, charter openings and persistent crime that alienated African-American voters who helped put the mayor in office four years ago.
Disgruntled Chicago voters — even some who considered Emanuel the most qualified–seemed determined to extend the debate, take Emanuel down a peg or two and make him sweat to earn a second term.
Not even President Barack Obama’s in-person endorsement a few days before the election was enough to save Emanuel, Obama’s former White House chief-of-staff.
The political dynamic changed dramatically in Round Two.
Emanuel succeeded in making it as much a referendum on Garcia’s preparedness and stewardship of a non-profit group he started and left with a six-figure deficit as it was on the mayor’s own record and abrasive personal style.
The field was leveled somewhat by the $4.5 million that poured into Garcia’s campaign after he managed to force Emanuel into Chicago’s first-ever mayoral runoff.
Garcia’s political windfall included contributions from national unions and liberal Democrats determined to settle old scores with Emanuel from his take-no-prisoners days as White House chief-of-staff and as head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee before that.
But, Emanuel managed to raise another $5.4 million for the runoff and had enough cash left over from Round One to get on the air immediately while Garcia was still criss-crossing the country raising money.
Shortly after falling short with just 45.6 percent of the vote on Feb. 24, Emanuel hit the air with an extraordinary mea culpa for a man who seldom, if ever, publicly admits mistakes.
Dressed in a V-neck sweater and an open-collar shirt, Emanuel looked straight into the camera and acknowledged that his “greatest strengths” are also his “greatest weakness.” He admitted he can “rub people the wrong way” and often “talk when I should listen.”
The mayor would close the Round 2 campaign in similarly vulnerable fashion.
“Chicago is a great city, but we can be even better. And yeah, I hear you – so can I,” Emanuel said.
Garcia used his own commercials to hammer away at his central themes.
He’s the likeable guy from the neighborhoods who will listen to Chicagoans who believe their voices have been ignored in favor of Emanuel’s wealthy campaign contributors.
He’s the candidate who will pay attention to crime-ridden and job-starved neighborhoods plagued by 10,000 shootings, have his finger on the pulse of everyday Chicagoans and replace “Mayor 1 percent” with “Mayor 100 percent.”
The decision by SEIU Local 1 to drop its neutrality and endorse Garcia could have been a game-changer.
It translated into hundreds of thousands of dollars in political contributions, thousands of field workers and commercials trashing Emanuel as an evil dictator who has presided over two Chicago’s: a glistening downtown and a neighborhood under-belly.
But, by courting Local 1 President Tom Balanoff, Emanuel managed to delay that inevitable endorsement for weeks. The same went for millionaire businessman Willie Wilson, who finished fourth in Round One with 10.6 percent of the vote.
Emanuel courted Wilson, knowing full well that Wilson was almost certain to endorse Garcia. By doing so, he delayed the impact of Wilson’s endorsement.
During a week-long span, Garcia managed to roll out an endorsement-a-day from prominent African-Americans, including U.S. Rep. Danny Davis (D-Il.), former Il. Senate President Emil Jones (D-Chicago), the Rev. Jesse Jackson Sr. and Wilson.
Emanuel countered with dozens of black ministers, taking a page out of the playbook of his predecessor and political mentor, former Mayor Richard M. Daley.
But, Garcia never managed to nail down the most pivotal endorsement.
County Board President Toni Preckwinkle, the mayoral challenger that City Hall feared most, stayed on the sidelines, as she did in Round One. That’s even though Garcia is a county commissioner who serves as Preckwinkle’s floor leader.
And in spite of his history as a loyal supporter of the late Mayor Harold Washington, it appears that Garcia did not manage to resurrect the black-Hispanic coalition that culminated in Washington’s election as Chicago’s first African-American mayor.
In fact, U.S. Rep. Bobby Rush (D-Il.), a former Emanuel critic who endorsed the mayor over Garcia, argued that Garcia’s attempt to resurrect that multi-racial coalition had “cheapened” Washington’s legacy.
In calling out Garcia, Rush tiptoed around the historic tension between blacks and Hispanics that has forced the two groups to compete against each other for jobs and contracts while immigration reform has leapfrogged over the issue of economic fairness.
The three televised debates between Emanuel and Garcia could have been pivotal, but they were pretty much fought to a draw.
Emanuel came out on top in the first debate by portraying himself as a many with a plan to solve Chicago’s financial crisis and Garcia as a politician who had made promises he couldn’t keep.
Garcia won the second debate by putting Emanuel on his heels for presiding over a government by fiat and press release that is “out of touch” with the priorities of everyday Chicagoans. He even laughed in the mayor’s face and told Emanuel he was mayor of Chicago—not “king.”
Emanuel came back strong in the third debate. But, that final confrontation was dominated by a moderator’s tasteless questioning about Garcia’s son, a former gang member.
In Round One, Emanuel captured 37 of Chicago’s 50 wards, but fell short by getting just 52.8 percent of the white vote, 42.8 percent of the black vote and 37.6 percent among Hispanics.
His formula for a runoff victory was to capture roughly 60 percent of the white vote, in the low-to-mid 50’s among African-Americans and hold onto at least one-third of the Hispanic vote and hope that Hispanics do not make up more than 20 percent of the overall vote.
The mayor hoped to hit the mark by boosting disappointing turnout in affluent wards like the 42nd and 43rd, where he wracked up more than 70 percent of the vote.
He also hoped to win a healthy chunk of the 33,911 votes won by Ald. Bob Fioretti (2nd), who endorsed Emanuel, amid speculation that it was part of political deal to retire Fioretti’s $200,000 campaign debt.
Emanuel’s campaign was so concerned about getting its voters to the polls, it bought 2,500 ponchos to protect its rejuvenated army of precinct workers from the rain.
The mayor’s re-election campaign also had at least one vehicle assigned to every one of Chicago’s 50 wards to drive voters to the polls. A lackluster ground game preceding Round One was replaced by 5,000 volunteers working four-hour shifts.
They include “a ton of labor” supplied by trade unions and the Chicago Firefighters Union Local 2, a “large paid program” and ward organizations no longer pre-occupied with aldermanic elections that have been “commandeered” by the Emanuel campaign. They engaged in hand-to-hand, house-to-house combat with Garcia’s dedicated army of 5,000 soldiers, including SEIU members and teachers on spring break.
At least three of Aaron Schock's aides have been summoned to testify before a grand jury http://t.co/hFfL4Bfrq5 [corrects typo]
Latest
Chicago Sun-Times Network Info

