Sunday starts nine days of Republican presidential candidate visits to Charleston
Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry
×
Sunday
Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and his family will attend Charleston’s 6:30 a.m. Easter Sunrise Celebration hosted by First Baptist and St. Michael’s Church. White Point Garden, 2 Murray Blvd. No public comment expected. Cruz will be airing TV ads in the state.
Monday
Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry will speak to The Citadel Republican Society at noon, Mark Clark Hall’s Buyer Auditorium. Open to the public. Hundreds of cadets are expected to attend.
Thursday
U.S. Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky launches his South Carolina campaign at the aircraft carrier Yorktown at Patriots Point in Mount Pleasant. Rally begins at noon. His campaign is asking attendees to register on Paul campaign websites.
Saturday
Former Pennsylvania U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum visits the Charleston and Dorchester counties’ Republican Party conventions. Party members only.
Monday
New York real estate mogul Donald Trump and former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina will address the State Financial Officers Foundation in Charleston. Two-day conference will be held at the DoubleTree Hotel by Hilton. Registered attendees only.
*Others could announce visits in coming days. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio is expected to formally declare his White House bid April 13, with a South Carolina trip likely to follow.  Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee may attend April 11 Charleston GOP convention.
Charleston’s importance in the Republican presidential selection process will be highlighted in the week ahead as a flood of candidates is expected in the next eight days, showing the importance of visiting the first Southern primary state early and often.
The run begins this morning when U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz and his family attend an Easter sunrise service near The Battery.
Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, New York businessman Donald Trump and Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul are some of the others.
Why so much interest this week? Two main reasons.
First: Congress is on a two-week Easter break and some of the potential candidates are using the downtime to escape Washington.
Second: Charleston and coastal South Carolina remains a lucrative voting bloc, dominated by a mix of military retirees, faith-based voters, tea party supporters and Republican-leaning moderate suburbanites.
Still, some see the trips primarily as part of the process of collecting names of potential supporters, and appealing for campaign cash.
“At this stage, a lot of the campaign stops are about fundraising,” said College of Charleston political scientist Jordan Ragusa.
He added “ideologues on both sides of the aisle are more likely to donate than moderates. So South Carolina may be more friendly terrain for fundraising purposes.”
South Carolina’s GOP primary is set for the middle of next February, but the exact weekend has not yet been announced by party leaders in charge of the calendar.
Most of the candidates have visited the state already, though not to every corner.
Also scheduled to make Charleston-area visits in the coming days are former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina, who, along with Trump, will address a convention of state financial officers. Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, who’s been in Charleston more than anyone in the field, will attend the Dorchester and Charleston county conventions Saturday.
The biggest single scheduled event in the week ahead comes Thursday when Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul formally launches his South Carolina campaign with a rally in the grassy area at Patriots Point, using the aircraft carrier Yorktown as a photogenic backdrop.
Ragusa said the Paul event already is creating significant buzz among college-aged students who are in tune with his brand of liberty politics.
“ ‘Young Americans for Liberty’ is a very active club at the College of Charleston,” Ragusa said of the group that previously has been identified with Paul’s father, former congressman Ron Paul of Texas.
“I can think of a dozen students in my classes who will be there on Thursday,” he added.
So far only Cruz has formally committed to entering the race. The first-term lawmaker last week made his first foray into South Carolina since declaring last month he would seek the White House.
Most all of the coming week’s visitors are part of what poll numbers indicate are the lower-tier favorites in South Carolina, where former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker and U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham are at the top. Bush and Walker recently appeared with Gov. Nikki Haley during their first forays into the state last month.
But political watchers are cautioning that the 2016 race should, in no way, be couched today as a Bush-Walker showdown. Campaign visits, like the ones Charleston will experience this week, are part of the vetting process that allow voters to see how candidates act in person, along with how they present their stances and the media scrutiny that goes with it.
“For many voters out there, Bush and Walker — they still don’t know a whole lot about either one of them,” said Citadel political scientist B. DuBose Kapeluck.
“So I don’t think it’s over by a long shot,” he added. “You never know what could come up. It’s way too early to be signing this thing off as a Bush-Walker contest.”
Reach Schuyler Kropf at 937-5551.
Keywords
Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky.
Notice about comments:
The Post and Courier is pleased to offer readers the enhanced ability to comment on stories. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.
We do not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the X that appears in the upper right corner when you hover over a comment. This will send the comment to Facebook for review. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Read our full terms and conditions .
Most Popular
loading...
© 2015, The Post and Courier, an Evening Post Industries company.
All Rights Reserved.

