Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
Canada's Bouchard loses in Slam's 1st round for 1st time Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HJ10AI
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Canada's Bouchard loses in Slam's 1st round for 1st time
AP 3:09 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
PARIS (AP) — The losses keep mounting for Eugenie Bouchard, who was so good last year and is having so much trouble nowadays.
Exiting in the first round of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time in her nascent career, No. 6 Bouchard became the highest-seeded player bounced from the French Open, losing 6-4, 6-4 on Tuesday to 44th-ranked Kristina Mladenovic of France.
Bouchard has lost eight of her past nine matches.
"Honestly, I don't know what to say. It's been kind of the same as how I have been feeling recently on the court. Just not like myself," the 21-year-old Canadian said. "I just feel like it's been a while that this has been happening, and, you know, it's unfortunate. But, you know, I'm sure one day it will stop."
Last season, Bouchard appeared to be establishing herself as one of tennis' next big stars, reaching three consecutive Grand Slam semifinals, including at the French Open. She was the runner-up at Wimbledon.
"On paper, that's true, she's had fewer wins, but last year, her season was exceptional. So it is tough for her to have the same results," Mladenovic said. "People are expecting a lot. And it's true, people say that she's lost some of her confidence."
For a stretch of the second set Tuesday, Bouchard appeared ready to get herself back into the match.
She trailed 5-0 in that set, bouncing her racket twice off the clay at Court Suzanne Lenglen in a show of frustration, then won four straight games to make things more interesting.
But Mladenovic managed to serve out the victory.
"I felt I was in the match. But tennis-wise, I still knew I was far off from how well I can play," Bouchard said. "But, you know, I was in there, and I just felt like I couldn't be as relaxed as I wanted to on the court."
As for whether this latest setback will linger in her mind for a while, Bouchard insisted she would get over it soon.
"I mean, definitely for a day or so, I'll think about the match. But I think it's important to try to move on quickly in tennis in general because every Monday there is a new chance," she said. "So I'm going to try and forget this one."
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


Early Round Coverage
French Open Primetime
18h ago
The Canadian Press
Bouchard falls to Mladenovic at French Open
PARIS - Eugenie Bouchard says she hasn't been feeling like herself lately. That's an understatement, judging by her recent results on the court.
The Canadian tennis star continued her disappointing season Tuesday at the French Open, as the sixth-seed was stunned 6-4, 6-4, by France's Kristina Mladenovic in the first round.
Bouchard has lost eight of her last nine matches combined on the WTA Tour and in Fed Cup play, and most of the defeats have been to players well below her in the WTA rankings.
"Honestly I don't know what to say. It's been kind of the same as how I've been feeling recently on the court. Just not like myself," Bouchard said after the loss to Mladenovic. "It's just a tennis match and I need to not worry too much. Life is still good. Everyone has highs and lows in their career, and this is a little bit of a low point for me."
Tuesday's loss ended is disastrous clay-court season for Bouchard. She managed just one win in four tournaments, beating No. 34 Zarina Diyas earlier this month at the Italian Open before falling in the third round in a hard-fought match against No. 10 Carla Suarez Navarro.
The results in Rome seemed to indicate Bouchard was coming out of a tailspin that saw her lose to the likes of Tatjana Maria (ranked 113th in the world), Lesia Tsurenko (85th) and Lauren Davis (66th).
Yet the native of Westmount, Que., came out flat against Mladenovic on Monday en route to losing a first-round Grand Slam match for the first time in her career.
"I felt a bit better in Rome, so I think that just makes it more disappointing to have a performance like today," Bouchard said. "I feel like it's been a while since this has been happening. It's unfortunate, but I'm sure one day it will stop."
Bouchard's slide includes a pair of singles losses at last month's Fed Cup tie between Canada and Romania in front of a partisan crowd in Montreal. She refused to shake the hand of opponent Alexandra Dulgheru in a pre-match ceremony, a breach of etiquette that caused a media buzz and showed her off-court image is also suffering through this downturn.
In spite of the recent negativity, there were a few positives for Bouchard from Monday's match. In the first set she saved match point four times before finally losing when her volley went long in the 10th game
Bouchard also showed some fight in the second set, battling back from 5-0 down by winning four games in a row. But her comeback started too far too late.
"I felt I was in the match, but tennis-wise I know I was still far off from how I can play," she said. "I felt like I couldn't be as relaxed as I wanted to on the court.
"It's important to try to move on quickly. Every Monday there's a new chance, so I'm going to try to forget this one."
Bouchard reached the semifinal at Roland Garros last year in a breakout season that also saw her advance to the Wimbledon final and the semifinals at the Australian Open.
This year has been the complete opposite for Bouchard, who has struggled after reaching the quarter-finals at the Australian Open.
The normally competitive Bouchard said she had no expectations at this year's French Open, and won't put pressure on herself as she starts the grass season and prepares for another run at Wimbledon.
"At this point I had no expectations going in, and I have no expectations for the foreseeable future. I'm going to try to slowly work my way back up."
Mladenovic has a Canadian connection, as she often pairs with Toronto's Daniel Nestor in mixed doubles. The duo will compete this week in Paris.
Earlier, Vancouver's Vasek Pospisil was eliminated after a first-round loss to Joao Sousa of Portugal.
The 53rd-ranked Canadian fell in straight sets 6-3, 7-6 (5), 6-1.
Pospisil committed 45 unforced errors to Sousa's 16.
The 50th-ranked Sousa converted seven of 14 break chances while Pospisil was 2-for-5.
Milos Raonic of Thornhill, Ont., Canada's top male singles player, is missing the tournament after recent foot surgery.

