Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
Canada's Bouchard loses in Slam's 1st round for 1st time Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HJ10AI
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Canada's Bouchard loses in Slam's 1st round for 1st time
AP 3:09 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
PARIS (AP) — The losses keep mounting for Eugenie Bouchard, who was so good last year and is having so much trouble nowadays.
Exiting in the first round of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time in her nascent career, No. 6 Bouchard became the highest-seeded player bounced from the French Open, losing 6-4, 6-4 on Tuesday to 44th-ranked Kristina Mladenovic of France.
Bouchard has lost eight of her past nine matches.
"Honestly, I don't know what to say. It's been kind of the same as how I have been feeling recently on the court. Just not like myself," the 21-year-old Canadian said. "I just feel like it's been a while that this has been happening, and, you know, it's unfortunate. But, you know, I'm sure one day it will stop."
Last season, Bouchard appeared to be establishing herself as one of tennis' next big stars, reaching three consecutive Grand Slam semifinals, including at the French Open. She was the runner-up at Wimbledon.
"On paper, that's true, she's had fewer wins, but last year, her season was exceptional. So it is tough for her to have the same results," Mladenovic said. "People are expecting a lot. And it's true, people say that she's lost some of her confidence."
For a stretch of the second set Tuesday, Bouchard appeared ready to get herself back into the match.
She trailed 5-0 in that set, bouncing her racket twice off the clay at Court Suzanne Lenglen in a show of frustration, then won four straight games to make things more interesting.
But Mladenovic managed to serve out the victory.
"I felt I was in the match. But tennis-wise, I still knew I was far off from how well I can play," Bouchard said. "But, you know, I was in there, and I just felt like I couldn't be as relaxed as I wanted to on the court."
As for whether this latest setback will linger in her mind for a while, Bouchard insisted she would get over it soon.
"I mean, definitely for a day or so, I'll think about the match. But I think it's important to try to move on quickly in tennis in general because every Monday there is a new chance," she said. "So I'm going to try and forget this one."
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


More
More
Times points
HI,
Breaking News:
AFP | May 27, 2015, 09.19 AM IST
PARIS: From corporate sports dream girl with a fondness for Justin Bieber to accusations of being a pouting prima donna, it's been a long year for Eugenie Bouchard.
Blonde, athletic and oozing an unshakable self-confidence, Bouchard was being touted as tennis's natural heir to Maria Sharapova in 2014 when she swept to the semi-finals of the Australian and French Opens and a runners-up spot at Wimbledon.
But fast forward to 2015 and with even grizzled coach Sam Sumyk admitting that the Canadian poster girl is a target for getting "her butt kicked", the 21-year-old is facing a worrying crisis of her rock-solid self-belief.
On Tuesday, she suffered the first ever opening round defeat of her young Grand Slam career, a dispiriting 6-4, 6-4 French Open exit at the hands of Kristina Mladenovic.
It was her eighth loss in her last nine outings and having failed to defend the windfall of points she earned by making the semi-finals at Roland Garros last year, Bouchard is looking at slipping out of the world top 10.
Her predicament will be even worse if she flops at Wimbledon where last year she was courted by media and public alike for her tales of being named in honour of Princess Eugenie, the grand-daughter of Queen Elizabeth.
Her stock rose further at the All England Club when her fascination with social media, pop bad boy Bieber and Jim Parsons, the actor who portrays science geek Sheldon Cooper in hit TV series The Big Bang Theory, accompanied her to the final.
"At this point I had no expectations coming in (to the French Open). I have no expectations for the foreseeable future," was Bouchard's blunt assessment after her defeat to Mladenovic.
The world number six was right to be bleak.
Her only quarter-final appearance this year came at the Australian Open in January and her 2015 claycourt season will show just one win -- over Zarina Diyas in Rome.
In between, she also lost two Fed Cup rubbers against Romania where she again attracted criticism for refusing to shake the hand of her opponents at the draw ceremony.
She argues it's a "lame" tradition; her critics accuse her of simple bad manners.
"When you have good results and climb up in the rankings, you enter the realm of the most hated players... everyone wants to kick your butt," Sumyk told L'Equipe.
Sumyk has been Bouchard's coach since January having spent the best part of five years guiding Victoria Azarenka to two Australian Open titles and the world number one spot.
But so far, that stardust has not settled on the shoulders of Bouchard.
"You have several choices in a storm. You can get depressed, attach a weight to your leg and jump off a bridge. Or, if you have character, and I think my player has lots of character, you bounce back," said Sumyk.
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms?alias=Sheldon Cooper,Roland Garros,Maria Sharapova,Justin Bieber,Eugenie Bouchard
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.
Get updates on the most important happening of the day
ALSO ON TOI
Search for News
Be the first one to review.
We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message
Connect with us
Login
It seems you are already registered with us. Please enter your account details below:
User Name:
From Sports
Across Times of India
Trending Topics
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Submit button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Out of context/Spam
Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.

