Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
Canada's Bouchard loses in Slam's 1st round for 1st time Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HJ10AI
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Canada's Bouchard loses in Slam's 1st round for 1st time
AP 3:09 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
PARIS (AP) — The losses keep mounting for Eugenie Bouchard, who was so good last year and is having so much trouble nowadays.
Exiting in the first round of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time in her nascent career, No. 6 Bouchard became the highest-seeded player bounced from the French Open, losing 6-4, 6-4 on Tuesday to 44th-ranked Kristina Mladenovic of France.
Bouchard has lost eight of her past nine matches.
"Honestly, I don't know what to say. It's been kind of the same as how I have been feeling recently on the court. Just not like myself," the 21-year-old Canadian said. "I just feel like it's been a while that this has been happening, and, you know, it's unfortunate. But, you know, I'm sure one day it will stop."
Last season, Bouchard appeared to be establishing herself as one of tennis' next big stars, reaching three consecutive Grand Slam semifinals, including at the French Open. She was the runner-up at Wimbledon.
"On paper, that's true, she's had fewer wins, but last year, her season was exceptional. So it is tough for her to have the same results," Mladenovic said. "People are expecting a lot. And it's true, people say that she's lost some of her confidence."
For a stretch of the second set Tuesday, Bouchard appeared ready to get herself back into the match.
She trailed 5-0 in that set, bouncing her racket twice off the clay at Court Suzanne Lenglen in a show of frustration, then won four straight games to make things more interesting.
But Mladenovic managed to serve out the victory.
"I felt I was in the match. But tennis-wise, I still knew I was far off from how well I can play," Bouchard said. "But, you know, I was in there, and I just felt like I couldn't be as relaxed as I wanted to on the court."
As for whether this latest setback will linger in her mind for a while, Bouchard insisted she would get over it soon.
"I mean, definitely for a day or so, I'll think about the match. But I think it's important to try to move on quickly in tennis in general because every Monday there is a new chance," she said. "So I'm going to try and forget this one."
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


Posted on: 09:07 AM IST May 27, 2015
Paris: Eugenie Bouchard's miserable run of form continued with a French Open first-round exit on Tuesday but the Canadian golden girl believes she just needs to start trusting herself to get back in the groove.
The sixth seed, dubbed the next big thing of women's tennis last year, arrived in Paris having lost six out of seven matches and there was no improvement on Court Suzanne Lenglen as she lost 6-4, 6-4 to Frenchwoman Kristina Mladenovic.
Bouchard's miserable recent form continued on Tuesday with a 6-4, 6-4 defeat against Frenchwoman Kristina Mladenovic.
Wimbledon runner-up Bouchard, who reached the last four at Roland Garros last year, resisted well in the opening set but was outplayed in the second.
Mladenovic, ranked 44th in the world, struggled to handle the pressure after opening a 5-0 lead in the second set but a strong first serve on match point ensured a second-round meeting with Czech Klara Koukalova or Montenegro's Danka Kovinic.
"I expected a good season, better than last year," Bouchard told a news conference. "I have learned a lot recently. Moreover I have to be patient. The results won't come immediately. I know I can go through difficult times.
"When I'm playing my best tennis is when I'm being more instinctive. I think that's something I need to get back... trusting myself because I know I can play well."
Bouchard has failed to win more than two matches in a row since reaching the Australian Open quarter-finals at the start of the year.
Last term she reached the last four in three of the Grand Slams.
The 21-year-old Bouchard now plans to compete in a couple of warm-up tournaments before heading back to Wimbledon.
Copyright © 2015 IBNLive.com - All rights reserved

