NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
APRIL 11, 2015
Inside
Photo
Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama in Washington in 2007, as they were becoming rivals for the presidency. Credit Larry Downing/Reuters
He defeated her in a grueling Democratic nomination battle. Then she pursued his agenda across the world as secretary of state. Now, the delicate relationship between Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Obama is about to get even more complicated.
For months, Mrs. Clinton and her team have pored over Mr. Obama’s poll ratings, policies and constituencies, seeking to solve a central riddle for the campaign she is about to begin: How can she run for president as her own person, without criticizing the sitting president she served — while her Republican opponents will be working to demonize them both?
“That’s the anchor she’ll be dragging for the next couple of years,” said Stuart Stevens, who was a top strategist for Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee.
Mrs. Clinton will also be trying to defy political history: Only once since the establishment of the two-term limit in 1951 has a candidate won an election to succeed a president from the same party — and it was the first President George Bush, whose predecessor, Ronald Reagan, remained popular at the time and was beloved by Republicans.
Yet Mrs. Clinton and her team have decided that, on balance, the risk of lining up near Mr. Obama’s record is worth taking.
Rather than run from Mr. Obama, she intends to turn to him as one of her campaign’s most important allies and advocates — second only, perhaps, to her husband, the other president whose record will hover over her bid.
In a general election, Mr. Obama is expected to help Mrs. Clinton raise money, and he would be asked to campaign for her in, among other places, the most heavily African-American counties of the swing states that he won in 2008 and 2012, according to numerous people briefed on the plans, who discussed them on the condition of anonymity.
Mr. Obama would most likely be scarce on the stump in places like Ohio and Pennsylvania, where Mrs. Clinton defeated him in the 2008 primaries by appealing to women and white working-class voters.
But even in those states, Mrs. Clinton does not plan to distance herself from Mr. Obama’s record, advisers said. Rather, she intends to praise, above all, the economic progress Mr. Obama has made, getting the country out of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and cutting the unemployment rate nearly in half.
Advisers say Mrs. Clinton will promise a “new chapter” that would expand upon Mr. Obama’s efforts to address persistently stagnant wages and rising inequality.
Photo
Then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton with President Obama in September, 2012. Credit Doug Mills/The New York Times
Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, said she "is proud of what was accomplished, both as President Obama’s partner on critical issues of national security, and on the progress made on the domestic front" and that "a campaign would be about laying out her own vision for tackling our toughest challenges."
But seeking a “third Obama term,” as some put it in the shorthand of political operatives, is not a simple matter for Mrs. Clinton. She can take little credit for the administration’s signature domestic accomplishments, like the Affordable Care Act, and she has scant leeway to disavow what Republicans portray as Mr. Obama’s misguided foreign-policy moves in places like Iran, Israel and Russia.
The approach is laden with uncertainty: Many Democrats express concern that Mrs. Clinton’s endorsement of Mr. Obama’s policies, tacitly or explicitly, would rely on continuing economic tailwinds and that unforeseen crises could sour the mood of the American people and damage the president’s popularity. Moreover, by praising Mr. Obama’s accomplishments, along with those of her husband’s presidency, Mrs. Clinton, 67, could seem too focused on the past.
“How do you leverage the benefits and accomplishments of the last four years but make clear this is an election about the future?” said Chris Lehane, a strategist who worked for Bill Clinton and Al Gore.
Strategic Shift
Mrs. Clinton’s strategic calculation is a sharp change in perspective from late last year, after Republicans gained a majority in the Senate and retained control of the House in the midterm elections, when a record 55 percent of Americans said they disapproved of the president.
But recent internal polling led by Mrs. Clinton’s chief strategist, Joel Benenson, showed that independent voters, in particular, were frustrated with Washington’s “inability to get things done,” yet are not looking for wholesale changes to the Obama administration’s policies.
Those findings were reinforced, advisers to Mrs. Clinton said, by a Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted late last month. Asked which was more important in a presidential candidate, only 37 percent of Americans chose a “new direction,” while 55 percent opted for “experience.”An aide to Mrs. Clinton acknowledged the apparent contradiction with CNN’s poll question about the perfect candidate, but said the campaign put more stock in its own polling.
“Even people who are ambivalent about President Obama’s record want to elect a president who will do things, rather than a president who will undo things,” said Geoff Garin, a pollster who was a chief strategist on Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 campaign.
Increasingly in recent weeks, Mrs. Clinton has spoken of the need to find political consensus — to “get out of our mind-sets, our partisan bunkers” and bring Democrats and Republicans together in “a nice warm purple space where we’re trying to solve problems,” as she told a Silicon Valley convention of women in February.
The comments were notably evocative of Mr. Obama’s rhetoric in the 2008 campaign — which Mrs. Clinton mocked as evidence of his naïveté and inexperience. “Now, I could stand up here and say: ‘Let’s just get everybody together. Let’s get unified,’ ” she said to a roar of laughter at a Rhode Island rally that year. “The skies will open, the light will come down, celestial choirs will be singing and everyone will know we should do the right thing and the world will be perfect.”
But Mrs. Clinton’s gentle reproach about partisanship of late is meant to reassure independent voters that she would be a consensus builder as president.
For Mr. Obama’s loyalists, however — particularly black voters, who turned out for him in record numbers — such talk represents an implicit criticism of the president — that he failed to meet his promise to bridge, if not end, the partisan divide.
“That’s the gantlet that is really tough,” said Robert Gibbs, Mr. Obama’s former press secretary. “The question is what percentage of the electorate in very important states is going to be African-American, without an African-American on the ballot.”
At least, Mrs. Clinton will not have to contend with the quagmire that Vice President Gore faced in 2000, when he tried to embrace President Clinton’s popular policies while distancing himself from the scandals that had engulfed the administration and largely benching Mr. Clinton from the campaign trail. Mr. Gore’s laborious efforts, which were heavily second-guessed after his defeat, included testing subtle word changes to help distinguish himself from Mr. Clinton while still taking credit for the era’s prosperity.
A more likely road map for navigating the third-term question, according to advisers to both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama, would be the 1988 Bush campaign . Then the vice president, Mr. Bush delivered full-throated support for President Reagan’s conservative policies, but also called for a “a kinder, gentler nation.”
Photo
Hillary Rodham Clinton speaking at a campaign rally for Barack Obama in Winter Park, Fla., three days before the 2008 election. Credit Joshua Lott for The New York Times
Setting Herself Apart
In one way, Mrs. Clinton has plenty of maneuvering room to set herself apart from Mr. Obama: by appealing to voters as a mother and grandmother, and highlighting issues like equal pay and paid family leave that disproportionately affect women. And she intends to address stagnant wages and income inequality in new ways; one potential proposal would offer incentives to corporations that allow employees to share in profits.
Perhaps the stickiest area for Mrs. Clinton in putting daylight between her and Mr. Obama will be foreign policy — her portfolio as his secretary of state from 2009 to 2013.
She has taken credit for laying the diplomatic groundwork that led to the much-debated nuclear talks with Iran . She was widely criticized on the right for the failed “reset” of the relationship with Russia . And her handling of the deadly attack on the United States mission in Benghazi, Libya , remains the focus of congressional investigators.
Her potential opponents have already laid traps for her on foreign policy. Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, speculated that Mrs. Clinton would seek to disavow Mr. Obama’s handling of the current turmoil in Iraq, Syria and Yemen. “She’ll try,” Mr. Bush told the talk-radio host Hugh Hewitt, adding, “This is very Clintonian, I think, to figure out a way to get out of a mess.”
But Mrs. Clinton’s advisers say any tensions with the White House would quickly be magnified, as happened during Mr. Gore’s campaign, and distract voters from her message. “There will be a huge examination of where there is friction,” said Michael Feldman, a former aide to Mr. Gore.
Indeed, when Mrs. Clinton mildly criticized Mr. Obama’s Middle East policy in an interview with The Atlantic last summer, the commotion led her to apologize to the White House and her spokesman to say Mrs. Clinton would be “hugging it out” with the president on Martha’s Vineyard.
For Mr. Obama, there is good reason to tolerate any gibes from Mrs. Clinton, real or perceived.
With Republicans in control of Congress, Mr. Gibbs said, “he needs her to win this election so that the things he wants history to remember as his most consequential accomplishments aren’t undone in the first 100 days of a Republican administration.”
Mr. Obama, who is loath to drift into lame-duck status too soon, has been guarded in his comments about the 2016 race, partly, aides say, out of respect for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who has not ruled out a presidential campaign.
Asked last week about Mrs. Clinton’s prospects, the president was complimentary but vague. “If she’s her wonderful self,” he told NBC News, “I’m sure she’s going to do great.”
Follow The New York Times Politics section on Twitter and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter .
Loading...

