Posted: 04/10/2015, 06:30am | Lorna Finnegan, Digital Editorial Intern at Sun Times Network
In memory of Leelah Alcorn, the transgender teenager who threw herself in front of a truck last December as a result of what she saw as her parents’ rejection – a petition has made its way to the White House.
Tonight, the #WhiteHouse responds to citizen petition to ban conversion therapy. #LeelahAlcorn , for you. #LeelahsLaw pic.twitter.com/nKi3QdPovt
Wednesday night, President Obama responded to the petition with a pledge to advocate for a ban on a form of psychotherapy or counseling for minors that seeks to counsel them from homosexuality or gender identity questions. Cincinnati.com reported:
“When assessing the validity of conversion therapy, or other practices that seek to change an individual’s gender identity or sexual orientation, it is as imperative to seek guidance from certified medical experts,” Obama’s statement said. “The overwhelming scientific evidence demonstrates that conversion therapy, especially when it is practiced on young people, is neither medically nor ethically appropriate and can cause substantial harm.
“As part of our dedication to protecting America’s youth, this Administration supports efforts to ban the use of conversion therapy for minors.”
Leelah Alcorn's last words spur White House support to end LGBTQ+ conversion therapy http://t.co/8B9wftDb7F via @ABC pic.twitter.com/mL6HJEdwkX
Obama did not go so far as to offer legislation or to encourage the writing of a bill, as that would require congressional action. Instead, the White House suggested that the states should work on developing their own bans. California, New Jersey and the District of Columbia now ban the therapy practice.
At least one local leader of the LGBT community said Obama’s action was an important step forward.
“I saw it on Twitter when I was walking the dog. Twitter beeped at me, and I stood on the street and cried,” said Josh Wagoner, co-chair of Cincinnati’s office of the national Gay Lesbian Straight Education Network, or GLSEN .
More from Cincinnati
Sun Times Network Info

