Staff Report
Negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership and Trans-Pacific Partnership are playing out alongside President Obama seeking fast-track trade authority that would limit congressional input and speed the approval process.
The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership is aimed at removing trade barriers to make it easier to buy and sell goods and services between the U.S. and European Union. The Trans-Pacific Partnership is being negotiated between the U.S. and 11 Pacific Rim countries.
Opponents to these plans include some European farmers and American unions.
For this week’s reader poll, GSA Business asked online readers whether they thought international trade agreements would have a positive or negative impact on South Carolina. Readers were also asked what political party they most identified with to breakdown opinions by party.
Twenty people responded to the question: “Do you think the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership will be a good thing for South Carolina or a bad thing?” Here’s how they answered:
55%
Good
20%
Bad
5%
Neither
20%
I don't know enough about it.
Readers were then asked, “Do you think the Trans-Pacific Partnership will be a good thing for South Carolina or a bad thing?” Here’s how the 20 respondents replied:
50%
Good
20%
Bad
5%
Neither
25%
“I don't know enough about it.”
 
Nine people identified themselves as Republicans. Six, or 66.67%, said the trans-Atlantic agreement was a good thing; two, or 22%, said it was bad; and one, 11.11%, answered “I don’t know enough about it.”
Five, or 55.56%, of the Republicans said the trans-Pacific agreement was a good thing; 22.22% said it was bad; and 22.22% answered, “I don’t know enough about it.”
Nine people identified themselves as Independent. Three, or 33.33%, said the trans-Atlantic agreement was a good thing; two, or 22.22%, said it was bad; one, 11.11%, said it was neither good nor bad; and 33.33%, answered “I don’t know enough about it.”
Three, or 33.33%, of those who identified with Independents said the trans-Pacific agreement was a good thing; 22.22% said it was bad; one, 11.11%, said neither good nor bad; and 33.33% answered, “I don’t know enough about it.”
We then posed the question, “What would be the most important benefit of these trade agreements?”
Of 16 people who responded, nine, or 56.25% said the agreements would help our economy. Three, or 18.75%, answered they would strengthen ties between the U.S. and the partner countries.
Four readers, or 25.00%, wrote in responses. One wrote that they would improve access to markets outside the U.S., while another answered, “They help other countries more than U.S.”
One reader said they should both strengthen ties between the U.S. and the partner countries and help our economy, and another said there would be no benefit.
Here is a selection of comments left by our readers. Comments have been edited only for typos and style.
These supposed trade deals are an attempt to merge economies. These are a precursor to a political merger which was attempted in the NAFTA deal. Just think of what that trade deal did to deindustrialize our country. These are very bad deals.
The S.C. Upstate is international; we need to keep growing and expanding our business and personal relationships around the world.
These proposed trade agreements need to be discussed and debated in open forms for the public to determine if they are good or bad for the U.S. economy.
Trade agreements are always a mixed-results situation.
Removing barriers makes trade easier for all businesses, large and small.
Always better to encourage trade.

