Search
Maggie Haberman
In the 2008 Democratic nomination contest, Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign was rife with infighting and lacked a clear rationale. The endeavor initially seemed all about the candidate, not the voters.
This time, her brain trust is sending a strong message to her organization at the outset: We are a team, and this is about Americans.
That cannily timed warning was delivered on Saturday in a mission statement, given to staff members at an afternoon meeting in Mrs. Clinton’s Brooklyn campaign headquarters, which seemed to be intended as much for public consumption and speedily made its way into the hands of reporters.
The document, written by her campaign manager-to-be, Robby Mook, also pointed to what an attendee said would be the name of her anticipated campaign.
“We are Hillary for America,” declares the document, first reported by Politico and later obtained by The New York Times.
“Our purpose: To give every family, every small business, and every American a path to lasting prosperity by electing Hillary Clinton the next President of the United States.”
In a sentence freighted with significance, the memo continues: “This campaign is not about Hillary Clinton and not about us — it’s about the everyday Americans who are trying to build a better life for themselves and their families.”
An important challenge for Mrs. Clinton, a political celebrity for nearly a quarter-century, will be to show that the lens of her campaign is trained squarely on voters. That was the approach she took in her 2000 Senate race in New York, outworking her Republican opponent with a focus on small events, particularly in depressed areas of upstate New York.
The Mook memo also speaks to the commonality of the task at hand. “When we disagree, it’s never personal,” it says.
“We are a team: we are committed to helping each other succeed to deliver on our core purpose,” it reads. “We are a diverse, talented family: we work together, empower and respect each other, and have each other’s backs, especially our volunteers.”
“We are disciplined: driven every day by strategy, not tactics or one offs,” it goes on. “We know there will be tough days, but we will bounce back and get back to work. We take risks, always measuring with empirical data to establish best practices.”
And in a message that Mrs. Clinton did not get across in 2008: “We are humble: we take nothing for granted, we are never afraid to lose, we always out-compete and fight for every vote we can win.”
The memo was influenced by other Clinton advisers, including Joel Benenson, her chief strategist; the Texas advertising executive Roy Spence; and Mrs. Clinton’s longtime aide, Huma Abedin, people briefed on it said.
But its existence seemed most characteristic of the approach of Mr. Mook, who is steeped in field-organizing culture and in rallying passionate volunteers and political operatives.
About First Draft
First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com .
Politics Newsletter
We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.

