May 26, 2015
Updated  7:09 p.m.
Dodgers third baseman Juan Uribe might still be traded to the Atlanta Braves. File photo
LOS ANGELES -- A trade that would send Dodgers third baseman Juan Uribe to the Atlanta Braves for Alberto Callaspo appears to be back on despite Callaspo originally vetoing the deal.
For the second night in a row at Dodger Stadium, Callaspo was in the lineup as the Braves' starting third baseman only to be scratched at the last minute. This time, the Braves went the unusual route of posting on the team's official Twitter account that Callaspo had been "scratched due to trade talks being revisited."
Callaspo cannot be traded before June 15 without his consent because he signed as a free agent with the Braves last winter. He was scratched from the Braves' lineup before Monday's game. After the game, Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez revealed that Callapso had been scratched because a trade was pending.
Dodgers officials would not comment on the trade. But Callaspo told reporters before Tuesday's game that he vetoed the trade because he liked the Braves and his teammates and hoped to stay with them all season.
That seems like a  longshot regardless of the outcome of the on-and-off negotiations with the Dodgers.
Signed for one year at $3 million, Callaspo, 32, is batting .206 with only one extra-base hit (a home run) in 37 games. The Dodgers might get another chance to acquire him -- the Braves are likely to designate him for assignment when third baseman Chris Johnson returns from the DL later this week. Johnson is currently on an injury-rehabilitation assignment with Triple-A Gwinnett.
It is unclear how much farther the deal would go. The Dodgers reportedly would have received some minor-league pitching in the original trade and might have sent along a minor-leaguer to the Braves as well. The Braves also have two competitive-balance picks that can be traded. The Dodgers acquired one competitive-balance pick from the Baltimore Orioles earlier this season.
Uribe, meanwhile, has become marginalized in the Dodgers' plans with the emergence of Alex Guerrero and the continued strong play of Justin Turner. Uribe, 36, is hitting .247 with one home run in the final year of his contract with the Dodgers.
"It's just a matter of respecting their decision," Uribe said through an interpreter before the game. "I have no emotions over it.
"You never know what happens in this game. If I play on another team, then I play on another team."
Most popular
Comments are encouraged, but you must follow our User Agreement
Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial     slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about     tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to     allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to     republish your name and comment in additional Register publications     without any notification or payment.
Business Directory

