Jonh Farrell: Starter must mix it up
Photo by: 
AP photo
BRIGHT SPOT: Rusney Castillo makes a diving catch in the eighth inning of the Red Sox’ loss to the Twins last night in Minneapolis.
1
MINNEAPOLIS — The meeting lasted longer than Joe Kelly did.
One day after getting rocked for seven runs in 12⁄3 innings against the Minnesota Twins, Kelly was called into manager John Farrell’s office to review what went wrong. And while the Red Sox appear to have decided to keep Kelly in the rotation, Farrell and pitching coach Carl Willis delivered a clear message to the struggling right-hander in a closed-door session that went on for nearly 20 minutes.
To be effective, Kelly must use his curveball more often.
“I contend and strongly believe that his curveball is a major weapon that’s got to be used in his pitch mix,” Farrell said, pointing to a May 21 start against the Texas Rangers in which Kelly offset his blazing fastball with an effective breaking pitch. “He made a very tangible adjustment after three innings of work (in that start) when he went to his curveball more than his slider and slowed them down and had some quick and efficient innings. It’s part of the education process of Joe as a pitcher, what makes him most effective.”
To be fair, Kelly didn’t have much chance to establish his offspeed pitches against the Twins, a fastball-hitting team that jumped on fastballs early in counts. In fact, Kelly threw only 52 pitches to 14 batters, nine of whom reached base.
In those cases, Farrell suggested Kelly might have to trust his curveball earlier in the game rather than later. According to Pitchf/X data, Kelly threw only one curveball against the Twins, compared to nine sliders, two changeups and 40 fastballs, and after the game, rookie catcher Blake Swihart took the blame for not having a better read on the effectiveness of Kelly’s stuff.
“He walks into a team that is confident. They’ve proven they’re going to come out and strike early,” Farrell said. “He really never had a chance to settle in or slow them down at all. They dictated the tempo (Monday) rather than the reverse of that. The one thing that we continually try to point out to Joe is he’s learning himself as a pitcher and what makes him most effective. (Monday) there were a number of balls that leaked back to the middle of the plate that he paid for.”
Kelly is scheduled to pitch Saturday night in Texas. But with a 6.24 ERA in nine starts and options that would allow him to be sent to the minors without being exposed to waivers, it would seem Kelly has a shorter leash than ever.
With knuckleballer Steven Wright already in the rotation and right-hander Justin Masterson still on the disabled list because of shoulder tendinitis, the top options to take Kelly’s place are lefty prospects Eddie Rodriguez and Brian Johnson, both of whom are at Triple-A Pawtucket.
Rusney’s a catch
One bright spot from the Red Sox’ 2-1 loss to the Twins: Right fielder Rusney Castillo made a pair of sparkling diving catches that stole hits from Kurt Suzuki in the sixth and eighth innings. . . .
Backup catcher Sandy Leon notched a pair of singles, his first multi-hit game since he recorded three hits April 13 against Washington. . . .
The Red Sox have scored 14 runs in their last eight road games, during which they have gone 3-5.
Eye on Cueto
Good news for the Cincinnati Reds — and any team that might have interest in trading for ace Johnny Cueto, including the Red Sox: An MRI exam revealed no tears or structural damage to his elbow, according to reports out of Cincinnati.
Cueto reportedly is expected to play catch today, at which point the Reds will have a better idea of when he might return to their rotation.
Eligible for free agency after the season, the right-hander is 3-4 with a 3.03 ERA in nine starts. The Reds were 18-26, 101⁄2 games out of first place in the NL Central, entering play last night. It’s believed they might be compelled to trade Cueto but probably not until after they host the All-Star Game in July.
Left seems right
Farrell said he “wouldn’t be surprised” if switch-hitting third baseman Pablo Sandoval continues to hit exclusively from the left side of the plate, even against left-handed pitchers, although he said it ultimately will be “an in-game decision” and might vary depending on the situation.
Two weeks ago, Sandoval said he wasn’t thinking about ditching switch-hitting, even though he’s only 2-for-41 from the right side of the plate. But he told WEEI last night that he might reconsider because he’s still dealing with soreness in his left knee after being hit by a pitch last week.
On Sunday, Sandoval batted left-handed against Angels lefty reliever Cesar Ramos and got a hit. He did it again last night in the eighth inning.
A nod to Nap
A week ago, first baseman Mike Napoli was stuck in the worst slump of his career, a six-week slog that left him so far from the .200 mark that he could barely even see it.
Now, he’s the reigning AL Player of the Week.
In baseball, your fortunes can change that quickly. Napoli was recognized for a six-game stretch in which he was 9-for-21 (.429) with five homers, 10 RBI and six runs scored against the Rangers and Angels, his former teams.
“No one likes hitting .150 for a month and a half,” said Napoli, who credited a video session with second baseman Dustin Pedroia for his turnaround. “It was frustrating. But for me, the frustration was coming because I felt so good. I’m healthy. I’m energized. But I feel good now, figured something out to where if I do get in a rut, I know where to get back to. I’m just going to try to maintain this feeling.”
More On:
© Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.

