To search in site, type your keyword and hit enter
Close
Vladimir Putin We have one Fatherland, one people and a common future
US Senator Bob Menendez is likely facing a legal fight that will be long and expensive and his allies are planning a coordinated public relations campaign on his behalf. Menendez is being charged with accepting $1 million in campaign donations in exchange for political favors from his longtime friend. Menendez pleaded not guilty to these charges.
Since this news came out, supporters began to work behind the scenes. After the 14 count indictment came in, reporter’s boxes started receiving statements supporting Menendez’s not guilty plea. The releases include the hashtag #StandWithBob and promoted the Twitter account, @StandWithBob that by Thursday already had more than 70 tweets.
They have gathered up positive statements and posted them to a website, istandwithbob along with news coverage on the case and the video of Menendez responding to his charges. This website is being paid for by Menendez’ Senate campaign and is asking for donations. According to the federal campaign files, this committee has $1.45 million cash on hand.
Steven Sandberg, a spokesman for the Menendez committee, reported the outpouring of support from elected Democrats were organic. He says they are willing to take all the support and post the positive statements that people are offering. He acknowledged they were prepared for the indictment as well as the Senator, and are prepared to mount a fight.
Michael Soliman, a longtime adviser for Menendez who worked as the senator’s state director has orchestrated much of the support. Soliman also managed Menendez’s 2012 re-election campaign, and is currently working for the firm, Mercury Public Affairs. He stated calls came in immediately after the indictment from supporters. They were swamped and overwhelmed with phone calls stating outrage over the indictment and wanting to express support for the senator.
Soliman says the efforts will continue and the website will continue to post officials statements, provide quotes and press clippings as they continue to support the senator through this struggle. There is also a FaceBook page set up by a supporter, George Kasimos. Kasimos promoted a rally supporting Menendez as he told how the senator helped the victims of Superstorm Sandy.
Have You Read?
April 4, 2015
eight − 3 =
Political Thoughts
April 4, 2015
-->

