 
By Elise Viebeck - 04/03/15 08:41 AM EDT
China opposes a new U.S. sanctions regime targeting hackers and cybercriminals, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said Thursday.
Speaking to reporters in Beijing, Hua Chunying suggested that the announcement of a new sanctions framework by President Obama was an affront to China.
ADVERTISEMENT
“Cybersecurity concerns the common interests of all countries,” Hua said, according to Xinhua.
“The international community should jointly solve the issue of cyberattacks through dialogue and cooperation, and based on mutual respect and trust.”
Obama declared cyberattacks a “national emergency” on Wednesday and said his administration will step up punishment for hackers who inflict damage on U.S. institutions.
The executive order allows the Treasury Department to freeze the assets of individuals and entities involved in significant and malicious cyber activity against the United States.
China fits into this category, according to security experts, though the White House did not mention it during the announcement.
Treasury officials are already empowered to issue country-specific sanctions; the new regime is targeted at malicious cyber activity that might not be related to a nation state.
The comments by Hua underscore the tensions that exist between the United States and China on cyber issues.
Just in the last two weeks, Internet free speech activists have accused China of seeking to shut down GitHub, the popular U.S. coding site, through denial-of-service attacks.
1 day
IRS chief to GOP: You can't... GOP could call agency "something other than the IRS if that made you feel...
Indiana pizzeria closes after... Memories Pizza had said it would not cater gay weddings, provoking a fury. 
Menendez charges put Iran... The Foreign Relations Committee is set to vote April 14 on a bill he co-...
Hillary approval ratings slip... Hillary Clinton’s email problems are taking a bite out of her approval...
Bachmann compares Obama to... The former rep called the president "a deranged pilot flying his entire...
Indiana pizza shop refuses to... Memories Pizza is the first business to say it would deny service under...
Kevin Spacey: Bill Clinton backs... “Kevin, 99 percent of what you do on that show is real.”
McConnell warns countries against... Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) told foreign countries to...
Indiana governor in crisis mode Gov. Mike Pence has been forced to walk a tight line.
Senator: 'Walk away' from Iran... Sen. Tom Cotton said Congress should "act immediately" to approve new...
Arkansas governor says he won't... Gov. Hutchinson is "asking the Legislature to take a look at this bill."
Anti-ObamaCare GOP governors... Walker, Christie, Jindal and Perry all saw their states get a windfall.
Five obstacles facing GOP in... Differences on defense spending, reconciliation and more will have to be...
Wake up, Democrats — Koch empire... The Libre Initiative is tasked with convincing Hispanics to vote against...
Judiciary chairman: Clinton likely... Sen. Chuck Grassley said the former secretary of State "probably" violated...
O'Malley takes the gloves off A handful of Democrats are mulling a challenge to Clinton, but only one is...
Email Alerts *

