Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Obama: Climate change impact on health is personal
President Obama says he and other parents have a personal stake in how climate change threatens public health, saying he once had to rush his daughter to the hospital with an asthma attack. "Well you know
Post to Facebook
Obama: Climate change impact on health is personal President Obama says he and other parents have a personal stake in how climate change threatens public health, saying he once had to rush his daughter to the hospital with an asthma attack. "Well you know Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1ycI4GR
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
2
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Obama: Climate change impact on health is personal
President Obama
Tags
President Obama says he and other parents have a personal stake in how climate change threatens public health, saying he once had to rush his daughter to the hospital with an asthma attack.
"Well, you know, Malia had asthma when she was 4 and because we had good health insurance, we were able to knock it out early," Obama told ABC News . "And if we can make sure that our responses to the environment are reducing those incidents, that's something that I think every parent would wish for."
Obama's comments came during a string of interviews he did after a Tuesday event at Howard University, discussing a project to examine the effects of climate change on public health.
"Keep in mind that climate change is just one more example of how the environment will cause health problems, and I think most people understand that," Obama told ABC News.
The president noted that when he attended college in the Los Angeles area in the late 1970s, he could feel the smog and pollution in his lungs.
"We took steps to deal with it, and today, it's not perfect, but it's a whole lot better," the president told ABC. "And the same thing is true with climate change."
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1ycI4GR
USA NOW
Family: Would S.C. cop face murder charge with no video?
Apr 08, 2015

