Asian shares edge down on United States rate hike bets
Contributed by admin on May 26, 2015 at 8:08 pm
Treasuries have been on a downward trajectory for most of the month, but that may likely continue for the rest of May, as Federal Reserve Chair Janet L. Yellen said that variables such as a stronger U.S. economy and tighter Fed standards may result in continued bondlosses.
“For this reason, if the economy continues to improve as I expect, I think it will be appropriate at some point this year to take the initial step to raise the federal funds rate target, ” and begin normalizing monetary policy, Yellen told the Providence Chamber of Commerce.
Friday’s data indicated the gauge of U.S. Labor Department on basic prices of consumer goods were up by 0.3 pct last month, sending the year-on-year increase to 1.8 pct, the largest since October.
The US dollar index, which measures the greenback against a basket of currencies, touched its highest in almost four weeks as investors became more confident that a strengthening US economy would lead to US interest rate hikes this year.
While markets largely expect the first rate hike in September, it will be determined by data and not by date, he said.
While cautioning that such forecasting is always highly uncertain, and citing room for improvement in the labor market, the Fed chief said delaying a policy tightening until employment and inflation hit the central bank’s targets risked overheating the economy.
In a speech to a business group in Providence, Rhode Island, Yellen said she expected economic data to strengthen, and noted that some of the weakness at the start of the year might be due to “statistical noise”.
The dollar was slightly higher against its Japanese counterpart at 121.63 yen, trading at its highest levels since mid-March. Minutes from its April meeting released earlier this week all but ruled out a rate increase next month.
Yellen went further in signaling her expectation of when the first rate hike would come. Many in the markets had expected the economy to expand at a healthy pace and for the Fed to raise interest rates, a move that would make the dollar attractive while central banks in Japan and the eurozone were still easing policy.
Yellen didn’t mention the inflation report in her remarks. She adds that households are seeing the benefits of improving jobs situations, consumer confidence has been solid, and the drop in oil prices encouraged household purchasing power.
Recent Posts
Copyright © 2015 Rapid News Network. All Rights Reserved.

