Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges.
Post to Facebook
FIFA officials arrested on corruption charges at request of U.S. Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvunRz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
10
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FIFA officials arrested on corruption charges at request of U.S.
Martin Rogers , USA TODAY Sports 3:33 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
FIFA president Sepp Blatter now finds his organization in a scandal following the arrest of six officials on corruption charges.
(Photo: Fabrice Coffrini, AFP/Getty Images)
NEW YORK – FIFA, world soccer's governing body, was rocked by a dramatic scandal on Wednesday after six officials were arrested in Switzerland and face extradition to the United States on suspicion of federal corruption charges.
The arrests were made at the Baur au Lac hotel in Zurich, the Swiss city where FIFA's annual meeting will take place later this week, by plain-clothed officers representing Switzerland's Federal Office of Justice. According to the FOJ, the action was taken at the specific request of American legal authorities following an investigation led by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York.
"The FOJ's arrest warrants were issued further to a request by the U.S. authorities," read the FOJ's statement, which claimed investigators suspect the illegal dispersal of more than $100 million in "bribes and kickbacks" involving media, marketing and sponsorship rights dating as far back as the early 1990s.
Among those arrested, according to the BBC, was Jeffrey Webb – president of FIFA's CONCACAF confederation – which has headquarters in New York and Miami and includes the United States among its members.
U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, FBI director James Comey and IRS criminal chief Richard Weber were expected to announce the extent of the criminal case in Brooklyn on Wednesday morning, according to the Wall Street Journal.
FIFA has long struggled to shake off accusations of corruption, but the American case appears to be the largest and most wide-ranging investigation into the financial dealings of the governing body.
While a FIFA spokesman swiftly insisted that there were no allegations against the organization's controversial president, Sepp Blatter, this could hardly have come at a worse time for the 79-year-old, who is expected to be elected for a fifth time on Friday.
"(Blatter) is not involved at all," FIFA spokesman Walter De Gregorio said.
However, hours after the arrests, members of FIFA's executive committee met to discuss how to proceed in the aftermath of the scandal as its reputation took another battering.
FIFA was already mired in controversy following allegations of corruption surrounding the awarding of hosting rights to the 2018 World Cup in Russia and the 2022 tournament in Qatar.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


Blatter shrugs off Figo dictator jibe as election nears
ZURICH (Reuters) - FIFA president Sepp Blatter shrugged off Luis Figo's accusation he had turned world football's ruling body into a dictatorship as the election campaign moved towards its final stages on Tuesday.
Former world player of the year Figo, 42, of Portugal, fired a parting shot when withdrawing his presidential candidacy last week, saying Blatter was a dictator and the election was nothing more than a plebiscite, meaning it was not a fair and open contest.
The 79-year-old Swiss, arriving at a Zurich hotel for a meeting with delegates from the CONCACAF confederation which comprises north and central American countries and the Caribbean islands, briefly spoke to reporters before being hurried inside the building.
"Luis Figo is free to say what he wants to say. He is a free man, he is a footballer," said Blatter.
"I have received so many titles but I still have the title of FIFA president at least until six o'clock on Friday."
Blatter is likely to have the title a lot earlier on Friday as the vote is expected in the middle of the afternoon when FIFA's 209-member nations choose between him and Prince Ali bin Al Hussein of Jordan.
Michael van Praag, chairman of the Dutch FA, also pulled out of the election last week and Blatter is the overwhelming favourite to win a fifth term of office and see off the challenge from the 39-year-old Jordanian royal.
On Tuesday, the Asian Football Confederation and CONCACAF signed a Memorandum of Understanding aimed at strengthening bonds between the two confederations.
The main focus of the agreement is in two areas of "knowledge-sharing" and competitions.
Among their ideas is that national or club teams from the two regions could take part in competitions against each other in the future.
AFC president Shaikh Salman of Bahrain said in a statement: "The two confederations have many common features and we look forward to closely working together."
CONCACAF president Jeffrey Webb added: "Formalising this strategic partnership is mutually beneficial and enables our confederations to share in each other's visions of advancing the sport."
A number of meetings are planned during the build-up to Friday's vote including one by New FIFA Now, the anti-Blatter reform group, on Wednesday.
(Editing by Tony Jimenez)
You May Be Interested

