Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges.
Post to Facebook
FIFA officials arrested on corruption charges at request of U.S. Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvunRz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
10
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FIFA officials arrested on corruption charges at request of U.S.
Martin Rogers , USA TODAY Sports 3:33 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
FIFA president Sepp Blatter now finds his organization in a scandal following the arrest of six officials on corruption charges.
(Photo: Fabrice Coffrini, AFP/Getty Images)
NEW YORK – FIFA, world soccer's governing body, was rocked by a dramatic scandal on Wednesday after six officials were arrested in Switzerland and face extradition to the United States on suspicion of federal corruption charges.
The arrests were made at the Baur au Lac hotel in Zurich, the Swiss city where FIFA's annual meeting will take place later this week, by plain-clothed officers representing Switzerland's Federal Office of Justice. According to the FOJ, the action was taken at the specific request of American legal authorities following an investigation led by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York.
"The FOJ's arrest warrants were issued further to a request by the U.S. authorities," read the FOJ's statement, which claimed investigators suspect the illegal dispersal of more than $100 million in "bribes and kickbacks" involving media, marketing and sponsorship rights dating as far back as the early 1990s.
Among those arrested, according to the BBC, was Jeffrey Webb – president of FIFA's CONCACAF confederation – which has headquarters in New York and Miami and includes the United States among its members.
U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, FBI director James Comey and IRS criminal chief Richard Weber were expected to announce the extent of the criminal case in Brooklyn on Wednesday morning, according to the Wall Street Journal.
FIFA has long struggled to shake off accusations of corruption, but the American case appears to be the largest and most wide-ranging investigation into the financial dealings of the governing body.
While a FIFA spokesman swiftly insisted that there were no allegations against the organization's controversial president, Sepp Blatter, this could hardly have come at a worse time for the 79-year-old, who is expected to be elected for a fifth time on Friday.
"(Blatter) is not involved at all," FIFA spokesman Walter De Gregorio said.
However, hours after the arrests, members of FIFA's executive committee met to discuss how to proceed in the aftermath of the scandal as its reputation took another battering.
FIFA was already mired in controversy following allegations of corruption surrounding the awarding of hosting rights to the 2018 World Cup in Russia and the 2022 tournament in Qatar.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
FIFA Officials Arrested on Corruption Charges; Blatter Isn’t Among Them
Photo
FIFA officials were escorted out behind sheets at the Baur au Lac hotel in Zurich. Credit Pascal Mora for The New York Times
Advertisement
ZURICH — Swiss authorities conducted an extraordinary early-morning operation here Wednesday to arrest several top soccer officials and extradite them to the United States on federal corruption charges.
As leaders of FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, gathered for their annual meeting, more than a dozen plain-clothed Swiss law enforcement officials arrived unannounced at the Baur au Lac hotel, an elegant five-star property with views of the Alps and Lake Zurich. They went to the front desk to get keys and proceeded upstairs to the rooms.
The arrests were carried out peacefully. One FIFA official, Eduardo Li of Costa Rica, was led by the authorities from his room to a side-door exit of the hotel. He was allowed to bring his luggage, which was adorned with FIFA logos.
The indictment names 14 people on charges including racketeering, wire fraud and money laundering conspiracy. In addition to senior soccer officials, the indictment is also expected to name sports-marketing executives from the United States and South America who are accused of paying more than $150 million in bribes and kickbacks in exchange for media deals associated with major soccer tournaments, according to one government official briefed on the matter.
The law enforcement official said the soccer officials charged are Jeffrey Webb, Eugenio Figueredo, Jack Warner, Eduardo Li, Julio Rocha, Costas Takkas, Rafael Esquivel, José Maria Marin and Nicolás Leoz.
Charges were also expected against the sports-marketing executives Alejandro Burzaco, Aaron Davidson, Hugo Jinkis and Mariano Jinkis. Authorities also charged José Margulies as an intermediary who facilitated illegal payments.
“We’re struck by just how long this went on for and how it touched nearly every part of what FIFA did,” said a law enforcement official. “It just seemed to permeate every element of the federation and was just their way of doing business. It seems like this corruption was institutionalized.”
The Justice Department, the F.B.I. and FIFA did not have any immediate comment.
The arrests were a startling blow to FIFA, a multibillion-dollar organization that governs the world’s most popular sport but has been plagued by accusations of bribery for decades.
The inquiry is also a major threat to Sepp Blatter, FIFA’s longtime president who is generally recognized as the most powerful person in sports, though he was not charged. He has for years acted as a de facto head of state. Politicians, star players, national soccer officials and global corporations that want their brands attached to the sport have long genuflected before him.
Photo
The arrests were carried out peacefully, with at least two men being ushered out of the hotel without handcuffs. Credit Pascal Mora for The New York Times
An election, seemingly pre-ordained to give Mr. Blatter a fifth term as president, is scheduled for Friday.
The case is the most significant yet for United States Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch, who took office last month. She previously served as the United States attorney in Brooklyn, where she supervised the FIFA investigation. Ms. Lynch and F.B.I. Director James Comey were expected to hold a news conference on Wednesday morning in New York.
Advertisement
With more than $1.5 billion in reserves, FIFA is as much a global financial conglomerate as a sports organization. With countries around the world competing aggressively to win the bid to host the World Cup, Mr. Blatter has commanded the fealty of anyone who wanted a piece of that revenue stream. He and FIFA have weathered corruption controversies in the past, but none involved charges of federal crimes in United States court.
United States law gives the Justice Department wide authority to bring cases against foreign nationals living abroad, an authority that prosecutors have used repeatedly in international terrorism cases. Those cases can hinge on the slightest connection to the United States, like the use of an American bank or Internet service provider.
Photo
Jack Warner, a former FIFA vice president, is among those expected to face charges in the United States. Credit Luis Acosta/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
Switzerland’s treaty with the United States is unusual in that it gives Swiss authorities the power to refuse extradition for tax crimes, but on matters of general criminal law, the Swiss have agreed to turn people over for prosecution in American courts.
Critics of FIFA point to the lack of transparency regarding executive salaries and resource allocations for an organization that, by its own admission, had revenue of $5.7 billion from 2011 to 2014. Policy decisions are also often taken without debate or explanation, and a small group of officials — known as the executive committee — operates with outsize power. FIFA has for years functioned with little oversight and even less transparency. Alexandra Wrage, a governance consultant who once unsuccessfully attempted to help overhaul FIFA’s methods, famously labeled the organization “byzantine and impenetrable.”
Law enforcement officials said much of the inquiry involves Concacaf, one of the six regional confederations that compose FIFA. Concacaf — which stands for Confederation of North, Central America and Caribbean Association Football — includes major countries like the United States and Mexico, and also tiny ones like Barbados and Montserrat.
According to the indictment, several international soccer events were tainted by bribes and kickbacks involving media and marketing rights: World Cup qualifiers in the Concacaf region; the Gold Cup; the Concacaf Champions League; the Copa América; and the Copa Libertadores. The indictment also claims that bribes and kickbacks were found in connection with the selection of the host country for the 2010 World Cup.
Concacaf was led from 1990 to 2011 by Mr. Warner, the longtime head of Trinidad & Tobago’s federation. A key powerbroker in FIFA’s governing executive committee, Mr. Warner had been dogged by accusations of corruption. He was accused of illegally profiting from the resale of tickets to the 2006 World Cup, and of withholding the bonuses of the Trinidad players who participated in that tournament.
Photo
Jeffrey Webb, left, the president of Concacaf, with FIFA’s president, Sepp Blatter, during the Concacaf U-17 championships in 2013. Credit Arnulfo Franco/Associated Press
Mr. Warner resigned his positions in FIFA, Concacaf and his national association in 2011 amid mounting evidence that he had been part of an attempt to buy the votes of Caribbean federation officials in the 2010 FIFA presidential election. A 2013 Concacaf report also found that he had received tens of millions of dollars in misappropriated funds.
But according to the rules of FIFA at the time, Mr. Warner’s resignation led to the immediate closure of all ethics committee cases against him. “The presumption of innocence is maintained,” FIFA said in a short statement announcing his departure.
Michael S. Schmidt and Sam Borden reported from Zurich; Matt Apuzzo from Washington; and William K. Rashbaum from New York.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Arrests Sweep Governing Body of Global Soccer. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...

