Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges.
Post to Facebook
FIFA officials arrested on corruption charges at request of U.S. Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvunRz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
10
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FIFA officials arrested on corruption charges at request of U.S.
Martin Rogers , USA TODAY Sports 3:33 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
FIFA president Sepp Blatter now finds his organization in a scandal following the arrest of six officials on corruption charges.
(Photo: Fabrice Coffrini, AFP/Getty Images)
NEW YORK – FIFA, world soccer's governing body, was rocked by a dramatic scandal on Wednesday after six officials were arrested in Switzerland and face extradition to the United States on suspicion of federal corruption charges.
The arrests were made at the Baur au Lac hotel in Zurich, the Swiss city where FIFA's annual meeting will take place later this week, by plain-clothed officers representing Switzerland's Federal Office of Justice. According to the FOJ, the action was taken at the specific request of American legal authorities following an investigation led by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York.
"The FOJ's arrest warrants were issued further to a request by the U.S. authorities," read the FOJ's statement, which claimed investigators suspect the illegal dispersal of more than $100 million in "bribes and kickbacks" involving media, marketing and sponsorship rights dating as far back as the early 1990s.
Among those arrested, according to the BBC, was Jeffrey Webb – president of FIFA's CONCACAF confederation – which has headquarters in New York and Miami and includes the United States among its members.
U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, FBI director James Comey and IRS criminal chief Richard Weber were expected to announce the extent of the criminal case in Brooklyn on Wednesday morning, according to the Wall Street Journal.
FIFA has long struggled to shake off accusations of corruption, but the American case appears to be the largest and most wide-ranging investigation into the financial dealings of the governing body.
While a FIFA spokesman swiftly insisted that there were no allegations against the organization's controversial president, Sepp Blatter, this could hardly have come at a worse time for the 79-year-old, who is expected to be elected for a fifth time on Friday.
"(Blatter) is not involved at all," FIFA spokesman Walter De Gregorio said.
However, hours after the arrests, members of FIFA's executive committee met to discuss how to proceed in the aftermath of the scandal as its reputation took another battering.
FIFA was already mired in controversy following allegations of corruption surrounding the awarding of hosting rights to the 2018 World Cup in Russia and the 2022 tournament in Qatar.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


FIFA officials arrested in Zurich hotel raid
27/05/2015
© Rudavin | Dreamstime.com – Official FIFA 2014 World Cup Ball Photo
According to the New York Times plain-clothed Swiss police officers arrived unannounced at the five star Baur au Lac hotel in Zurich where FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association) officials were staying. The officers went to the officials’ rooms to arrest them. The operation was carried out peacefully.
The Swiss Federal Office of Justice (FOJ) released a statement which said that six soccer functionaries had been arrested after United States authorities in New York had requested their arrest.  The BBC said Seth Blatter is not understood to be 0ne of them.
Leaders of FIFA, football’s global governing body had gathered in Zurich for their annual meeting.
The charges allege wide ranging corruption in FIFA over many years.
The US Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York is investigating these individuals on suspicion of accepting bribes and kick-backs since the early 1990s. The bribery suspects include representatives of sports media and sports promotion firms. They are alleged to have been involved in schemes to make payments to the soccer functionaries – delegates of FIFA and other functionaries of FIFA sub-organizations – totaling more than USD 100 million. In return, it is believed that they received media, marketing, and sponsorship rights in connection with soccer tournaments in Latin America. According to the US request, these crimes were agreed and prepared in the US, and payments were carried out via US banks.
The Zurich Cantonal Police will question those arrested before US extradition procedures begin.
For more stories like this on Switzerland follow us on Facebook
Related Posts




http://www.lenews.ch/2015/05/27/fifa-officials-arrested-in-zurich-hotel-raid/">
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

