Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges.
Post to Facebook
FIFA officials arrested on corruption charges at request of U.S. Officials arrested in Zurich face extradition to U.S. on federal charges. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HvunRz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
10
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FIFA officials arrested on corruption charges at request of U.S.
Martin Rogers , USA TODAY Sports 3:33 a.m. EDT May 27, 2015
FIFA president Sepp Blatter now finds his organization in a scandal following the arrest of six officials on corruption charges.
(Photo: Fabrice Coffrini, AFP/Getty Images)
NEW YORK – FIFA, world soccer's governing body, was rocked by a dramatic scandal on Wednesday after six officials were arrested in Switzerland and face extradition to the United States on suspicion of federal corruption charges.
The arrests were made at the Baur au Lac hotel in Zurich, the Swiss city where FIFA's annual meeting will take place later this week, by plain-clothed officers representing Switzerland's Federal Office of Justice. According to the FOJ, the action was taken at the specific request of American legal authorities following an investigation led by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York.
"The FOJ's arrest warrants were issued further to a request by the U.S. authorities," read the FOJ's statement, which claimed investigators suspect the illegal dispersal of more than $100 million in "bribes and kickbacks" involving media, marketing and sponsorship rights dating as far back as the early 1990s.
Among those arrested, according to the BBC, was Jeffrey Webb – president of FIFA's CONCACAF confederation – which has headquarters in New York and Miami and includes the United States among its members.
U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, FBI director James Comey and IRS criminal chief Richard Weber were expected to announce the extent of the criminal case in Brooklyn on Wednesday morning, according to the Wall Street Journal.
FIFA has long struggled to shake off accusations of corruption, but the American case appears to be the largest and most wide-ranging investigation into the financial dealings of the governing body.
While a FIFA spokesman swiftly insisted that there were no allegations against the organization's controversial president, Sepp Blatter, this could hardly have come at a worse time for the 79-year-old, who is expected to be elected for a fifth time on Friday.
"(Blatter) is not involved at all," FIFA spokesman Walter De Gregorio said.
However, hours after the arrests, members of FIFA's executive committee met to discuss how to proceed in the aftermath of the scandal as its reputation took another battering.
FIFA was already mired in controversy following allegations of corruption surrounding the awarding of hosting rights to the 2018 World Cup in Russia and the 2022 tournament in Qatar.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52


Fifa executives arrested in US corruption investigation: live
Updates as Swiss police raids five-star hotel in Zurich as Fifa members gather    for presidential election
30000
Latest
- Six arrested in dawn raids at Zurich hotel including Fifa vice-president Jeffrey Webb
- 14 executives and officials arrested overall
- Sepp Blatter has NOT been arrested
09.01
Do you know who this man is? A different camera angle of one of the men taken away this morning. The hotel sheet couldn't cover all angles.
Can't make this up, actual scene witnessed in hallway of hotel: Soccer official 1: "Como estas?" Soccer official 2: "Nervioso."
08.49
Fifa presidential candidate Prince Ali bin al-Hussein has released a statement in regards to the arrests.
Prince Ali Bin Al Hussein, a Sandhurst-educated son of the late King Hussein of Jordan, announced his bid to unseat Blatter earlier this year.
Today is a sad day for football. Clearly this is a developing story, the details of which are still emerging. It would not be appropriate to comment further at this time.”
Prince Ali bin al-Hussein is challenging Sepp Blatter for the Fifa presidency
08.38
England are now sixth favourites to host the 2022 World Cup following today's developments with the USA among the leading pack to replace Qatar. Ladbrokes have the 1994 hosts at 3/1 to stage the tournament.
Who will host the 2022 World Cup? Here are the latest odds: Qatar 1/6, USA 3/1, Australia 8/1, Germany 12/1, South Korea 25/1, England 25/1, Japan 33/1.
The Qatar bid has been tainted by allegations of bribery and corruption
08.25
The media have doubled in number outside Hotel Baur Au Lac awaiting any developments. It has been suggested that director of communications and public affairs Walter De Gregorio will front the press conference later.
08.15
BREAKING: Fifa will hold a press conference at 10am to clarify the situation.
07.59
One of the men arrested, Uruguay's Eugenio Figueredo was outspoken over the Luis Suarez biting scandal at the World Cup last summer.
Figueredo tried to get Suarez's four-month ban for biting Italy's Giorgio Chiellini reduced - to no avail.
He said after Suarez was handed his ban.
"When a little more time has passed we are going to look at how, politically, this punishment can be softened a little."
07.46
More names have emerged of who has been arrested. The New York Times says that aside from Jeffrey Webb, Eugenio Figueredo and Jack Warner, Eduardo Li, Julio Rocha, Costas Takkas, Rafael Esquivel, José Maria Marin and Nicolás Leoz are also implicated.
Charges are also expected against sports-marketing executives Alejandro Burzaco, Aaron Davidson, Hugo Jinkis and Mariano Jinkis.
It is also claimed that US authorities have also charged José Margulies as an intermediary who facilitated illegal payments.
What now for Fifa following latest investigation?
07.38
Diego Maradona wrote a column in the Telegraph only three days of how Fifa is a playground for the corrupt.
All these corruption investigations are bleeding the life out of Fifa, and international football is drowning in a sea of contempt. Few sports in history have suffered the bad press football has faced in recent years and much of that press is owed to Blatter.
Key sponsors like Continental, Castrol and Johnson & Johnson are running away from Fifa. The Council of Europe has condemned Blatter’s handling of the collapse of ISL and over $100 million in losses. The FBI is looking at the handling of the US bid for 2022. There have been hundreds of media articles on massive financial losses, mismanagement and bribery.
We need young and creative leadership at Fifa – the kind of leadership that is inclusive and open to new ideas. We need a football culture, not a mafia culture.
Why are we all just passively accepting this corruption? Enough is enough. We want our game back.
07.30
Images of the plain-clothes Swiss police raiding the hotel have emerged on social media. Some of the arrests were even captured on camera - although those members have had their identities covered up - by hotel sheets.
FIFA officials were escorted out behind sheets at the Baur au Lac hotel in Zurich http://t.co/LCuxIyugth pic.twitter.com/1M8SuQMSUu
Picture of plainclothes Swiss police showing documents to FIFA hotel clerk: pic.twitter.com/LVV8Ai9hxt
Swiss Plain clothes Police at Swiss hotel where they walked to Top FIFA officials rooms and made arrests today pic.twitter.com/0FWreKoAXR
07.22
The Telegraph's own investigation into corruption into the bidding process for the 2022 Qatar World Cup discovered Jack Warner and his family were paid almost £1.2m from a Qatari firm close to the country's successful bid for the prestigious competition.
A senior Fifa official and his family were paid almost $2 million (£1.2m) from a Qatari firm linked to the country’s successful bid for the 2022 World Cup, The Telegraph can disclose.
Jack Warner, the former vice-president of Fifa, appears to have been personally paid $1.2 million (£720,000) from a company controlled by a former Qatari football official shortly after the decision to award the country the tournament.
Payments totalling almost $750,000 (£450,000) were made to Mr Warner’s sons, documents show. A further $400,000 (£240,000) was paid to one of his employees.
It is understood that the FBI is now investigating Trinidad-based Mr Warner and his alleged links to the Qatari bid, and that the former Fifa official’s eldest son, who lives in Miami, has been helping the inquiry as a co-operating witness.
07.13
Our sports news correspondent Ben Rumsby is in Zurich and has been following the build up to the presidential elections. He has this update.
I am told six people were seized overnight. One of them is believed to be Fifa vice-president Jeffrey Webb, a man heavily tipped eventually to replace Sepp Blatter as president and even anointed as a potential successor by the Swiss.
I spoke to Webb along with a handful of other reporters for several minutes yesterday afternoon after Concacaf held a meeting at the luxury Renaissance Hotel in Zurich. He was relaxed and genial, showing no sign he knew what might be coming.
Fifa vice-president Jeffrey Webb is said to have been arrested as part of the investigation
07.05
It's unclear at this stage where this leaves Friday's presidential elections and what implications this could have on the future of the 2018 and 2022 World Cups in Russia and Qatar.
Sepp Blatter was due to address the media in a few hours time ahead of the elections but whether that now goes ahead remains up in the air.
Could there now be a request for Friday's election to be postponed, as FA tried unsuccessfully to do in 2011 amid corruption allegations?
The FIFA officials are now facing extradition to United States http://t.co/xDwr27M9iV pic.twitter.com/QIk1FxSe74
06.55
This is how the New York Times reported the arrests which includes details of another member alleged to have been caught up in the case.
The arrests were carried out peacefully, with at least two men being ushered out of the hotel without handcuffs. One agent carried what appeared to be evidence bags containing medication and money. One Fifa official, Eduardo Li of Costa Rica, was led by the authorities from his room to a side-door exit of the hotel. He was allowed to bring his luggage, which was adorned with Fifa logos.
06.45
The New York Times have named two current officials and one former member who have been arrested in the corruption investigation.
They are vice president of the executive committee Jeffrey Webb of the Cayman Islands, Uruguay's Eugenio Figueredo, who is also an executive committee vice president and until recently was the president of South America’s football association and Jack Warner of Trinidad and Tobago, a former member of the executive committee who has been accused of numerous ethical violations.
06.35
Morning all and welcome to rolling updates on the breaking news this morning that Swiss police have arrested several senior Fifa executives in an early-morning raid launched at the request of the US government, which intends to charge the football officials with corruption.
Police launched the extraordinary operation at the five-star Baur au Lac hotel in Zurich to arrest the Fifa officals and extradite them to the US to face criminal charges.
Early on Wednesday morning, Swiss officers went room to room to find their targets, the New York Times website reported.
Swiss agent just walked out of hotel with two bags of evidence
FIFA execs not being led out in handcuffs. Very peaceful. Hotel staff meanwhile is freaking out.
Members of football's governing body were meeting at the hotel to elect a new president, a process that takes place every four years.
US media reported that up to 14 executives could be arrested as part of the FBI investigation, which has been running since 2011. The charges against them include fraud, racketeering and money laundering and relate to World Cup bids as well as marketing and broadcast deals.
Officials said Fifa's powerful and secretive executive committee was targeted by the US investigation.
"We’re struck by just how long this went on for and how it touched nearly every part of what FIFA did,” a law enforcement official told the New York Times. “It just seemed to permeate every element of the federation and was just their way of doing business. It seems like this corruption was institutionalised.”
Fifa has been plagued by accusations of bribery for decades.
The arrests are a blow for Sepp Blatter, the current president who was expected to stand for re-election on Friday.
Blatter is not among those being charged, officials told CNN. However, officials seen as close to him are among those who will face charges, they said.
The raids come amid rising anger that the Zurich-based football body hasn’t done enough to curb a culture of wrongdoing amid a constant stream of corruption allegations that reached their peak with the awarding of the next two World Cups to Russia and Qatar.
Top Football Galleries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mark Ogden
Jason Burt
Chris Bascombe
Henry Winter
 

