Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Governor vetoes bill to abolish Neb. death penalty
LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) — Gov. Pete Ricketts vetoed a bill Tuesday that would make Nebraska the first traditionally conservative state in more than four decades to abolish the death penalty, sending it back to lawmakers who will attempt an override.
Post to Facebook
Governor vetoes bill to abolish Neb. death penalty LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) — Gov. Pete Ricketts vetoed a bill Tuesday that would make Nebraska the first traditionally conservative state in more than four decades to abolish the death penalty, sending it back to lawmakers who will attempt an override. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1Hv7Zro
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Governor vetoes bill to abolish Neb. death penalty
AP 8:16 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
Gov. Pete Ricketts speaks during a news conference Tuesday, accompanied by a group of state senators and other supporters, regarding his veto of a bill passed by the legislature that would repeal the death penalty in Nebraska.
(Photo: AP/Kristin Streff, Lincoln Journal Star)
1 CONNECT 7 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) — Gov. Pete Ricketts vetoed a bill Tuesday that would make Nebraska the first traditionally conservative state in more than four decades to abolish the death penalty, sending it back to lawmakers who will attempt an override.
Nebraska lawmakers passed the bill last week with a veto-proof, 32-15 majority. At least 30 senators are needed for the veto override scheduled for Wednesday afternoon, but the Republican governor has been talking to individual senators to try to keep the death penalty in place.
Nebraska hasn't executed a prisoner since 1997, when the electric chair was used. The state has never imposed the punishment under the lethal injection process now required by state law, and the state lost its ability to do so when a key lethal injection drug expired in December 2013. Ricketts announced this month that the state had purchased new drugs to resume executions, but the state hasn't yet received them and civil liberties groups are expected to challenge the purchases in court.
Ricketts reiterated his support for capital punishment during a Capitol news conference with law enforcement, Nebraskans whose relatives were killed by current death-row inmates, and 11 state senators who support the death penalty.
"Nebraskans expect their public officials to strengthen public safety, not weaken it," Ricketts said. Abolishing capital punishment "sends the message to criminals that Nebraska will be soft on crime."
Nebraska Attorney General Doug Peterson, a fellow Republican, said state officials should keep the death penalty for the most heinous of criminals. Peterson, who took office in January, said his office was committed to overcoming the legal hurdles to allow executions to proceed.
"Give us this opportunity now to show our commitment, to do everything we can to carry out the death penalty in Nebraska," Peterson said.
The state's action to repeal the death penalty is unusual because of its traditionally conservative leanings. Maryland was the last state to end capital punishment, in 2013. Three other moderate-to-liberal states have done so in recent years: New Mexico in 2009, Illinois in 2011 and Connecticut in 2012. The last traditionally conservative state to eliminate the death penalty was North Dakota in 1973.
Thirty-two states and the federal government allow capital punishment.
Nebraska lawmakers haven't passed a death penalty repeal bill since 1979. Senators at the time didn't have enough votes to override then-Gov. Charles Thone.
The bill's lead sponsor, independent Sen. Ernie Chambers of Omaha, has said he's confident the bill will maintain enough support for the override. Many senators argued that they oppose the ultimate punishment for religious reasons. Others said it was too costly and inefficient, and questioned whether government could be trusted to manage it.
But some lawmakers said they still believed the veto could be sustained — and at least one senator who previously voted for the repeal said Tuesday he had changed his mind.
"You wouldn't see an effort like this if all hope was lost," said Sen. Beau McCoy, an Omaha Republican who supports capital punishment.
Sen. Jerry Johnson, a Republican who voted for the repeal, said he decided to switch votes because he believes the new governor's administration needs more time to carry out an execution. Johnson said he took calls all weekend from constituents who support the death penalty.
If new problems arise in carrying out the punishment, Johnson said Nebraska's current senators will have another chance to repeal it when they return for next year's session.
The veto came two days after one of Nebraska's 11 death-row inmates died in prison of natural causes. Michael Ryan spent three decades on death row for the 1985 cult killings of two people, including a 5-year-old boy. During a legislative hearing earlier this year, Chambers testified that Ryan had been diagnosed with terminal brain cancer.
Vivian Tuttle, whose daughter Evonne was murdered in a 2002 bank robbery in Norfolk, said she still wants the three robbers executed. They were sentenced to death for the killings of five people in the bank.
__
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1Hv7Zro
TOP VIDEOS
May 26, 2015


0
0
0
0
The execution chamber at the Arizona State Prison Complex - Florence - HU9 is shown in a screen grab from a video provided on March 4, 2015. Legislators in Nebraska were considering an override of Gov. Pete Ricketts' veto of a bill that would repeal the state's death penalty. Reuters
Nebraska lawmakers Tuesday prepared to override Gov. Pete Ricketts' veto of a measure that would have made the Cornhusker state the first red state since 1973 to outlaw the death penalty. The Unicameral planned to hold the vote Wednesday, the Associated Press reported .
Lawmakers passed the bill last week by a veto-proof 32-15 vote. "We got 32 votes to end the death penalty, and if they follow their conscience, we should have no trouble with an override,” sponsor Sen. Ernie Chambers told the Los Angeles Times , adding Nebraskans have expressed concern about the number of recent exonerations.
But Ricketts said abolishing the death penalty would send a message Nebraska "will be soft on crime." He reportedly has been trying to convince senators to change sides. "Nebraskans expect their public officials to strengthen public safety, not weaken it," he told a news conference. "Under this bill, there is no guarantee that convicted murderers will stay behind bars for life or not harm other innocent victims."
Nebraska is one of 32 states with a death penalty, according to the Death Penalty Information Center . Since reinstating executions in 1973, it has put three people to death. Senators have introduced a bill to outlaw the practice in every legislative session since 1981.
Nebraska currently has 11 inmates on death row. The last execution was in 1997,  Agence France-Presse reported . “It’s been expensive, hasn’t been used, it won’t be used and doesn’t need to be in the statute," Sen. Colby Coash told MSNBC .
State Attorney General Doug Peterson is in favor of keeping capital punishment. Other politicians, like Sen. Jerry Johnson, told reporters they were undecided or had changed sides on repeal since pushing it through. Some cited cost; others referenced religion.
"I am Republican enough. I am conservative enough," Sen. Bob Krist said. "And I am strong enough to follow through with my life convictions, which is life from conception to natural death."
The override vote was scheduled for 1:30 p.m. CDT Wednesday. Watch a live stream of the proceedings.
1
2
4
7
Like us
Follow us
Join us

