Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
5:00PM Wednesday May 27, 2015
22979(0) online now
contact us
Search smh:
Search in:
Date
Video will begin in 5 seconds.
Hundreds dead from Indian heat wave
More than 500 people have died in India as a stifling heat wave saw temperatures rise above 47 degrees Celsius
PT1M13S 620 349
Autoplay On Off
Hyderabad: More than 1000 people are now believed to have died in a major heatwave across India, that has seen roads melt in New Delhi and temperatures near 50 degrees.
With no end in sight to the searing conditions, and officials warning the scorching temperatures would continue for several more days, hospitals are on alert to treat victims of heatstroke and authorities are advising people to stay indoors.
In the worst-hit state of Andhra Pradesh, in the south, 551 people have died in the past seven days as temperatures hit 47 degrees on Monday.
An Indian man covers his face as drives on a scooter under the hot sun in Hyderabad.
Photo: AFP
"The state government has taken up education programmes through television and other media to tell people not to venture into the outside without a cap, to drink water and other measures," said P. Tulsi Rani, special commissioner for disaster management in the state.
Advertisement
"We have also requested NGOs and government organisations to open up drinking water camps so that water will be readily available for all the people in the towns."
Large parts of India, including the capital New Delhi, have endured days of sweltering heat, prompting fears of power cuts as energy-guzzling air conditioners work overtime.
Indian fishermen catch fish in a shrunken pond in the village of Phaphamau on the outskirts of Allahabad.
Photo: AFP
The Hindustan Times daily said the maximum temperature in the capital hit a two-year high of 45.5 degrees on Monday - five degrees higher than the seasonal average.
The paper carried a front-page photo of a main road in the city melting in the heat, its zebra pedestrian crossing stripes curling and spreading into the asphalt.
"It's baking hot out here - our outing has turned into a nightmare," said Meena Sheshadri, a 37-year-old tourist from the western city of Pune who was visiting Delhi's India Gate monument with her children.
A passenger and her children sleep at a railway station in Allahabad, where temperatures reached 46.4 degrees this week.
Photo: Reuters
"My throat is parched, even though I've been constantly sipping water."
In Telangana state, which borders Andhra Pradesh in the south, 231 people have died in the last week as temperatures hit 48 degrees over the weekend.
In the western state of Orissa, 11 people are confirmed to have died from the heat.
India's Meteorological Department issued a Red Box warning for the state on Tuesday and Wednesday - meaning the maximum temperatures would remain above 45 degrees.
Another 13 people have died in the eastern state of West Bengal, where unions urged drivers in the city of Kolkata to stay off the roads during the day.
Hundreds of people - mainly from the poorest sections of society - die at the height of summer every year across the country, while tens of thousands suffer power cuts from an overburdened electricity grid.
India's power industry has long struggled to meet rapidly rising demand in Asia's third largest economy, with poorly maintained transmission lines and overloaded grids.
With no end in sight to the hot, dry conditions, the Hindustan Times warned that some of the worst-affected states could be plunged into drought before the monsoon rains arrive.
The monsoon is forecast to hit the southern state of Kerala towards the end of this month before sweeping across the country, but it will be weeks before the rains reach the arid northern plains.
AFP , LA Times
Three gored in Peruvian bull run
RAW VISION: Three people have been hospitalized in the Peruvian town of Huancavelica after being gored during the annual Fiesta de las Cruces bull run.
PT0M58S 300 169 Tue May 26 21:21:18 UTC 2015
Top 5 World articles

