Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
N.J. Politics Roundup: Rand Paul announces 2016 bid; Christie's town halls dissected
N.J. POLITICS ROUNDUP
A collection of political news from the Statehouse and around New Jersey
TRENTON — U.S. Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky on Tuesday became the latest Republican to officially declare he will run for president — but experts say it may not hurt Gov. Chris Christie's chances.
Here is a comparison of where Paul and Christie stand on key issues.
ANATOMY OF A CHRISTIE TOWN HALL
Teacher Tells Christie To Tone It Down A Little If He Is Going To Run For President At the town hall at Old Bridge High School, Cheryl Meyer a kindergarten teacher who works in Woodbridge tells Gov. Christie that, 'I really feel you need to tone it down a little if you want to become President.' (Aristide Economopoulos | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)
Here is a breakdown of what happens at one of Christie's patented town hall forum.
The governor held his latest town hall in Old Bridge on Tuesday, saying he'd "rather go home" than change his brash persona to run for president. (See photos above.)
Meanwhile, the man whom the governor famously once told to "sit down and shut up" was there.
And Star-Ledger columnist Tom Moran writes that Christie is taking his town halls out of state as New Jersey suffers.
OPPONENTS VOW TO FIGHT EXXON DEAL
Opponents are vowing to fight the the controversial $225 million settlement between Exxon Mobil and Christie's administration.
SAMSON RESIGNS FROM FIRM
Former Port Authority Chairman David Samson, who resigned from the agency a year ago amid the George Washington Bridge scandal, announced that he was retiring from the law firm he co-founded.
THE AUDITOR: CHRISTIE MAKES PASTA?
A look at how Christie made pasta and talked politics in a new show that will soon air.
IN OTHER NEWS ...
• A new analysis shows public contractors in New Jersey are giving more money to political action committees and other outside organizations.
• New figures show the 3rd Congressional District race between Tom MacArthur and Aimee Belgard was the most expensive in New Jersey and the most expensive open-seat contest in the country last year.
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for your subscription!
To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Political Viewpoints
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

