May 26, 2015 11:54 pm
Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo (9) and wide receiver Dez Bryant are all smiles after a touchdown during the second half of Dallas’ 31-21 win over the New York Giants Sunday, October 19, 2014 at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas. (G.J. McCarthy/The Dallas Morning News)
The Cowboys have improved their roster considerably over the last two seasons. They’ve developed some star players, added a few in the draft and a few more in free agency. What stands out most when ranking the current roster is how much better the overall depth has become.
Related
Jerry Jones, Stephen Jones, Will McClay, the scouting staff, Jason Garrett and the coaching staff seem to all be on the same page. They’ve built this group to a point where they should be able to overcome a few key injuries if needed.
On paper, it appears to be the Cowboys’ most talented group since 2009.
Here is the final installment of the 53-man roster ranking, the top 10.
10.) Orlando Scandrick, CB. Entering his eighth NFL season, Scandrick has become the Cowboys’ most consistent defensive back. He has started 29 games over the last two seasons and seems to be getting better every year. The Cowboys showed how much they think of Scandrick last week when they agreed to extend his contract another year, keeping him in Dallas through the 2019 season.
9.) Jeremy Mincey, DE. Mincey was one of Dallas’ most important offseason moves, signing a two-year deal with the Cowboys a year ago. As DeMarcus Ware’s much cheaper replacement at right defensive end, Mincey led the team with six sacks during the regular season and added two more during the playoffs.
8.) Tyrone Crawford, DT. The 2012 third-round pick was arguably the Cowboys’ most valuable defender last year, finding a home at the 3-technique tackle position. It’ll be interesting to see what Crawford can do in his second year playing the most important position in Rod Marinelli’s system.
7.) Greg Hardy, DE. Hardy has 27 sacks in his last 32 NFL games. When he returns from his suspension, the 2013 Pro Bowler should come in and make an immediate impact rushing the passer from the right defensive end spot. There aren’t many players on the planet that get to the QB as well as Hardy.
6.) Jason Witten, TE. The commitment to the running game had a significant impact on Witten’s stats last season. He sacrificed his receiving numbers to take a larger role as a blocker. The result was Witten’s 10th trip to the Pro Bowl. Jason Garrett said several times during the season that he still views the 33-year-old as the NFL’s top tight end.
5.) Travis Frederick, C. It sure would be difficult to find all those who didn’t agree with trading back and drafting Frederick two years ago. And he was even better in his second season, starting every game and earning his first trip to the Pro Bowl. No reason not to expect more of the same in 2015.
4.) Zack Martin, RG. As good as Frederick was during his rookie season, Martin was even better. Some fans at AT&T Stadium booed Dallas’ first round pick last year. They wanted the Cowboys to use No. 16 on Johnny Manziel. Same as Frederick, good luck finding the naysayers today. Martin is already considered one of the top guards in the league.
3.) Tyron Smith, LT. Signing an eight-year contract extension worth $109 million didn’t seem to put added pressure on the Cowboys’ best offensive lineman. Smith was again one of the league’s best left tackles, starting every game and earning his second trip to the Pro Bowl. And at only 24, there’s still room to grow.
2.) Dez Bryant, WR. Bryant continued to show why he’s regarded as one of the NFL’s best wide receivers, leading the league with a career-high 16 touchdown catches in 2014. With DeMarco Murray now in Philadelphia, even more defensive attention will be paid to the Cowboys’ top playmaker.
1.) Tony Romo, QB. Coming off a second back surgery, few thought it would be possible for Romo to play anywhere near his best. But he performed even better. Romo turned in a career year, throwing 34 touchdowns to only nine interceptions in 15 starts. If he’s able to duplicate his success, the Cowboys should be Super Bowl contenders.
Top Picks
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor.
Archives
Ad:Right
Categories
Mobile
Mobile
Listen live to 1310 The Ticket radio station. Fast forward, pause and rewind up to 20 minutes and read up-to-the-minute news on your favorite teams.
Get the latest high school sports news, scores, stats, schedules, standings, photos and more for your school on the SportsDayHS smartphone app.
Ad: Position3
Ad: Position4

