Texas Senate bills aimed at unauthorized immigrants stir emotions
1/1
Rodolfo Gonzalez/Austin American-Statesman
Students and former students in caps and gowns listened intently to Monday’s Texas Senate subcommittee debate on a Republican’s bill to repeal a 14-year-old law that allows some students who are in the United States illegally to pay in-state college tuition.
Updated:
06 April 2015 11:13 PM
AUSTIN — Republican senators, bowing to supporters of a hard-line stance on immigration, on Monday took up two divisive bills to erase what some see as lenient policies that threaten border security.
One would repeal a law that allows some students who are in the country illegally to pay in-state college tuition. The other would target “sanctuary cities” by barring local rules that prevent police from asking the immigration status of people they stop.
The proposals would reverse long-standing practices in Texas. They underscore the GOP’s struggle to balance its stated goal of reaching out to a booming Hispanic population with efforts that placate the staunch conservatives who form a significant part of the party’s base.
Backers of the bills say it’s time that Texas gets serious about eliminating policies that serve as a magnet to unauthorized immigrants. Opponents, especially Democrats, warn that the bills would harm promising students and reverse hard-won gains made through community policing.
Both measures are a long way from becoming law; neither has gotten out of committee. Still, sharp lines have been drawn in what could be one of the most disruptive debates in the Legislature this year.
“You need to be here passing laws that are good for Texas, that are morally correct for Texas, that are good for the economy. Not up here trying to prove that Republicans are running this Senate,” said Norman Adams, the co-founder of Texans for Sensible Immigration Policy and an opponent of the measures.
The tuition proposal drew most of the attention at a hearing Monday before a Senate subcommittee. Sen. Donna Campbell, R-New Braunfels, is proposing to repeal a 14-year-old law that allows some students who are in the United States illegally to pay in-state college tuition.
By enacting the law in 2001 with overwhelming bipartisan support, the Legislature recognized that “Texas would be investing in the future,” said Sen. Jose Rodriguez, D-El Paso.
“Each person who attends college, gains employment authorization and obtains a professional job adds value to Texas,” he said. “These Texas students without status are not a drain on state funds; they must pay for college like everyone else.”
Campbell said her bill wouldn’t deny those students the opportunity to go to college, “but the opportunity would come at a higher financial tag.”
The issue, she said, is whether Texas should subsidize the education of students here illegally by granting them in-state tuition.
Students benefiting from the law have paid more than $50 million in tuition and fees at state schools, according to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. Unauthorized immigrants represent about 2 percent of students at Texas community colleges and universities, according to the board.
In order to be eligible for in-state tuition, the students must have lived in Texas for at least three years, have a high school diploma or GED from the state, and sign an affidavit pledging to seek U.S. citizenship.
“This law opened the doors to what I thought was an impossible dream,” said Loren Campos, who recently earned his master’s degree in engineering from the University of Houston. Campos joined dozens of others testifying against Campbell’s bill.
The Texas Association of Business said the current law is good for the state’s economy and necessary if Texas is to keep up with the demand for well-qualified workers.
“It’s a wise investment,” said A.J. Rodriguez of the association.
But Campbell and other Republicans, including Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, said they feared the law provides an inducement for people to enter the country illegally.
“It’s just bad policy that rewards illegal immigration in perpetuity,” Campbell said.
Barbara Hines, co-director of the immigration clinic at the University of Texas School of Law, said there is “absolutely no evidence” that people come to the United States to seek a higher education.
“Migration is very complicated, and you can’t reduce it to a single bill or act,” she said.
Her comment drew cheers from a crowded overflow room where many young people dressed in caps and gowns listened intently to the debate.
Separately from its debate on the tuition bill, the Senate subcommittee approved a bill to clamp down on “sanctuary cities.” The bill would prohibit cities, under the threat of losing state money, from telling police that they can’t ask about the immigration status of people they detain. Such legislation failed in 2011, despite backing from then-Gov. Rick Perry.
Sen. Charles Perry, R-Lubbock, said his bill was simply about the “rule of law.” Like Campbell, he invoked the state’s broader border security push to justify his proposal.
“It doesn’t make any sense to me to have an opportunity to continue to provide safe, secure borders, and then to have cities that undermine that initiative,” he said.
Democrats countered that the legislation is unnecessary, that it would lead to racial profiling and that it would set back community policing efforts by discouraging crime victims and witnesses from coming forward.
“It puts Texas on the wrong track,” said Sen. Sylvia Garcia, D-Houston.
mbarnett@dallasnews.com;
tbenning@dallasnews.com
Katie Cam
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

