Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Cliven Bundy, his family and supporters are celebrating last year’s victory over the BLM.
Post to Facebook
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Bundy bash set this weekend
Mike Donahue Desert Valley Times 4:38 p.m. MDT April 10, 2015
Cliven Bundy’s party is taking place in the green area next to the Virgin River bridge at right below “Camp Bundy” on state route 170.
(Photo: Mike Donahue / Desert Valley Times)
BUNKERVILLE - Cliven Bundy and family have scheduled a “Bundy Ranch Liberty Celebration” on the east side of the state route 170 bridge over the Virgin River to recall the armed confrontation last year with the Bureau of Land Management.
The Bundy bash had a slow start late Friday afternoon with a barbecue and the main speakers were expected Saturday after an opening ceremony at 3:30 p.m., said Bundy’s wife Carol. The party was expected to last until 7 or 8 p.m. Saturday evening.
“We’re going to have a lot of things on a big screen including some documentary trailers and a member of the American Policy Center,” Carol said.
Other scheduled speakers Saturday include Dr. Taylor Haynes of Wyoming who ran for governor last year; Elko Count rancher Cliff Gardner; Nye County Sheriff Sharon Wehrly, and Nevada Assemblywoman Michele Fiore who tried to push AB408 through the Legislature that would have gutted federal authority in the state.
Instead, it was Fiore’s Bundy-supported bill that was gutted before it was approved and passed on by the Natural Resources, Agriculture and Mining committee.
The state’s legislative counsel bureau told the committee the federal government, which manages more than 80 percent of land within Nevada borders, has clear authority to own the property. The bureau said the bill would be struck down if challenged in court for attempting to put state law ahead of federal law.
The original version of AB408 prohibited the federal government from owning water rights and wide swaths of public land within the state’s borders, and it would have allowed county commissions to parcel out the land for commercial use. The rewritten bill only clarifies the commonly accepted idea that sheriffs are the primary law enforcement officers in unincorporated areas of counties.
Fiore disagreed vehemently and may speak on her effort Saturday.
A number of entertainers are also expected at the Bundy celebration.
“My daughter Hanna Bundy is going to sing, entertain the crowd and Paul Bliss will tell some cowboy poetry,” Carol said.
Bundy told the Desert Valley Times he also plans to speak Saturday and urged “everyone to come out for hot dogs and Bundy beef hambergers.”
Carol said a “non-denominational testimony meeting” is scheduled Sunday morning at which people will be encouraged to share stories of God and country.
Cliven Bundy and his family charged into the national headlines last year when the BLM closed some 600,000 acres of public land in an effort to remove “trespass cattle,” many of which were owned by Bundy.
The BLM said Bundy owed more than $1 million in grazing fees and penalties. Bundy said the BLM (federal government) had no right to restrict his use of public land on which to run his cattle.
Bundy and the BLM had squared off several times in federal court over the years with Bundy always losing.
In an apparent last-ditch effort to exert its authority the government created an incident command center and holding pen in Toquop Wash some nine miles south of Mesquite off Interstate 15 that was isolated by armed BLM guards. The government hired some “contract cowboys” who began rounding up cattle from the range around Virgin Valley, Moapa Valley, Gold Butte and Lake Mead.
The BLM also established “First Amendment” zones sectioned off by orange plastic fencing where the public was supposed to gather to express their Constitutional right to free speech.
The move enraged Bundy who put out a call that was answered by several different militias, as well as free-range and anti-government people from across the country. They gathered in a make-shift camp on SR-170 to protest the BLM and its actions.
Over several days there were numerous incidents between protesters and the BLM including one where Ammon Bundy was shocked by Taser-wielding officers and another where his aunt, Margaret Bundy Houston, was literally picked up and thrown to the ground by a BLM officer.
Finally, the morning of April 12, 2014, although then-Clark County Sheriff Doug Gillespie had told the boisterous crowd the BLM had agreed to cease its operation and release the cattle that had been collected, protestors, many armed with sidearms and riding horses, stormed over to the government compound and confronted officers over a steel fence panel.
Several protestors armed with high-powered rifles lay atop I-15 admittedly aiming at BLM officers. Luckily, no shots were fired, the cattle were freed and the protest eventually ended. The militia and protestors gradually faded from Bunkerville.
This weekend’s party is in celebration of the successful move to free Bundy’s cattle and get the BLM out of the area, Bundy said.
More Stories

