Hillary Clinton team woos reporters
Home meals and more outreach follow a long spate of critical coverage.
On Thursday night, Hillary Clinton’s chief of staff John Podesta held a private dinner at his Washington home with campaign reporters, part of a larger Clinton-team effort to build a rapport with the men and women who will spend the next 18 months covering Clinton’s bid for the White House, POLITICO has learned.
That effort is seen as a necessity for a candidate who, in the early months of 2015, has had no safe harbor in the media. To date, The New York Times alone has published more than 40 articles related to Clinton’s use of a private email account while secretary of state, and many other news outlets, including POLITICO, have come forward with revelations of their own. Meanwhile, right-wing media outlets criticize her daily and left-wing outlets are unabashed in their desire for a more liberal alternative.
Story Continued Below
Just last month, Clinton herself acknowledged that her relationship with the media was “complicated,” but said she wanted to build “a better relationship.” Without a formal campaign in place, however, she has been forced to assume a defensive posture. Now, with the launch of her campaign just around the corner, political strategists say the candidate and her team are set to wrest control of the narrative and go on offense.
“Politics, especially political reporters, abhor a vacuum, so media outlets are going to hunt and peck for stories that create the dynamic of the campaign being a yet-unannounced HRC presidential vs. the august members of the Fourth Estate,” Chris Lehane, the Democratic communications strategist and Clinton White House alum, told POLITICO. “Once the campaign is off and running like Usain Bolt, based on the big idea she offers as her rationale, it will develop specific reporters and outlets that take a franchise interest.”
The current state of Clinton-press relations reflects “the natural lay of things. She’s not a candidate, there’s not an affirmative message yet, and there’s not yet an apparatus fully capable of combatting [these stories],” said Nick Merrill, a Clinton spokesperson. Merrill confirmed that the Clinton team had media outreach plans in the works, but said he was not in a position to discuss them.
Being able to go on the offensive is especially important for a candidate like Clinton, who has few sympathizers in the media. Supporters have long grumbled that the Times and its mainstream brethren are especially tough on Clinton — the newspaper’s executive editor Dean Baquet calls the coverage “aggressive and fair” — but the past six weeks have only increased their fears. Meanwhile, right-wing media outlets have been using the new revelations to relentlessly attack her, while left-wing publications have been busy pushing their own populist alternatives.
The trifecta of right-wing attacks, left-wing angst and mainstream scrutiny has already made for a far rockier campaign rollout than Clinton likely anticipated. Though a mid-March CNN/ORC poll had her beating every potential Republican challenger by double digits, a new Quinnipiac University poll released this week shows that her support has been “wilting” in the key battleground states of Colorado, Iowa and Virginia. In each state, a majority of those surveyed said that Clinton’s private email use was either “very important” or “somewhat important” to their vote in 2016, and well more than a third of voters in each state said the issue made them less likely to vote for Clinton.
While the formal launch of a campaign will allow Clinton to take some control into her own hands, the absence of a viable primary challenger could pose its own problems, strategists said. With no real competitor, the media will be all the more eager to assume an antagonistic role.
“In the absence of a primary opponent, the press may feel obliged to fill that role, giving her the scrutiny and vetting normally provided by an opponent,” Paul Begala, the political consultant and chief strategist for Bill Clinton’s 1992 campaign, said. “If so, there is not much Hillary can do about it, nor should she try.”
Of the three sectors of American political media, it is the mainstream that has emerged as Clinton’s greatest obstacle. The fact that the hardest-hitting Clinton coverage has come from the Times, The Washington Post, POLITICO and other mainstream sources — rather than, say, The Weekly Standard or Washington Free Beacon — has revived concerns among her staff about Clinton’s poor relations with mainstream reporters.
“We have been aggressive and fair,” Baquet, the Times executive editor, said of his newspaper’s coverage of Clinton. “I’d say that’s been the same for coverage of all the candidates. Some of the Republicans have gone so far as to say they don’t read us. If everyone thinks you’re tough, you’re doing something right.”
In the past few weeks, Gawker and ProPublica have opened a new vein of Clinton coverage. On March 27, the two sites reported that longtime Clinton confidant Sidney Blumenthal supplied intelligence to then-Secretary Clinton “gathered by a secret network that included a former CIA clandestine service officer.” Days later, Gawker reported that Blumenthal and another Clinton official had secretly lobbied Clinton “on behalf of a billionaire in the former Soviet state of Georgia who was seeking closer ties with Putin’s Russia — seemingly in violation of a federal law designed to prevent foreign powers from covertly wielding influence within the United States.”
Critical coverage in outlets like the Times and ProPublica is far more dangerous to Clinton’s campaign than that of partisan outlets, strategists say, because the scrutiny is driven by reporting, rather than ideological analysis (there are exceptions with Gawker, which can be quite opinionated). Weeks of Fox News roundtables about Benghazi conspiracy theories don’t pack nearly the punch that a groundbreaking report from the Times can.
Merrill, the Clinton spokesperson, said he didn’t have a problem with the Times’ aggressive approach to the email scandal, especially since they broke the story. He was less forgiving of the Gawker-ProPublica report: “ProPublica, to be honest, I think my response to somebody who asked me that was just, ‘Seriously?’” (ProPublica editor-in-chief Stephen Engelberg did not respond to a request for comment regarding Merrill’s criticism.)
The drumbeat of investigations from the Times and other mainstream outlets might be more tolerable if Clinton had more allies on the left. Unfortunately for her, liberal pundits like Rachel Maddow and Chris Hayes, and progressive publications like The Nation and The New Republic have seem more interested in floating alternatives like Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders.
Late last year, The Nation made it its stated mission to find a populist challenger. Katrina vanden Heuvel, the magazine’s editor, told POLITICO that Clinton “would be better served if she has competition.” In Harper’s, Doug Henwood slammed Clinton as a hawkish centrist, a charge that has been echoed directly or indirectly across the liberal blogosphere and even on MSNBC.
“The Elizabeth Warren piece of it does make it tough for her with Chris Hayes and Rachel Maddow and those guys,” said Bill Burton, the Democratic strategist and former Obama deputy press secretary. “It is a challenge.”
Then there are the right-wing publications, which attack Democrats as a matter of course. To date, however, right-wing attacks on Clinton have been relatively muted, in part because several conservative sites are focused on the Republican primary. Behind the scenes, however, Republican groups are building a massive opposition effort, much of which will be leaked to conservative and mainstream outlets over the course of the next 18 months.
Clinton may never be able to quell the right, but by launching her campaign, she can at least make progress on the left and the mainstream, the strategists said.
“[The] campaign will convert some of the current entities by (a) being on the offensive and creating the conflict that drives coverage on its own terms; (b) filling the cup so that reporters can provide their daily quota of inches, clicks, tweets and retweets; and (c) demonstrate [the] capacity of the candidate where she can look like a giant towering over the sea of leprechauns across the aisle,” Lehane explained.
Of course, not everyone is so bullish.
“You do get the sense that it’s coming at her from all sides,” said one Democratic strategist who asked not to be quoted by name. “You do wonder if at some point she’s taking so much water that it all falls apart.”
Authors:

