 
The aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson (CVN 70) operating in the South China Sea during a bi-lateral exercise aimed at promoting interoperability with the Malaysian Royal Military, on May 10, 2015. China said on Monday, May 25, that it had lodged a complaint with the US over a spy plane that flew over parts of the disputed South China Sea in a diplomatic row that has fuelled tension between the world's two largest economies. -- PHOTO: AFP 
BEIJING, May 25 (Reuters) - China said on Monday it had lodged a complaint with the United States over a US spy plane that flew over parts of the disputed South China Sea in a diplomatic row that has fuelled tension between the world's two largest economies.
Friction in the region has grown over China's land reclamation in the Spratly islands. China last week said it was"strongly dissatisfied" after a US spy plane flew over areas near the reefs, with both sides accusing each other of stoking instability.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hua Chunying said on Monday that China had lodged a complaint and that it opposed"provocative behaviour" by the United States. "We urge the US to correct its error, remain rational and stop all irresponsible words and deeds," she said. "Freedom of navigation and overflight by no means mean that foreign countries' warships and military aircraft can ignore the legitimate rights of other countries as well as the safety of aviation and navigation."
China had noted "ear-piercing voices" from many in the US about China's construction on the islands and reefs. The nationalist Global Times, a tabloid owned by the ruling Communist Party's official newspaper, the People's Daily, said war was "inevitable" between China and the United States unless Washington stopped demanding Beijing halt the building of artificial islands in the disputed waterway. It said China was determined to finish its construction work, calling it the country's "most important bottom line".
TO READ THE FULL STORY...
 
 
 
SPH Digital News / Copyright © 2015 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. Co. Regn No. 198402868E. All rights reserved.

