ComEd smart grid bill signed into law by Rauner
A bill that could outcome in electric price increases through the end of the decade as two main energy organizations move forward on a sweeping grid modernization program was approved Friday by Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner.The measure allows Commonwealth...
A bill that could outcome in electric price increases through the end of the decade as two main energy organizations move forward on a sweeping grid modernization program was approved Friday by Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner.
The measure allows Commonwealth Edison and Ameren Illinois to keep away from legislative overview of the digital clever grid system till 2019 alternatively of 2017. Critics argue the move sets the stage for the politically influential corporations to win annual rate hikes via a formula that is weighted in favor of utilities over shoppers.
Your money, ComEd's donation: Clients spend tab for contributions  Julie Wernau  Commonwealth Edison spent $27,000 in ratepayer dollars in 2013 for a golf outing hosted by members of the Illinois Legislative Black Caucus, which was raising money for the legislative body's foundation.  Commonwealth Edison spent $27,000 in ratepayer income in 2013 for a golf outing hosted by members of the Illinois Legislative Black Caucus, which was raising dollars for the legislative body's foundation. ( Julie Wernau )
&quotWe're normally supportive of intelligent grid improvements, but it really is also early to inform whether or not their full worth is becoming maximized for consumers," mentioned Citizens Utility Board Executive Director David Kolata, who expressed disappointment at Rauner's action. &quotI don't believe it sends the appropriate message to utilities."
Kolata mentioned he feared that extending the law for two years would imply utilities could take benefit of the formula-primarily based price increases without the need of enough accountability for their performance.
&#108Related BusinessGRAPHIC: How a power clever grid would workSee all related8
Rauner spokesman Mike Schrimpf maintained the law will permit &quotimportant investments in the electric grid that will increase system reliability."
&quotThe underlying law allows the Illinois Commerce Commission to assessment utility expenditures to assure they are reasonable as properly as set penalties for the failure to achieve implementation metrics," Schrimpf said in an e-mail. &quotThe ICC maintains its current authority to initiate an investigation at any time to assessment issues it may have with electric rates or implementation of the system."
Proponents of the new law stated the smart grid operations are on track and consumers have been beginning to see the final results of improved service. The measure final year passed each houses with bipartisan assistance.
cComments                                 Got one thing to say? Start the conversation and be the initial to comment.                    Add a comment
The bill got to Rauner for the reason that of a uncommon parliamentary maneuver employed by Senate President John Cullerton, D-Chicago, that allowed an end run around the governor's Democratic predecessor, Pat Quinn, a longtime utility enterprise antagonist.
Cullerton won passage of the bill following the November election in which Rauner beat Quinn. But the Senate leader held back on sending the bill to the governor's desk till Quinn had left workplace.
&quotIt's sneaky. It really is not simple," stated Quinn, who was rapid to lambaste the legislation.
&quotI feel the governor and the legislature let the consumers of Illinois down," Quinn mentioned Friday. &quotIt is a blow to every day persons who want to have fairness in their utility prices."
The price-hike formula went into impact in 2011. ComEd, which handles most of northern Illinois, had argued it could not justify investing $2.six billion in the modernization project unless it could guarantee the income it invested could be recouped immediately and predictably through utility price hikes.
Ameren spokeswoman Marcelyn Adore dismissed the notion that the law puts in place an annual rate hike, saying buyers with the utility that covers most of Illinois south of Interstate 80 saw prices decreases in some years given that the smart grid system took effect.
Adore mentioned lawmakers and the ICC still have a significant voice in oversight, like annual evaluations ahead of the utility regulators.
Zumbach reported from Chicago.
Copyright © 2015, Chicago Tribune
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

