Sponsored By
May 26, 2015 11:45 PM
DESTIN, Fla. (AP) — The Southeastern Conference is taking steps to better identify concussions.
The league passed a regulation Tuesday that requires an independent medical observer for conference and non-conference games beginning next season.
Each trained observer — hired by the conference, not the schools — will be stationed in the television replay booth and monitor both sidelines as well as on-field action. At least two schools used the setup last season, and now “we’ve broadened that to make it consistent across the league,” incoming SEC commissioner Greg Sankey said.
Sankey said the observer will have the power to halt games and have potentially concussed players pulled and evaluated.
Outgoing commissioner Mike Slive called the change a “safety net.”
“Most of the time, the sideline picks up those kind of things,” Slive said. “But in case they don’t, this gives us a safety net. We’re doing everything we can to protect the health and safety of our students.”
(© Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.)
Michael Cugno Sports Reporter
CBS Miami Top News
Other CBS Local Cities
©2015 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.


By Marc Weiszer updated Tuesday, May 26, 2015 - 10:35pm
close
DESTIN, Fla. | The SEC is taking another step to keep concussed players off the field.
The league will have an independent medical observer for all football games played by league teams.
That person will be in the replay booth and be selected by the conference and has the authority to stop the game to remove an injured player.
“That will give us another check in the event that on the field the team doesn’t really see someone that may have had a head injury,” outgoing SEC commissioner Mike Slive said.
A “couple of schools,” already operated with an independent medical observer last season, incoming commissioner Greg Sankey said.
Slive says this “gives us a safety net,” in case sidelines don’t pick up a player injured.
Georgia head coach Mark Richt said director of sports medicine Ron Courson is the “forefront” for concussion protocol.
“We’ve always been very careful to do what he thinks is best and the best practice,” Richt said. “I’m comfortable with what we’re doing at Georgia.”
Go to the previous story
CONTACT US
Ask a Billing Question

