Sponsored By
May 26, 2015 11:45 PM
DESTIN, Fla. (AP) — The Southeastern Conference is taking steps to better identify concussions.
The league passed a regulation Tuesday that requires an independent medical observer for conference and non-conference games beginning next season.
Each trained observer — hired by the conference, not the schools — will be stationed in the television replay booth and monitor both sidelines as well as on-field action. At least two schools used the setup last season, and now “we’ve broadened that to make it consistent across the league,” incoming SEC commissioner Greg Sankey said.
Sankey said the observer will have the power to halt games and have potentially concussed players pulled and evaluated.
Outgoing commissioner Mike Slive called the change a “safety net.”
“Most of the time, the sideline picks up those kind of things,” Slive said. “But in case they don’t, this gives us a safety net. We’re doing everything we can to protect the health and safety of our students.”
(© Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.)
Michael Cugno Sports Reporter
CBS Miami Top News
Other CBS Local Cities
©2015 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.


close
DESTIN, Fla. | Steve Spurrier has a different view of disparities in cost of attendance stipends conference-wide for incidental expenses than he did before he arrived here this week.
“I changed my mind a little bit listening to commissioner Slive,” the South Carolina coach said. “Sometimes in life that’s just the way it is. One school can get $5,000 a year or $4,000, that’s just the way it is. If they can outrecruit you because of that, maybe a school with a new indoor facility can outrecruit the other….You would hope $400 or $500 wouldn’t be the reason to pick a school.”
Told that wanting more equity in cost of attendance may “not necessarily” be legal due to the Ed O’Bannon court case, Georgia head coach Mark Richt pushed back.
“You said necessarily be legal,” Richt said. “I’ve got some lawyers that say that it is legal to do. Maybe not on a national level, but possibly on a conference level. Plus, there are other things that if everybody would disclose how they go about their business it might be helpful to get things on a more equal plane.”
Imconing SEC commissioner Greg Sankey said “litigation outcomes” dictate how the league approaches cost of attendance.
Richt said he’s curious to know how schools get to their numbers. The SEC has backed transparency on cost of attendance.
“There’s a lot of numbers out there where nobody knows how they get to that number,” Richt said. “It would be nice to know how everybody gets to that number.”
Go to the previous story
CONTACT US
Ask a Billing Question

