PEOPLE News
Great Ideas
Reddit
04/09/2015 AT 08:25 PM EDT
What would you wear to a formal meeting with President Obama ? Probably not a wrinkled polo shirt, right?
But that's exactly what a Utah man was rocking when he walked into what he believed was a news conference with a "federal official" about how to create more jobs for veterans. Marvin Lance Futch, 26, got the surprise of his life when that "official" turned out to be the leader of the free world.
Due to a miscommunication, Futch believed that he was simply going to be listening to Obama give a speech about veterans in a large auditorium.
Instead, the Air National Guard member ended up in a small conference room with some high-profile people, including U.S. Sen. Orrin Hatch, U.S. Rep. Rob Bishop and – seated two chairs away from Futch – Obama.
"I was told that it was going to be an informal event – that it was going to be business casual," Futch told The New York Post on Wednesday. "So when President Obama walked in the room, I'm looking down at my white polo going, 'Well, if I would have known this, I would have worn my military blues or at least a suit and tie.' I admit I was feeling a little underdressed at the moment."
"I was sitting there," he added, "Honestly one of the first thoughts to go through my mind is: 'My commander on the base is going to kill me for this.' I should have known better."
It worked out well for Futch, though, who was given the opportunity to talk about his other place of employment – Vivint Solar, a residential solar provider – because the company's logo was imprinted on his polo.
"He asked me about Vivint Solar. I was able to tell him, 'We feel like we're leading a revolution in the solar industry,' " Futch explained to The Post.
A company rep posted a photo from the roundtable meeting on Reddit on Tuesday and explained the mishap, writing: "The Obama administration sent an invitation to his speech in Utah at Hill Air Force Base. We thought they wanted a representative from our company in the audience. Turns out they wanted the representative for a special round table with the president. Due to this mix up we sent my friend (a leader in our CAD dept) instead of the CEO."
The rep added, "The details are a little hazy right now. I know the person responsible for the mix up is in some serious trouble. But I'm sure the CEO is kicking himself over missing this chance to meet the president."
Share this story:
The Latest
TV Watch
PEOPLE News
Great Ideas
All
Copyright © 2015 Time Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.
Sign up for our daily newsletter and other special offers.
Choose your newsletters
Moms and Babies
Thank you for signing up! Your request may take up to one week to be processed.

