Last updated: April 04. 2015 3:56PM - 350 Views
JOHN O’CONNOR NICK SWEDBERG Associated Press
Story Tools:
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. — Gov. Bruce Rauner suspended $26 million in social services and public health grants as part of his push to whittle away at a $1.6 billion shortfall in the current state budget.
The Republican’s office released a list of targeted programs late Friday that included funding to pay for the funerals and burials of public-assistance recipients, smoking cessation, teen programs, autism, and HIV and AIDS programs, among other things. Rauner also froze $3.4 million in funding for immigrant integration assistance as part of his ongoing efforts to keep the state rolling through the June 30 end of the fiscal year.
Rauner’s office said the check-writing halt — he also interrupted $180 million in parkland grants in March — is necessary because the expenditures were planned with the idea that Democrats would continue a four-year, temporary income-tax hike that instead rolled back to a reduced amount in January after Rauner won the election.
“Part of the solution to solving the inherited $1.6 billion budget hole without raising taxes or increasing borrowing is to continue to evaluate the current fiscal year’s budget,” Rauner spokeswoman Catherine Kelly said. “The governor’s office worked with agencies to see which grants could be suspended and prioritized essential services.”
The cuts will save the state $21.8 million in Department of Human Services Grants and $4.5 million in unexpended funding through the Department of Public Health.
But there’s always another price — this one paid for by constituents who, as soon as Monday morning, will be told through closed doors there’s no more money to help them.
Breandan Magee, senior director of programs for the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, said dozens of organizations assisted 102,000 legal immigrants in 2014 with applications for citizenship, English as a Second Language classes and health and nutrition programs for low-income immigrants.
“There are 299 jobs across 60 different immigrant-services agencies at risk” with funding ceasing, Magee said Saturday. “There are workshops scheduled for citizenship, applications for citizenship pending, ESL classes hallway through.”
Immigrant integration programs — which Rauner proposed eliminating entirely in the 2016 budget — will take the biggest hit after a $6.9 million reduction for indigents’ burials. They will lose $3.4 million of the year’s $6.7 million budget, according to figures provided by the governor’s office. Magee said Human Services Department correspondence is unclear exactly how the procedure will play out. He has bills to pay from the last three months that he hopes will be covered.
A copy of Friday’s letter from Human Services, obtained by The Associated Press, notifies the recipient to “immediately cease incurring additional obligations, costs or spending any further grant funds until further notice.” It compels the agency to submit a “financial expense report” within two weeks of all expenses already incurred.
Parkland-related grants Rauner has suspended this year include $90 million for park facility construction, $56 million for local governments to purchase open space for future parkland, and $30 million for museum capital-construction grants.
Contribute
Comments
All user comments are subject to our Terms of Service. Users may flag inappropriate comments.
Primary Phone:

