Published May 27, 2015
Amnesty International accused Hamas militants Wednesday of abducting, torturing, and carrying out summary executions of Palestinians during last year's conflict in the Gaza Strip. 
The report, the last of four released by the human rights group detailing events during the fighting, said that at least 23 Palestinians were shot and killed by Hamas, which rules Gaza, while dozens more were arrested and tortured. Amnesty said those targeted were either political rivals of Hamas, including members of the Fatah party of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, or people the militant group had accused of cooperating with Israel.
The report detailed one particularly brutal spate of violence, which took place this past Aug. 22. 
"In one of the most shocking incidents, six men were publicly executed by Hamas forces outside al-Omari mosque ... in front of hundreds of spectators, including children," the report said. Hamas had announced the men were suspected "collaborators" who had been sentenced to death in "revolutionary courts," the rights group added.
"The hooded men were dragged along the floor to kneel by a wall facing the crowd, then each man was shot in the head individually before being sprayed with bullets fired from an AK-47," the report said of the August incident.
In one section of the report, testimony from the brother of Atta Najjar, an ex-Palestinian Authority policeman imprisoned since 2009 and killed by Hamas last August, described the violence done to him in captivity.
"His arms and legs were broken ... his body was as if you’d put it in a bag and smashed it ... His body was riddled with about 30 bullets," the brother was quoted as saying. "He had slaughter marks around his neck, marks of knives ... And from behind the head - there was no brain. Empty ... It was difficult for us to carry him ... He was heavy, like when you put meat in a bag; no bones. His bones were smashed. They broke him in the prison."
The report also revealed that Hamas used abandoned areas of a hospital in Gaza City to detain, question, and torture captives, even as other parts of the facility "continued to function as a medical centre [sic]".
Hamas used the war to "ruthlessly settle scores, carrying out a series of unlawful killings and other grave abuses," Philip Luther, Amnesty International's Middle East and North Africa director, charged. "These spine-chilling actions, some of which amount to war crimes, were designed to exact revenge and spread fear across the Gaza Strip."
"Hamas forces have displayed a disregard for the most fundamental rules of international humanitarian law," Luther added. "Torture and cruel treatment of detainees in an armed conflict is a war crime. Extrajudicial executions are also war crimes."
The report said 16 of the people killed by Hamas were already being held by the militant group when the conflict erupted and many of them were waiting to hear the verdict of their Hamas-organized trials. "Many had been sentenced after trials before courts whose proceedings are grossly unfair. A number had said they had been tortured in order to extract 'confessions,'" the report said.
Hamas violently seized Gaza from forces loyal to Abbas in 2007, leaving Palestinians bitterly divided with Hamas ruling Gaza and Abbas governing parts of the West Bank. Since then, Hamas has launched thousands of rockets at Israel and fought three wars with the Jewish state. According to official U.N. figures, over 2,200 Palestinians were killed during the 50-day war last summer. On the Israeli side, 67 soldiers and six civilians were killed.
In March, Amnesty International accused Hamas of war crimes for launching unguided rockets and mortars from civilian areas in Gaza toward civilian areas in Israel, saying that was a breach of international law. In particular, the report cited an incident in which a missile launched by Hamas misfired and killed 13 Palestinians, 11 of them children, when it exploded next to a market in a refugee camp. 
The first two reports mainly focused on the activities of the IDF and included strong criticisms of the Israeli military and accusations of "callous indifference" and "war crimes", which were again mentioned by Luther. "The fact that Palestinian armed groups appear to have carried out war crimes by firing indiscriminate rockets and mortars does not absolve the Israeli forces from their obligations under international humanitarian law,” he said.
Luther added, “The devastating impact of Israeli attacks on Palestinian civilians during the conflict is undeniable, but violations by one side in a conflict can never justify violations by their opponents.”
In reaction to the latest Amnesty International report, Salah Bardawil, a Hamas official in Gaza, told the Associated Press the incidents mentioned in the report took place 'outside the framework of the law' and Hamas was investigating them.
Advertisement


Hello user Logout | profile
Amnesty: Hamas tortured, killed Palestinians during 2014 Gaza war (AP)
6:05 AM
Cleveland Cavaliers advance to NBA Finals with 118-88 win over Atlanta Hawks to complete sweep (AP)
4:26 AM
IDF carries out airstrikes in southern Gaza Strip in response to firing of rocket (Haaretz)
12:02 AM
11:31 PM
Gaza sources say Hamas bracing for possible Israeli counterstrike (Haaretz)
10:21 PM
9:33 PM
8:12 PM
Boko Haram kill at least 43 in Nigeria's Borno state (Reuters)
7:47 PM
U.S. Capitol building evacuated; police investigating reason for audible alarm (Reuters)
7:23 PM
Texas resident charged with conspiracy to provide material support to ISIS (Reuters)
5:30 PM
Or Yehuda Mayor David Yosef suspected of multiple sex crimes (Haaretz)
5:01 PM
Syrian military kills more than 140 ISIS members in air raid on base in Raqqa (Reuters)
4:29 PM
3:37 PM
IDF strikes Gaza targets after firing of rocket toward Israel
Israel Air Force strikes four targets in southern Gaza Strip in pre-dawn attack.
By Amos Harel | May 27, 2015 | 1:58 AM
IDF aircraft struck four targets in the southern Gaza Strip before dawn on Wednesday, after a rocket was fired from the Strip on southern Israel on Tuesday evening.
The Israel Defense Forces issued a short statement stating it had targeted and hit militant infrastructure targets in the southern Gaza Strip, in response to the rocket fire.
The statement concluded by placing responsibility for the firing of the rocket on Hamas.
Sirens sounded
At least one projectile was fired from Gaza and exploded in an open area near the port city of Ashdod, some 20 kilometers north of the Gaza Strip.
No damage was reported, but medical services said a 15-year-old girl from Ashdod arrived at the Barzilai Medical Center in Ashkelon suffering from shock.
The Home Front Command reissued instructions to the public following the rocket fire, highlighting the importance of finding a protected area and remaining there for ten minutes after the alarm sounds.
In Ashdod, schools were set to operate as normal on Wednesday, aside from institutions that don't have safe rooms.
Sign up to get Haaretz's top stories - directly to your inbox
Please use a valid email address
Register
I'd like to recieve emails on offers, appeals and commercial info
To get the latest from Haaretz Follow @Haaretzom
Like us on Facebook and get articles directly in your news feed
comments
Name
Name
Subject
Comment
Your comment here
By adding a comment i agree to this site’s Terms of use
REPLY TO THIS TALKBACK
Name
Subject
Comment
Your comment here
By adding a comment i agree to this site’s Terms of use
thank you
Your talkback has been submitted successfully.
If selected for publication, it will appear as soon as possible on Haaretz.com.
By Shirly Seidler , Gili Cohen , Amos Harel , Jack Khoury | 10:22 PM
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East.  Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict,  the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip,  the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.
© Haaretz Daily Newspaper Ltd. All Rights Reserved

