2015 Idaho Legislature: What happened, what failed?
Boise, Idaho • The Idaho Legislature adjourned early Saturday morning right after spending 90 days introducing new bills and fine-tuning Idaho's laws.The session was alternately contentious and congenial, with lawmakers, lobbyists and state executives...
The session was alternately contentious and congenial, with lawmakers, lobbyists and state executives sparring more than instant horse racing machines, child assistance enforcement and some spending budget decisions.
Lawmakers did not get everything they wanted, but major troubles such as improved education funding and a solution to enable make a dent to Idaho's transportation income shortfalls have been achieved.
Right here are some of the highlights of the 2015 session:
Main BILLS PASSED:
— TEACHER Pay HIKE
A sweeping 7.4 % education budget boost to next year's state budget means that Idaho teachers are ultimately getting a raise. Rookie teacher salaries will enhance by practically $1,000 up to $32,700 per year in July. More than the next five years, if lawmakers continue to allocate funding, very first-year teachers will make $37,000 every year. The program also includes accountability recommendations that present oversight for the costly proposal.
—TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
Right after numerous failed plans and proposals, it took a specific six-member conference committee to negotiate a $95 million compromise that partially addresses Idaho's roads funding shortfall. The proposal to raise fuel taxes by 7 cents per gallon and improve registration costs by $21 will still address much less than half of the $262 million shortfall that the state has faced each and every year since 2010 just to preserve its crumbling roads and bridges.
— CONCEALED CARRY
The Idaho Legislature clarified that Idahoans can carry concealed weapons outdoors city limits with a permit. In a broad rewrite of the state's weapons code, lawmakers also set guidelines for safety courses and fees that counties can charge for permits. Even so, lawmakers did not remove a controversial provision that lets lawmakers carry concealed weapons with no permit. They also did not think about so-known as "Constitutional Carry" legislation, backed by second-amendment groups.
— GIANT SALAMANDER
An eighth grader's plan to name the Idaho giant salamander the official state amphibian lastly became law. Right after 5 years of lobbying, 14-year-old Ilah Hickman persuaded lawmakers to designate the salamander — which is found virtually exclusively in Idaho and can develop to be a single foot extended — as the state amphibian. The salamander joins 16 other state symbols, such as the Western white pine as the state tree and square dancing as the state dancing.
— TELEMEDICINE ABORTION RESTRICTIONS
The practice wasn't even supplied in Idaho just before this year's legislative session, but beginning July 1 Republican lawmakers created sure doctors would be officially banned from prescribing abortion-inducing drugs by way of telemedicine. The law also requires doctors to make efforts to schedule a follow-up visit with the lady soon after administering the drugs.
LEFT HANGING:
— MARIJUANA OIL
Lawmakers authorized a strategy that would legalize oil extracted from marijuana plants to treat youngsters with extreme epilepsy — and now the bill sits on Otter's desk. The bill was named soon after 10-year-old Alexis Carey, who experiences severe seizures from a kind of epilepsy known as Dravet Syndrome. But some say the program is a slippery slope toward healthcare marijuana. It's unclear if Otter will sign the strategy, which was opposed by his personal drug policy workplace, along with law enforcement and prosecutors.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
11 April 2015 Saturday 18:21

