Hawks guard Kyle Korver to have surgery on ankle - Atlanta News, Weather, Traffic, and Sports | FOX 5
Posted:
Updated:
By ASSOCIATED PRESS
By TOM WITHERS
AP Sports Writer
CLEVELAND (AP) - Atlanta Hawks guard Kyle Korver will have surgery on the right ankle he injured in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals.
Korver went to New York on Tuesday to get a second opinion from a specialist and it was determined he'll need an operation to repair his ankle. Hawks coach Mike Budenholzer did not say what damage Korver has in his ankle and there is no timetable for his return.
The NBA's best 3-point shooter in the regular season, Korver was injured when he was scrambling for a loose ball and his ankle was rolled on by Cleveland's Matthew Dellavedova.
Korver made 221 3-pointers this season, helping the Hawks win 60 games and get to the conference finals for the first time since 1993-94. Korver made a 3-pointer in 51 straight games this season. He holds the league record with 127 consecutive games.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
LeBron James scored 23 points, Kyrie Irving returned after missing two games and the Cleveland Cavaliers reserved a spot in the NBA Finals with a 118-88 victory over the Atlanta Hawks on Tuesday night to win the...
LeBron James knew what he left behind when he bolted to Miami five years ago.
Atlanta Hawks forward DeMarre Carroll took part in shootaround Friday morning but is still questionable for Game 2 of the Eastern Conference final against the Cleveland Cavaliers.
Atlanta Hawks forward DeMarre Carroll was a surprise starter in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference final against the Cleveland Cavaliers.
LeBron James scored 31 points and J.R. Smith made eight 3-pointers and added 28, leading the Cleveland Cavaliers past the top-seeded Atlanta Hawks 97-89 in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals Wednesday night.
J.R. Smith knocked down a tough 3-pointer, then another. Turning toward the fans, their heckling transformed to groans, he blew off his right index finger and motioned toward his side, like he was holstering his pistol.
Atlanta Hawks forward DeMarre Carroll has left Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Cleveland Cavaliers with what appeared to be a serious left leg injury.
Atlanta forward DeMarre Carroll left Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday night with a left knee sprain, an injury that threatens his status for the remainder of the series.
Monday, May 18 2015 7:10 PM EDT2015-05-18 23:10:23 GMT
   
Didn't find what you were looking for?
All content © Copyright 2000 - 2015 Fox Television Stations, Inc. and Worldnow. All Rights Reserved.

