Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Local laws do little to protect rights of LGBT Hoosiers
Local ordinances can be so weak that they are virtually unenforceable, experts say.
Post to Facebook
Local laws do little to protect rights of LGBT Hoosiers Local ordinances can be so weak that they are virtually unenforceable, experts say. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1D4JLGc
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
3
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Local laws do little to protect rights of LGBT Hoosiers
Stephanie Wang, The Indianapolis Star 4:18 p.m. EDT April 4, 2015
A protest against the Religious Freedom Restoration Act in Indianapolis.
(Photo: Aaron P. Bernstein, Getty Images)
INDIANAPOLIS — In the absence of a state law banning discrimination against gays and lesbians — and in the explosive wake of Indiana's "religious freedom" law controversy — more cities are considering their own protections of LGBT rights at the local level.
But even though Marion County and 10 other Hoosier communities already have local nondiscrimination ordinances that include sexual orientation, experts say such protections can be so weak that they are virtually unenforceable .
In Bloomington, Evansville, Fort Wayne and Michigan City, for example, civil rights agencies cannot pursue complaints of discrimination based on sexual orientation, unless the accused person or business agrees to an investigation.
Think about that. If people know they're guilty of treating others unfairly because of their sexual orientation, why would they want to be investigated? And why would people even file complaints in the first place if they may never be addressed?
"It offers the most meager statement possible," said Robert Dion, an Evansville-Vanderburgh County human rights commissioner. "It's weak sauce. It's pretty damn thin."
The lack of enforcement power for sexual orientation discrimination complaints becomes even more stark, he said, because those cities have a lot more authority to protect other groups of people.
For groups that also have state-level protections — such as race, religion, color, sex, disability or national origin — discrimination claims result in mandatory investigations. Local human rights commissions can often compel accused parties to participate through subpoenas, and, if needed, go to court to enforce case resolutions.
But because the state statute does not include sexual orientation or gender identity, some local officials say cities may not be legally enabled to enforce such protections with the same weight given to others.
“It offers the most meager statement possible.It's weak sauce. It's pretty damn thin.”
Robert Dion, an Evansville-Vanderburgh County human rights commissioner
"Any assessment that suggests that gay people are protected in a dozen cities in Indiana is an overstatement," Dion said.
The battle over the Religious Freedom Restoration Act exposed the lack of a statewide law shielding rights for gay and lesbian Hoosiers — and a majority Republican reluctance to implement one. Advocates for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community continue to push for statewide protections but failed to win them when the religious freedom law was clarified this week.
---
In Indianapolis and Marion County, the local ordinance bans discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in employment, education, housing and public accommodations, which covers businesses open to the public.
If someone files a complaint, the equal opportunity office looks for probable cause through interviews, and tries to settle the dispute and end any discriminatory practice. It can send the case to an administrative hearing, and both parties have the right to an appeals process.
Many complaints don't result in a reasonable finding of possible discrimination, said Maxine Russell, chief of equal opportunity. Of those that do, many of them can be settled in a conciliation agreement between the two parties.
Several thousand opponents of Indiana's Religious Freedom Restoration Act hold a rally on the steps of the Statehouse in Indianapolis on Saturday, March 28, 2015
 (Photo: Charlie Nye, The Indianapolis Star)
But cases involving sexual orientation and gender identity are treated the same way as any other class protected by the ordinance, she said.
The situation is similar in West Lafayette, New Albany and South Bend, which all have ordinances that include both sexual orientation and gender identity at equal protection levels as other classes.
Terre Haute, Lafayette and Tippecanoe County protect sexual orientation at an equal level, but ordinances do not include gender identity.
But in places such as Bloomington and Monroe County, the code includes an additional section:
"In complaints of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, or both," the human rights ordinance says, "the commission's authority shall typically be limited to voluntary investigations and voluntary mediation."
Indiana University law professor Carlton Waterhouse said voluntary compliance for sexual orientation or gender identity discrimination complaints essentially means the ordinance has no effect.
"It becomes more like a suggestion," he said. "It becomes more like an aspiration, a hope."
"It would only be meaningful," Waterhouse added, "if a person is claiming they did not discriminate, and they seek to show they did not discriminate by some voluntary process."
In the cities with voluntary compliance for LGBT discrimination complaints, the complaint is dismissed if the accused party chooses not to participate.
“They not only don't have teeth, but they don't have gums. They're really just policy statements.”
Indiana civil rights attorney Kevin Betz, on local nondiscrimination ordinances
The reason why Bloomington's ordinance doesn't go as far as the one in Marion County is in part because some officials disagree about what state law entitles them to do.
Some disagree over whether adding sexual orientation and gender identity protections at equal protection levels would mean cities are legally enacting stricter laws than the state, or whether cities that do so could be unlawfully restricting what the state permits.
"It's my legal opinion that state home rule law prohibits local governments from enacting and enforcing ordinances prohibiting sexual orientation or gender identity discrimination with the same enforcement teeth" as other discrimination cases, said Bloomington director of human rights Barbara McKinney in an email.
The disagreement over how strong local ordinances can be is likely to remain unless the courts weigh in, said Dion, who is also the political science department chair at the University of Evansville.
"That's the gray area," he said.
To adequately protect against LGBT discrimination, McKinney said, sexual orientation and gender identity would need to be added to the state's civil rights law.
Consider that in Fort Wayne, the human relations commission has never taken a sexual orientation discrimination complaint all the way to an administrative hearing to determine whether discrimination took place, according to executive director Dawn Cummings.
But that's not for a lack of cases.
There have been a few cases, Cummings said, where people initially agreed to the investigation. But once the commission found probable cause — evidence suggesting discrimination may have happened — the parties decided to stop participating.
So there were no resolutions.
What, then, asks Indianapolis civil rights attorney Kevin Betz, do the local nondiscrimination ordinances actually achieve?
"They not only don't have teeth," he said, "but they don't have gums. They're really just policy statements."
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1D4JLGc
USA NOW
Apr 04, 2015

