Published April 06, 2015
Leaders from Congress, municipal and state governments, and independent legal experts have joined forces to sign and file various friend-of-the-court briefs backing President Barack Obama's executive action on immigration before a court of appeals, which will make a ruling on the case.
The different legal arguments, whose period for being presented ends Monday, seek to convince an appellate court in New Orleans to lift the temporary suspension of the deportation relief ordered by the president that could avoid more than 5 million undocumented immigrants being expelled from the country.
The brief has been signed by elected representatives of more than 70 cities and counties in 29 states.
As Denver Mayor Michael Hancock told a telephonic press conference Monday, cities like his have joined with others including New York, Los Angeles, Seattle and Houston to charge that "action against the president's executive action is contrary to the public interest" and harms communities.
And as Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) said, 181 members of the House of Representatives have signed a similar document, in which they explain the legitimacy of the president's executive action on immigration and argue that they help prioritize the needs of the immigration system.
The temporary suspension of the measures of deportation relief, which were to take effect in February, was ruled by federal Judge Andrew Hanen at the plea of 26 states led by Texas.
The Obama government decided to appeal the decision, the reason why the case is now being tried in a New Orleans court.
Joining the elected officials in defense of Obama's executive actions are also business owners and executives, who consider their implementation economically favorable, along with 150 unions and civil society organizations.
The states presenting the lawsuit are ignoring their own citizens and are sending a message of hate, according to Rocio Saenz, international executive vice president of the Service Employees International Union. EFE
More Stories
Also on the web

