A
A
A
Jennifer Mitchell
Only 41% of those polled said they approved of Gov. Cuomo's job performance.
Gov. Cuomo's approval ratings have fallen to an all-time low, a poll released Tuesday showed, as voters appeared to blame him for a highly publicized run of corruption in Albany.
The latest Siena Research Institute survey found that only 41% of those polled said they approved of his job performance, compared with 59% who said they did not.
Last month, 44% in a Siena poll said they approved of his job performance (compared with 55% who said they did not), while in June 2014, the groups were split almost evenly.
Similarly, Cuomo’s favorability rating dropped to 53%. That was down from the 56% who said they had a favorable opinion of him in April and 63% who said so last June.
The current poll found also that 44% of those surveyed said they did not have a favorable opinion of Cuomo — up from 39% last month and 31% in June.
The lower ratings appeared to be the result of a slew of high-profile corruption cases, including charges against Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos.
Mark Lennihan/AP
Former New York Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver is transported by federal agents to federal court, after being arrested on public corruption charges earlier this year. According to the poll, voters didn't appear to think that a recent run of arrests would curb corruption in Albany.
A whopping 90% of those polled said corruption in state government is a “serious” problem.
“Voters continue to see corruption in state government as a serious issue, with half saying it’s a very serious issue. One-third of voters think there’s been more corruption in the last four years than there was previously,” Siena College pollster Steven Greenberg said.
And voters appear to believe the continuing cases of legislative wrongdoing aren’t about to end any time soon.
“By a 55-35% margin — including majorities from every party and region — voters say the recent indictments of former Speaker Sheldon Silver and former Majority Leader Dean Skelos will not reduce corruption in Albany,” Greenberg added.
Of those polled, 62% said corruption among their own state legislators was a serious problem, while 57% said the level of corruption in state government over the past four years is “about the same as it was previously.”
Gov. Cuomo's approval ratings have fallen to an all-time low.
“When it comes to reducing corruption, half — including a majority of Democrats and those from New York City — say Cuomo has been at least somewhat effective, while half say he has not been,” Greenberg said.
Meanwhile, voters still pointed to jobs and the economy as the biggest issue on their radar, with 30% saying that it was the most important item they wanted their state legislators to work on.
Education was next at 27%, followed by corruption and ethics at 15%.
The poll was conducted May 18-21 among 695 registered voters.
Tags:
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

