SAN JOSE--The race for northern San Jose's City Council seat remained in limbo Wednesday -- even as the gap separating two of three top contenders widened -- with election officials saying they won't have final results until at least Friday.
Legislative aide Tim Orozco finished first in a crowded field of 10 candidates on Tuesday, but couldn't win the District 4 seat outright with his 2,230 votes, or 22 percent.
Runner-up Manh Nguyen, who led third-place finisher Lan Diep by just seven votes on Tuesday, saw his lead grow to 28 votes by Wednesday afternoon. Nguyen had 1,940 votes to Diep's 1,912 by Wednesday afternoon. One of them will face Orozco in a June 23 runoff.
Tuesday's special election was held to replace Kansen Chu, who left the council at the end of last year after winning a state Assembly seat. The district includes a large number of Asian-American voters in the Berryessa neighborhood.
Orozco, who was backed by the powerful South Bay Labor Council, essentially began his runoff campaign on Wednesday by claiming support from local businesses.
"The story is I have broad-based support," he said.
Philip Chantri, spokesman for the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters, said ballot counting was 98 percent complete, but that a final tally will "probably have to wait until Friday."
"It's very close," Chantri said.
Advertisement
The longer-than-usual wait is due to Senate Bill 29, which went into effect at the start of the year. The new state law gives mail-in ballots three more days to arrive and be counted as long as they were postmarked on Election Day. There were about 1,400 mail-in votes in the District 4 election, and most of them actually have been counted.
But given how few votes separate Diep and Nguyen, the challenger to Orozoco could conceivably be decided by the last mail-in ballots to arrive Friday.
Diep, an attorney, admitted Wednesday his chances were dimming, but he planned to wait until the votes were final before conceding.
"I don't want to jump the gun," Diep said.
Nguyen was buoyed by Wednesday's count.
"I am gratified and humbled by the results thus far," Nguyen said. "But there are still votes left to count, and we may not know the final tally for several days."
Contact Joe Rodriguez at 408-920-5767. Follow him at Twitter.com/joerodmercury .

