Darryl T. Simms, 27, of East St. Louis, was killed
Recent
FEATURED
RECENT
Recent
Recent
MORE
MORE
RECENT
Saved
2015-04-05T17:30:00Z 2015-04-05T19:04:04Z A preacher returns to the church he founded to celebrate his 100th birthdayBy Michael D. Sorkin St. Louis Post-Dispatch stltoday.com
With the Easter theme of resurrection after despair, area pastors look back on community's struggle, while expressing hope for personal and in… Read more
On Easter Sunday, the Rev. Joel K. Davis turned 100. He celebrated by returning to the church he founded 59 years ago and preaching a sermon on resurrection.
Although his topic was religious, it might well have been on the politics of resurrecting a once-proud neighborhood.
Davis’ small church sits on the edge of an area of north St. Louis that city officials want to raze. They hope to lure a spy agency called the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency to relocate there. The federal government is deciding between that and three other possible sites.
The Grace Missionary Baptist Church is in the endangered neighborhood, at Cass Avenue and 23rd Street. Much of the land around it is vacant, but it includes the vintage homes of some longtime city residents.
About 50 of them showed up Sunday to help Rev. Davis celebrate his centennial.
Ernestine Bates grew up down the street from the church during the 1960s. She remembers the Pruitt-Igoe public housing complex, located at the time just across the street from the church.
The neighborhood was filled then with families, children and homes, she recalled. That changed after the city famously demolished the housing complex in 1976.
Then and now, Bates said, Grace Missionary Baptist stands as a haven for neighborhood residents, especially the children.
“Rev. Davis was an awesome man,” she said. “He took time to counsel us as children and tell us right from wrong. Families had a place to come to when they needed help.”
Davis started a food pantry at the church in 1986. His son, the Rev. Jonathan K. Davis, 52, succeeded him 10 years ago. The younger pastor wants to expand the church’s outreach with a community center on the corner two doors away.
He has the space, a vacant building, but not the money to convert it.
On Easter, women of the church donned their finest hats — white, tan, red or black. One woman asked for a blessing for the families of those who had been recently slain.
“There is so much going on,” she said.
One congregant said she had been coming to the church for 56 years. “When Pruitt-Igoe was here, we had family and friends,” she recalled.
The now-demolished housing complex helped the church gain a new member on Sunday. Bob Hansman lives downtown and is a faculty member at Washington University’s architectural school.
He got to know the neighborhood around the church — it’s called St. Louis Place — after giving tours of the old Pruitt-Igoe site. That’s now a huge field of tangled weeds and brush across from the church, a white concrete building that used to house a grocery that burned.
Congregants applauded Hansman when he teared up at the front of the church and said, “I’m just so glad to be a part of this family.”
The highlight of the service was the return of its founding pastor. Dressed in a crisp white suit and blue paisley tie, the elder Rev. Davis looked decades younger than his 100 years.
“Thank you for life itself,” he said, and preached for some 20 minutes.
Then he suddenly stopped. “Excuse me,” he explained, “I’m going to stop preaching. I feel like singing.”
He broke out into a verse of “Little Wooden Church on the Hill,” his voice resonant and strong.
The congregation joined in. His son, the current pastor, played the piano. Judah, 5, a son of the younger Rev. Davis, played the drums. The church was filled with “Amens.”
After the service, the elder Davis greeted a man from the audience whose 100th birthday is two days after his own. William A. Jackson is a World War II veteran of the Army and a retired postal worker.
Jackson arrived in a wheelchair and told the congregation, “The Lord will pray for me and I will pray for you.”
Michael D. Sorkin • 314-340-8347
msorkin@post-dispatch.com
Copyright 2015 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with www.stltoday.com account:
Username & Password Required!

