Published: Wednesday, May 27, 2015 12:15 a.m. CDT
Yes, the Bears got it right by cutting McDonald.
It didn’t have to be by some artificial deadline to theoretically display some new understanding of his psychopathy, but the short-lived experiment in second chances had to end now.
But before you rush to judgment of chairman George McCaskey, general manager Ryan Pace and the Bears organization, do yourself a favor and Google the story of Brian Banks.
He’s the young man from Long Beach, California, who lost his scholarship to Southern Cal to play linebacker, and instead spent 5 years in prison and the past 10 years as a registered sex offender after being falsely accused of rape by a woman, who has since completely recanted the allegation.
Spend a few minutes thinking about the living torture his life has been because nobody took the time to learn the truth about his situation.
When the Bears signed McDonald, he had been accused twice, once of domestic abuse and once of sexual assault, but after exhaustive investigations, there was no evidence to charge him in either crime.
This wasn’t Greg Hardy or Ray Rice, known to be guilty abusers of women. When the Bears signed him, McDonald was a guy who might have been a victim of circumstances.
You know what? It might turn out he’s not guilty of anything, but being incredibly stupid this time, either.
This time is different, however, because to even allow him to be in this situation again in light of past circumstances is a firing and punishable offense.
The punishment is up to the legal system. Only the firing is up to the Bears, and it happened swiftly.
The Twitter sphere already is bursting with criticism and disdain for McCaskey, and the Bears for not knowing what numerous law enforcement agencies were unable to prove or even charge.
We know McCaskey, who was a lawyer by trade before coming to work for the family business, was skeptical at first and resistant to signing him.
To my knowledge, he has no psychiatric or psychological training that should have helped him see through the façade the young man apparently was operating behind. After speaking to McDonald, his parents and the folks who work for him, McCaskey took a chance, and now it has backfired.
There is an expression in NFL front offices when it comes to deciding on players, “Who’s the guy who’s going to bang on the desk and vouch for this guy?”
In this case, that was Bears defensive coordinator Vic Fangio. He coached McDonald the past four seasons, knew him well and told us only 2 weeks ago that he vouched for McDonald, and told him if the Bears didn’t sign him, he would definitely try to help him with other teams.
Clearly, Fangio put his reputation and credability with McCaskey and Pace on the line for McDonald, not to mention his future head coaching aspirations.
If there is a real loser here it’s Fangio, not because he did anything wrong, but because he trusted a guy he shouldn’t have.
Did he look past obvious warning signs because he had to have the football player? I don’t want to believe that, and more than not wanting to, I don’t because the fact is McDonald’s not that special on the field.
Ask yourself this: Did the Bears’ signing of McDonald somehow contribute to this latest incident? Or would McDonald, unemployed, depressed and feeling deserted, have been more likely to act out again?
With the spotlight so clearly and squarely on him for the slightest of missteps, his deal with the Bears should have helped keep him straight.
If you want to criticize the Bears for their football decisions, fire away.
But on this one, aim your venom at the guy who’s guilty of squandering his second chance, not the folks who tried to help keep him clean.
Comments
Comments
Reader Poll
Have you traveled to Nachusa Grasslands to see the bison herd yet?
Yes
No, and I don't plan to go
Copyright © 2015 SaukValley.com. All rights reserved. Published in Sterling, Illinois, USA, by Shaw Media.

