From Wire Reports
 
You have viewed free articles or blogs allowed within a 30-day period.  Receive FREE access by logging in to or creating your Spokesman.com account.
Log In to your Spokesman.com account for unlimited viewing and commenting access.
Don't have a Spokesman.com account? Create a Spokesman.com profile and register for FREE access.
S-R Media, The Spokesman-Review and Spokesman.com are happy to assist you. Contact Customer Service by email or call 800-338-8801
Some teenagers get driving lessons from their parents. Other teens are taught by licensed instructors.
But Malia Obama isn’t your average 16-year-old: Her driving lessons were provided by the U.S. Secret Service.
Asked who taught Malia how to drive, first lady Michelle Obama told celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview that it was the armed agents who provide around-the-clock security for the family.
“The Secret Service, actually, because they wouldn’t let me in the car with her,” Obama said in an excerpt of the interview that was released by Ray’s program …
You have viewed 20 free articles or blogs allowed within a 30-day period.  FREE registration is now required for uninterrupted access.
Registration Required
log in to your Spokesman.com account for unlimited viewing and commenting access.
Don't have a Spokesman.com account? Create a Spokesman.com profile and register for FREE access.
S-R Media, The Spokesman-Review and Spokesman.com are happy to assist you. Contact Customer Service by email or call 800-338-8801
Malia Obama
Some teenagers get driving lessons from their parents. Other teens are taught by licensed instructors.
But Malia Obama isn’t your average 16-year-old: Her driving lessons were provided by the U.S. Secret Service.
Asked who taught Malia how to drive, first lady Michelle Obama told celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview that it was the armed agents who provide around-the-clock security for the family.
“The Secret Service, actually, because they wouldn’t let me in the car with her,” Obama said in an excerpt of the interview that was released by Ray’s program. The full interview is set to air today.
Rap mogul will get a new attorney
A Los Angeles judge on Wednesday gave former rap music mogul Marion “Suge” Knight time to hire a new attorney in a robbery case filed after a celebrity photographer accused him and comedian Katt Williams of taking her camera last year.
In a separate case, Knight has been charged with murder in a deadly hit-and-run.
The Death Row Records co-founder appeared in a Los Angeles courtroom chained to a wheelchair. He complained to Judge Ronald Coen, saying he could walk. Knight fell at his previous court hearing and has been taken from courthouses four times for medical conditions since he was charged with murder in early February.
Coen pressed Knight about whether he wanted a new attorney in the robbery case. His previous attorney, David Kenner, said in a filing he no longer wanted to represent Knight.
Knight said he wanted to fire Kenner and has until May 27 to hire a new attorney.
Knight is due back in court Monday for a preliminary hearing in a murder case filed after he allegedly struck two men with his truck outside a Compton burger stand, killing one of them.
Stones rolling toward Quebec City
The Rolling Stones, Foo Fighters and Iggy Azalea will play during an 11-day festival in Quebec City, Canada.
Festival d’ete de Quebec will take place from July 9-19 and will include 300 shows across 10 venues. Other performers include Keith Urban, Nickelback, the Doobie Brothers, Deep Purple, and Jack U, which is the duo of popular DJs Diplo and Skrillex.
Performances will take place indoors and outdoors, and will range from pop and rock to jazz and electronica.
Tickets go on sale today. The festival launched in 1968.
The birthday bunch
Playboy magazine founder Hugh Hefner is 89. Country singer Hal Ketchum is 62. Actor Dennis Quaid is 61. Actor Mark Pellegrino is 50. Actress-model Paulina Porizkova is 50. Actress Keshia Knight Pulliam is 36. Actor-singer Jesse McCartney is 28. Actress Kristen Stewart is 25.
Recent stories in Nation/World
By phone
Newsroom: (509) 459-5400  •  (800) 789-0029
Customer service: (800) 338-8801

