Bill to enhance Nevada’s boutique distilleries advances
CARSON CITY — Nevada’s boutique distilleries would be in a position to sell more of their bottled spirits straight to customers and offer you twice as lots of shots per consumer at tastings under a bill amended and authorized Friday by a Nevada Senate...
CARSON CITY — Nevada’s boutique distilleries would be in a position to sell more of their bottled spirits straight to customers and offer you twice as lots of shots per consumer at tastings under a bill amended and authorized Friday by a Nevada Senate committee.
Senate Bill 246, sponsored by Republican state Sens. James Settelmeyer of Minden and Don Gustavson of Sparks, won approval by the Senate Committee on Commerce, Labor and Energy. It now moves to the Senate floor.
There are 5 craft distilleries in Nevada, four in the north and 1 in the south. Distillery owners say they are attempting to create a “grain to glass” niche market for their gin, vodka, rum, rye and whiskey. But to do so they asked to change state law that limits how significantly they can export to other states or sell per month to individual prospects.
The original bill sought to raise allowable exports to other states to 60,000 cases per year, up from 20,000. An amendment adopted Friday splits the distinction, raising the limit to 40,000 instances. In-state sales would stay capped at ten,000 circumstances.
Current law also restricts direct on-website sales to shoppers to two bottles per month. The bill as amended would raise the limit to a case per month, not to exceed six cases per year, per particular person.
Furthermore, the two fluid ounce restriction on shots supplied as samples would be raised to four fluid ounces under the measure.
After a hearing on the bill in March, Colby Frey of Frey Ranch Estate Distillery in Fallon stated the company’s aim is to place Nevada on the map and eventually distribute its liquor nationally.
But first there has to be a demand, and that calls for broadening its availability, he stated. He gave an example of an Oregon couple who visited the distillery and wanted to take a case household to share with buddies. Below existing law, they were only permitted to invest in four bottles to comply with the two-bottles-per-person-per-month law.
Bently Heritage in Douglas County plans to use rye, wheat and barley grown on Bently Ranch in Carson Valley to make its spirits. The corporation is investing millions of dollars to renovate the historic Minden Flour Mill building in downtown Minden to property the distillery.
Speak to Sandra Chereb at schereb@reviewjournal.com or 775-687-3901. Uncover her on Twitter: @SandraChereb.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

