5 Lessons from the Indiana ‘Religious Freedom’ Law Debate
Concerns over LGBT discrimination defined new front lines of the culture wars.
Demonstrators protest Indiana's Religious Freedom Restoration Act on Monday in Indianapolis. The law has spurred nationwide debate over religion and discrimination since its passage.
+ More
After a week of intense scrutiny, lawmakers in Indiana and Arkansas settled on measures to make clear they never intended for religious freedom legislation to result in discrimination against gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people.
Leaders in Indiana’s statehouse announced Thursday a legislative “fix” to a religious freedom law signed by  Gov. Mike Pence last week that would make explicit it could not be used to justify refusals to provide services to LGBT people. Their solution followed the decision of Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson on Wednesday to send his state's religious freedom bill back to the legislature to narrow its language in order to address similar concerns.
The Question of LGBT Discrimination Isn’t Going Anywhere
While much attention has been paid to the expansion of legal same-sex marriage in recent months, looming in the background was the call to protect LGBT people from discrimination in employment, housing, education and public services. Congressional lawmakers have battled over a federal ban on employment discrimination based on sexual orientation for more than 40 years, adding gender identity to the desired protections in 2007. More than half the states lack such legislation.
The debate over Indiana’s religious freedom law put the question of whether a business should be allowed to refuse services to gay couples into focus, even as Pence attempted to dodge it in an ABC News interview over the weekend. While state politicians now thrust into the national spotlight say that was never the law’s intent, its timing , statements made by the bill’s supporters and its legislative history suggest otherwise.
The controversy  put several GOP 2016 contenders on the record as supporting the right of businesses to discriminate against gay people  in certain instances, though some are now attempting to walk back those statements.
Nor Are the Desires of Religious People for More Protections
It remains to be seen whether lawmakers will face backlash from the faith community for rejecting claims that the religious freedom legislation would have allowed for LGBT discrimination.. Many of the Indiana’s laws supporters – such as Indiana Baptist minister Tim Overton – are still seeking the right to decline to participate in a gay couple’s wedding that they don’t believe is valid in the eyes of God, even if they don’t endorse carte blanche discrimination among all businesses. (The new fix says "providers" cannot use the law to justify discrimination, leaving out churches and nonprofits).
Perhaps where lawmakers erred was in crafting religious protections that were too broad and vague, as if to hide their true purpose. As same-sex marriage became legal across states in a variety of ways, only some states considered religious exemptions. In some places where same-sex marriage was legalized through the legislature (like New York) or ballot initiative (like Maine), the language made clear that churches and other religious organizations would not be forced to participate in same-sex weddings.
Elsewhere, particularly in places where same-sex marriage was legalized via a court decision ( Connecticut being a notable exception ) there was no effort to make such a clarification, which some say is unnecessary anyway.
The Supreme Court may address that matter when it considers same-sex marriage in the months to come. If it doesn’t, it will be up to lawmakers to determine whether churches and other religious organizations need a legal exemption from participating in a wedding ceremony to which they object. And that wouldn't necessarily resolve the question as to whether artisanal businesses, too, deserve a legal option to opt out of serving gay couples.​
When looking at this and LGBT discrimination at large​,​ it will be tough for politicians to find a compromise that appeases both LGBT rights proponents and religious activists. But they’d be wise to look to Utah, where civil rights groups and the Mormon Church worked together on a deal that prohibited LGBT discrimination in employment and housing while carving out exemptions for certain religious groups and their affiliates.
Big Business Has Chosen Its Side, Putting the GOP in a Tough Spot
Absent a compromise between LGBT rights groups and religious protections advocates, the business community – especially the tech sector – signaled it would side with the former, putting Republicans squarely in the middle of two of their most important constituencies. While mom-and-pop shops may rankle for the right not to cater gay weddings, big companies like Wal-Mart, Apple Inc. and Yelp made clear they would oppose any law that gave even the perception of discrimination. It is believed  that those voices played a key role in pushing Republicans back to the negotiating table.
The support of LGBT rights by the business community has been an ongoing trend . But the debate in Indiana – where its top tech employer was among the law's most vocal opponents, where its capital was grappling with the economic loss of major conventions, and where the upcoming NCAA Final Four men's basketball tournament added to the urgency – put that support in stark relief. Republicans will now have to navigate between placating the constituency that fills its coffers and pandering to social conservatives who are especially influential during primary season.
Hobby Lobby Changed the Game
Many observers have pointed out that the religious freedom language being considered in Indiana, Arkansas and elsewhere differed from a federal version of the law enacted in 1993. But not to be overlooked is how the Supreme Court’s Hobby Lobby decision altered the understanding of religious freedom protections. Pence and other lawmakers  even cited Hobby Lobby – as opposed to gay rights – as the inspiration for the state law.
By using the federal religious freedom law to allow Hobby Lobby to opt out of offering coverage for certain contraceptives, the Supreme Court set a precedent that religious freedom protections could be extended to private corporations, rather than just individuals or religious groups, and could be used to justify exemptions that could impact the rights of others – in that case, the right of Hobby Lobby employees to have access to contraceptives through company insurance.
In his majority opinion, Justice Samuel Alito tried his best to limit the ruling to the particular set of circumstances in the case. However, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg argued in her dissent that the court “ventured into a minefield.” Less than a year later, it appears Bader Ginsburg was correct.
First, with an emergency injunction in another contraceptive case , the Supreme Court soon suggested that its interpretation of the religious freedom law was broader than the Hobby Lobby opinion initially laid out.
Next, despite Alito’s assurance that the decision provided “no such shield” to discriminate (using race, not sexual orientation, as an example), the ruling was taken as a signal by anti-gay lobbyists and some lawmakers that religious freedom legislation could be used to do just that. And it’s not a coincidence that the bills in Indiana and Arkansas were written to make explicit their religious freedom laws covered private companies and were applicable in cases that didn’t necessarily concern government action.
Whether courts would have agreed with such an interpretation is still up for debate, but LGBT rights activists were not willing to take the risk. Nor now are Indiana lawmakers with their appeal for the new language.
This Battle May Have Backfired on Anti-Gay Forces
Those in Indiana who believed the religious freedom law would have allowed businesses to discriminate against gay people instead have on their hands a law explicitly refuting that understanding.​​
But more than this particular proposal, the national battle over the law increased momentum toward broader discrimination protections for LGBT people. Sunday, Pence said civil nondiscrimination protections for LGBT people were “not on my agenda.” Thursday, his fellow Republicans in the statehouse said "that discussion has begun," as House Speaker Brian Bosma put it, even if they were not a part of the specific fix under negotiation.
Likewise, Hutchinson said Wednesday that in addition to the changes he hoped to see to that state's religious freedom bill, he was also considering an executive order outlawing discrimination in the employment of state workers in order to send a message of inclusion. He added that such protections for all LGBT workers is worthy of debate by way of legislation or a ballot initiative.
Some Republicans are still insisting that discussing more rights for LGBT people is unnecessary; likely 2016 presidential candidate  Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., objected even to the concept of “gay rights.” But the question is now on the front burner, not just in the states that lack such protections but for the coming presidential election.
Maybe the Indiana law would have led to LGBT discrimination, maybe those charges are overblown. But there's no escaping that's now the focus of the conversation.
Updated on April 2, 2015: This story has been updated to reflect the passage of religious freedom legislation in Arkansas and Indiana.
TAGS:
April 2, 2015
Copyright 2015 © U.S. News & World Report LP.

