Rand Paul shunned by NRA over National Association for Gun Rights ties
Sen. Rand Paul, Kentucky Republican, is under fire from the NRA due to his support of the NAGR, a rival gun rights advocacy group. (Associated Press) more >
By Kelly Riddell -      The Washington Times -                                    Thursday, April 9, 2015
As more than a dozen possible 2016 Republican presidential hopefuls take the stage to address the National Rifle Association ’s Leadership Forum on Friday, one name will notably be missing from the lineup: Sen. Rand Paul .
Mr. Paul , a strong gun rights advocate who formally announced his bid for the presidency this week, has not received any formal endorsements or money from the nation’s largest and most politically potent gun lobby despite his “A” voting record rating from the NRA .
“We did not extend an invitation to Sen. Rand Paul , and he didn’t request to be invited,” said NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker, blaming the packed lineup and scheduling restraints for Mr. Paul ’s absence. Mr. Paul and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie are two of the only top-tier GOP 2016 hopefuls not speaking at the NRA function.
Insiders, however, say it’s because of Mr. Paul ’s association with the National Association for Gun Rights ( NAGR ), a rival pro-gun rights umbrella group, that has angered other gun rights advocates, who accuse the group of misleading mailings and headline-stealing tactics.
NAGR was founded by Mike Rothfeld , a direct mail prodigy and owner of Virginia-based Saber Communications , to which Mr. Paul and his political action committees paid $2.6 million for services during the 2014 election cycle. The Kentucky senator’s father, Rep. Ron Paul of Texas, paid Saber about $7.7 million for work it did for his 2012 presidential campaign, according to Federal Election Commission filings.
Saber also handles the direct mail of NAGR and such other conservative groups as National Right to Work and National Pro-Life Alliance, maintaining all of their contact lists.
More recently, the younger Mr. Paul ’s Reinventing a New Direction ( RAND ) political action committee paid Saber $7,400 last Dec. 23 to rent its mailing lists and contact names, according to FEC filings. Last election cycle, RAND PAC spent $216,452 to maintain access to Saber ’s database.
“I am a professional junk mailer,” Mr. Rothfeld said at a lecture entitled “The Real Nature of Politics,” which was posted on YouTube two years ago. “I am a professional telemarketer. I’m a professional spammer — like, a hundred million pieces of emails a month. And I’m a professional negative campaigner. And I’m damn proud of all four.”
Mr. Rothfeld declined to discuss his business with The Washington Times, but NAGR officials portray the group as more conservative and effective than the NRA , which it claims is too connected to the official power structure in Washington.
All of Mr. Rothfeld ’s mailings cast a wide net, reaching as many conservatives as possible, and critics say the company then aims to draw the recipient into the campaign by frightening them on issues or legislation that establishment figures don’t entertain as threats.
NAGR has branded itself as the conservative alternative to the NRA , one not beholden to Washington insiders. But some Second Amendment advocates think the group’s main claim to fame is stoking the fears of the less-informed for-profit.
Last month, the group’s affiliate in Mississippi, as labeled on NAGR ’s website, sent a letter to pro-gun advocates urging them to donate money so they could help fight a state bill to mark ammunition. The only problem was there was no bill.
“Just recently, the Mississippi Registration Ammo Bill (S.B. 2030) was introduced,” wrote Mississippi Gun Rights in a letter dated March 16 and obtained by The Washington Times. “This is nothing more than an underhanded attempt to GUT our gun rights here in Mississippi!”
The bill NAGR ’s letter was referring to — S.B. 2030 — was actually legislation dealing with the education reform program Common Core, and the ammunition bill the group was referencing (S.B. 2219) had died in committee a month before the mailing was sent.
“Sometimes there’s a legitimate need to sound the alarm bells when there’s actual danger on the horizon,” said George Whitten Jr., who received the letter from the group. “But this was just deceiving — making up a danger and deceiving people on their mailing list so they would send more money to help defeat a bill that was already dead.”
Shares
Question of the Day
Is President Obama right that a nuke deal with Iran will make U.S. safer?
Question of the Day
Before joining The Times, Kelly was a Washington-based reporter for Bloomberg News for six years, covering the intersection between business and politics through a variety of industry-based beats. She most recently covered technology, where her reports ranged from cybersecurity to congressional policymakers.
Before joining Bloomberg, she was a management consultant ...
Latest Stories

