(Adds details, shares, CEO comments)
By Anya George Tharakan
May 26 (Reuters) - Digital video recorder maker TiVo Inc  reported better-than-expected quarterly revenue and profit, helped by higher subscriptions.
Shares of the company, which also said it bought Poland-based Cubiware, rose 6.2 percent in extended trading on Tuesday.
TiVo's set-top boxes are in high demand from cable users as they also allow access to online video services such as Netflix Inc, Hulu and Google Inc's YouTube.
The company's total subscriptions rose about 27 percent to 5.8 million in the first quarter ended April 30.
TiVo, whose clients include DirecTV, is trying to partner with more cable TV operators to grow its business.
TiVo sells subscriptions directly to consumers with its video recorders and also licenses its technology to cable TV operators that rent recorders to subscribers.
The company sells its products through cable TV partners such as Virgin Media in the UK, ONO in Spain and Com Hem AB  in Sweden.
TiVo said the acquisition of Poland-based Cubiware would allow it to expand into 25 countries.
Cubiware, which provides software for pay-TV operators, has customers across Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
"We will continue to look at acquisitions that we think make strategic sense," TiVo Chief Executive Tom Rogers said in an interview, adding that the company is looking at "a lot of things."
TiVo expects the deal to add to adjusted EBITDA in the year ending Jan. 31.
TiVo's net income fell to $7.9 million in the first quarter, from $8.1 million a year earlier, hurt by higher costs. On a per-share basis, however, profit rose by a cent to 8 cents on lower share count.
Total revenue costs rose about 16 percent to $44.1 million.
Net revenue rose about 7.2 percent to $114.7 million.
Analysts on average had expected a profit of 7 cents per share and revenue of $91.5 million, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
The San Jose, California-based company's shares, which closed at $10.36 on the Nasdaq, were at $10.84 after the bell.   (Reporting by Anya George Tharakan in Bengaluru; Editing by Maju Samuel)
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


TiVo Reports Better-Than-Expected Profit And Revenue For Last Quarter
May 26, 2015 10:29 PM EDT  | By Michael Smith
(Photo : Getty Images, Justin Sullivan)
The digital video recorder company TiVo has reported revenue and profit results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 that exceeded analyst estimates. 
The company's total revenue costs rose by approximately 16 percent to $44.1 million while its net revenue rose approximately 7.2 percent to $114.7 million, Reuters reports. Previous revenue estimates were slated at $91.5 million. 
Like Us on Facebook
Following news of Tuesday's announcement, TiVo's stock shares rose 6.2 percent. TiVo officials also revealed plans for an acquisition of Cubiware, a Poland-based digital television software company. 
"We will continue to look at acquisitions that we think make strategic sense," TiVo Chief Executive Tom Rogers said in an interview with Reuters . 
Rogers also added that the company is looking at "a lot of things."
Although Cubiware is based in Poland, the company conducts business all across the world. In fact, TiVo's acquisition is expected to help the digital video recorder company expand into 25 new countries. 
 
 
Get the Most Popular Franchiseherald Stories in a Weekly  Newsletter
Â© 2015 Franchise Herald. All rights reserved.
TRENDING ON THE WEB
Most Popular
RANK

