(Adds details, shares, CEO comments)
By Anya George Tharakan
May 26 (Reuters) - Digital video recorder maker TiVo Inc  reported better-than-expected quarterly revenue and profit, helped by higher subscriptions.
Shares of the company, which also said it bought Poland-based Cubiware, rose 6.2 percent in extended trading on Tuesday.
TiVo's set-top boxes are in high demand from cable users as they also allow access to online video services such as Netflix Inc, Hulu and Google Inc's YouTube.
The company's total subscriptions rose about 27 percent to 5.8 million in the first quarter ended April 30.
TiVo, whose clients include DirecTV, is trying to partner with more cable TV operators to grow its business.
TiVo sells subscriptions directly to consumers with its video recorders and also licenses its technology to cable TV operators that rent recorders to subscribers.
The company sells its products through cable TV partners such as Virgin Media in the UK, ONO in Spain and Com Hem AB  in Sweden.
TiVo said the acquisition of Poland-based Cubiware would allow it to expand into 25 countries.
Cubiware, which provides software for pay-TV operators, has customers across Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
"We will continue to look at acquisitions that we think make strategic sense," TiVo Chief Executive Tom Rogers said in an interview, adding that the company is looking at "a lot of things."
TiVo expects the deal to add to adjusted EBITDA in the year ending Jan. 31.
TiVo's net income fell to $7.9 million in the first quarter, from $8.1 million a year earlier, hurt by higher costs. On a per-share basis, however, profit rose by a cent to 8 cents on lower share count.
Total revenue costs rose about 16 percent to $44.1 million.
Net revenue rose about 7.2 percent to $114.7 million.
Analysts on average had expected a profit of 7 cents per share and revenue of $91.5 million, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
The San Jose, California-based company's shares, which closed at $10.36 on the Nasdaq, were at $10.84 after the bell.   (Reporting by Anya George Tharakan in Bengaluru; Editing by Maju Samuel)
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


Sent to 1,564 people who get email alerts on TIVO.
Get email alerts on TIVO »
To screen ETFs by asset class, performance, yield and more, check out the ETF Hub. ETF Hub
TiVo +5.2% on FQ1 beat, strong guidance; acquisition announced
Along with its FQ1 results, TIVO has announced it's acquiring Cubiware , a Polish developer of low-cost set-top and portal server software for emerging markets pay-TV providers. Terms are undisclosed; presumably, offshore cash is being used.
TiVo states Cubiware's offerings will expand its presence in 25 countries, thereby helping it cross-sell its existing offerings overseas. Altogether, Cubiware claims ~40M Latin American and EMEA customers possessing 12M pay-TV subs between them. The deal follows last year's purchase of content discovery service provider Digitalsmiths .
Helping shares rally: TiVo has guided for FQ2 service/tech revenue of $94M-$97M, above a $93.6M consensus. Net income guidance is at $7M-$10M.
Subscriber data: FQ1 net subscriber adds totaled 285K, down from 332K a year ago and bringing the base to 5.76M. MSO subs rose by 285K to 4.81M; TiVo-owned subs were roughly flat at 944K. TiVo-owned ARPU fell to $7.43 from FQ4's $7.68 and the year-ago period's $7.81.
Business performance: Service revenue +11% Y/Y to $39.8M; tech revenue (licensing) +5% to $52.6M; hardware revenue +6% to $22.3M. MSO service revenue rose 41% Y/Y, and Digitalsmiths revenue roughly doubled.
Financials: GAAP operating expenses rose by $1M Y/Y to $52.5M. $27.9M was spent on buybacks. TiVo ended FQ1 with $686M in cash, and $354M in convertible debt.
Check out Seeking Alpha’s new Earnings Center »
Share this  with a colleague
From other sites
Comments (0)
All (0) Author's Picks ()
 
ETF Hub
ETF Screener: Search and filter by asset class, strategy, theme, performance, yield, and much more
ETF Performance: View ETF performance across key asset classes and investing themes
ETF Investing Guide: Learn how to build and manage a well-diversified, low cost ETF portfolio
ETF Selector: An explanation of how to select and use ETFs
Next headline on your portfolio:
x

