(Adds details, shares, CEO comments)
By Anya George Tharakan
May 26 (Reuters) - Digital video recorder maker TiVo Inc  reported better-than-expected quarterly revenue and profit, helped by higher subscriptions.
Shares of the company, which also said it bought Poland-based Cubiware, rose 6.2 percent in extended trading on Tuesday.
TiVo's set-top boxes are in high demand from cable users as they also allow access to online video services such as Netflix Inc, Hulu and Google Inc's YouTube.
The company's total subscriptions rose about 27 percent to 5.8 million in the first quarter ended April 30.
TiVo, whose clients include DirecTV, is trying to partner with more cable TV operators to grow its business.
TiVo sells subscriptions directly to consumers with its video recorders and also licenses its technology to cable TV operators that rent recorders to subscribers.
The company sells its products through cable TV partners such as Virgin Media in the UK, ONO in Spain and Com Hem AB  in Sweden.
TiVo said the acquisition of Poland-based Cubiware would allow it to expand into 25 countries.
Cubiware, which provides software for pay-TV operators, has customers across Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
"We will continue to look at acquisitions that we think make strategic sense," TiVo Chief Executive Tom Rogers said in an interview, adding that the company is looking at "a lot of things."
TiVo expects the deal to add to adjusted EBITDA in the year ending Jan. 31.
TiVo's net income fell to $7.9 million in the first quarter, from $8.1 million a year earlier, hurt by higher costs. On a per-share basis, however, profit rose by a cent to 8 cents on lower share count.
Total revenue costs rose about 16 percent to $44.1 million.
Net revenue rose about 7.2 percent to $114.7 million.
Analysts on average had expected a profit of 7 cents per share and revenue of $91.5 million, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
The San Jose, California-based company's shares, which closed at $10.36 on the Nasdaq, were at $10.84 after the bell.   (Reporting by Anya George Tharakan in Bengaluru; Editing by Maju Samuel)
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


Posted:
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) — TiVo Inc. attracted another 285,000 subscribers to its digital video recording technology during its fiscal first quarter, helping propel the company to a performance that exceeded analysts' projections.
The results announced Tuesday lifted TiVo's slumping stock by more than 4 percent in extended trading.
TiVo also announced it is buying Cubiware, a Polish maker of software that helps pay-TV providers design and manage the interactive menus for their services. The deal represents TiVo's latest attempt to expand its presence in markets outside the U.S. Terms of the acquisition weren't disclosed.
TiVo earned $7.9 million, or 8 cents per share, during the three months ending in April. That represented a 3 percent dip from income of $8.1 million, or 7 cents per share, at the same time last year. The decline was driven largely by an additional $1.8 million in interest expenses stemming from debt taken on last September.
Advertisement
The per-share earnings in the most recent quarter were a penny above the average estimate of analysts polled by Zacks Investment Research.
Revenue for the quarter totaled $114.7 million — nearly $3 million higher than analysts' predictions.
The San Jose, California, company ended April with 5.76 million subscribers, up from 5.47 million in January. Most of those subscribers were picked up through TiVo's partnerships with pay-TV providers. TiVo added 39,000 households that subscribe to its service directly through the company during the fiscal first quarter.
_____

