Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
TV and Radio
Today in 'things we once thought would only happen in our most wonderful dreams', comedian Amy Schumer has been officially offered a chance to become the next Bachelorette.
The 33-year-old made a guest appearance on the American reality show this week and the reception from Bachelorette audiences was so great, ABC officials want her to become next season's contestant.
On Monday night in the US, the Inside Amy Schumer star was given the job of coaching male Bachelorette contestants before a night of stand-up comedy.
Advertisement
Schumer was hilarious in her critque of contestants, including the season's 'bad guy' JJ, who she labelled a "turd".
"JJ's a sweetheart, he's just missing charisma and humility and a sense of humour, but other than that, you should basically hire him as the next Bachelor," Schumer said.
Bachelorette fans were so impressed with her guest appearance that Twitter was flooded with requests for Schumer to become a regular on the show with the hashtag #DraftAmy.
ABC's senior vice president of alternative series, specials and late-night programming Robert Mills saw the opportunity and used Twitter to "officially" offer Schumer the role as the next Bachelorette.
"Just say yes and we start tomorrow," Mills tweeted.
OK here is the official offer to @amyschumer to become #TheBachelorette . Just say yes and we start tomorrow. #DraftAmy
In her true self-deprecating fashion, the comedian replied to Mills with a photo of herself awkwardly suspended on cables along with the promising caption "Here I come!!"
While there's no official word from ABC on whether Schumer is actually being considered for the role, we're hoping the #DraftAmy campaign works. A season of Schumer giving her courters some tough Amy love? Count us in. 
Oh God ABC please pay @amyschumer whatever she wants to do weekly #bachelorette commentary.
Can Amy Schumer please do running commentary in a little box on the bottom right hand corner of every episode of the #Bachelorette
Omg @amyschumer please stick around and provide commentary through the final rose. Please. #bachelorette
All I want for Chanukah, Christmas, Kwanzaa, my birthday...is Amy Schumer as the next #Bachelorette .
If @amyschumer goes on the next season of The Bachelorette, I'm pretty sure my wife will give me a pass to audition for the show.
If Amy Schumer was the Bachelorette it would be the greatest feat of television yet
Amy Schumer for the next Bachelorette... Am I right?
Channel
Channel
Channel
Channel
Channel
Channel
Browse TV and Radio
Browse TV and radio
26,143 online now
contact us

