By Alexandra Jaffe CNN
WASHINGTON (CNN) -
Secret Service agents have one of the toughest jobs in Washington: They are expected, if necessary, to put their lives on the line in the protection of the President and his family.
More from KSPR.com
They've also had to teach a teen to drive.
First Lady Michelle Obama revealed this week that her older daughter, 16-year-old Malia, was taught to drive by the Secret Service and occasionally drives outside the White House grounds on her own.
"The Secret Service [taught her], actually, because they wouldn't let me in the car with her," Obama told television host Rachel Ray in an interview that's set to air Thursday.
It's a good thing, too, as the First Lady told Ray she hasn't driven in seven or eight years, and admitted earlier this week she's forgotten some of the basics.
During a Monday interview on "Live! With Kelly and Michael," Obama said that when Malia asked her for advice on how to park in a public lot, the First Lady wasn't sure.
"I barely know now too so I have to check with other sources," she said.
Obama said that while Malia is typically covered by a security detail, she has driven on her own.
"She always has security around. But in order for her to learn how to drive, she had to drive on her own. So once she was legally permitted to drive on her own, she gets in her car," she said.
Allowing Malia to drive, Obama told Ray, is part of her parents' effort to give their kids as normal a life as possible, despite their unusual upbringing.
"Driving for Malia, I think, gives her a sense of normalcy, like the rest of her friends are doing. And my kids have got to learn how to live in the world like normal kids," she said.
Copyright 2015 by CNN NewSource . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Comments
The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. Please note by clicking on "Post" you acknowledge that you have read the Terms Of Service and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. 
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

