Aim higher, reach further.
Get the Wall Street Journal $12 for 12 weeks. Subscribe Now
http://www.wsj.com/articles/how-shorts-caused-umpire-to-be-on-nadals-banned-list-1432689060
ENLARGE
Rafael Nadal reacts after beating Quentin Halys at the French Open. Photo: pascal rossignol/Reuters
May 26, 2015 9:11 p.m. ET
There’s a lesson here for every tennis umpire: don’t upset Rafael Nadal. Especially if his shorts are on backward.
But that is exactly what Brazilian chair umpire Carlos Bernardes did in a match in Rio de Janeiro in late February. Nadal was into the third set of a match against Pablo Cuevas when he realized that his shorts were the wrong way round. He asked Bernardes for permission to fix the situation, but appeared to receive a time warning for taking too long when he did.
Nadal subsequently asked that Bernardes not work any of his matches on the tour. This was first reported by Britain’s Daily Telegraph and confirmed by Nadal at Roland Garros on Tuesday.
“I think is better for both of us if we are not in court at the same time for a while after what happened in Rio de Janeiro,” Nadal said. “That’s it. No problem with him personally.”
Nadal lodged the request with the ATP and Bernardes hasn't been on court with him since. Bernardes holds the highest available certification for international chair umpires—the gold badge, which is awarded “following a review of their work rate and performance,” according to the International Tennis Federation.
“A number of factors are taken into consideration in the umpire selection process at ATP events, including badge qualifications, nationality, as well as any previous history or incidents,” an ATP spokesman wrote in an email. “This criteria is used across the board at all ATP events and in relation to all players, with the objective of achieving the highest standards of officiating possible.”
The ATP added that umpires are occasionally kept away from players they have clashed with, but that the final decision rests with the organization’s tournament supervisor.
“If I put my shorts other way and I ask him if I can change my shorts, I can put my shorts the right way, and his answer is, ‘Yes, but you will receive a time warning…’ For me, that is not fair, you know?” Nadal said.
“I think it, you know, shows not respect, because I cannot play a full game with the shorts the other way. So it’s better. It’s better to be away for a while,” he said.
—Joshua Robinson
For Eugenie Bouchard, the Nightmare Continues
Eugenie Bouchard is perfecting a disquieting tennis skill: losing. The 21-year-old Bouchard, last year’s breakout star in women’s tennis and a semifinalist in Paris, lost in the first round of the French Open on Tuesday, 6-4, 6-4 to 44th-ranked Kristina Mladenovic.
This is Bouchard’s eighth loss in nine matches, including two against much lower-ranked players in a Fed Cup team competition between Canada and Romania. Bouchard is now 7-10 this season and her ranking, currently, No. 6, could soon suffer. She will have to defend more ranking points at Wimbledon, where she reached the final last year.
—Tom Perrotta
Save Article
Copyright ©2015 Dow Jones & Company , Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved

