R.I.'s Chafee's decision to mull run for presidency surprises many
Comment
By Thomas Mooney
Journal Staff Writer
Posted Apr. 9, 2015 at 11:15 PM
PROVIDENCE, R.I. – Former Gov. Lincoln D. Chafee, who left office in January with poor job-approval ratings and appeared to dismiss running for another office -- “I’ve pretty much covered the landscape” -- shocked the local political world Thursday by announcing he’s mulling a run for president.
Chafee, who is 62, announced his intention on a new website, Chafee2016.com, and in a news release, stating he was forming an exploratory committee to consider a run for the 2016 Democratic Party nomination.
Chafee, a former Warwick mayor and U.S. senator who over the span of his political career has been a Republican, an independent and a Democrat, said he will spend the next few months in New Hampshire, Iowa and other key battleground states, asking voters whether his “independent thinking and fresh ideas for the future” are  what’s needed in the next presidential campaign.
Chafee’s plans came as an utter surprise to many, including state Democratic Party Chairman Joseph McNamara, who said he was at the gym Thursday morning when people began running up to him on the elliptical machine asking if he had heard the news.
The manner of the announcement "reflects the governor’s style," McNamara said.
McNamara said he didn’t know if Chafee had reached out to the state party for any help, and he was noncommittal about whether the party would help him now: “I am sure there are going to be other candidates that go through the same process, and I’m expecting some announcements in the next few weeks. We certainly wish him the best.”
“Oh my God!” was the reaction from Brandon Bell, chairman of the Rhode Island Republican Party. “On behalf of the Rhode Island GOP, I must say I agree with Governor Chafee: Hillary Clinton is wrong for this country. He’s right. She shouldn’t be president.”
In a statement, Chafee said, “Throughout my career, I exercised good judgment on a wide range of high-pressure decisions, decisions that require level-headedness and careful foresight. Often these decisions came in the face of political adversity.”
Chafee, whose communication skills were often criticized in his four years as governor, reminds viewers early in a video on his website that as a U.S. senator he voted against invading Iraq while much of a “complicit Congress” gave President Bush authorization to go to war. Clinton, a likely Democratic front-runner in 2016, voted in favor of authorization.
Chafee, who served on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, says unilateral military intervention has damaged American interests around the world and he is “alarmed by the international instability” of the Middle East.
Page 2 of 3 - 'Out of the blue'
Darrell M. West, a political scientist at the Brookings Institute in Washington who taught at Brown University for 26 years, reacted to Chafee’s announcement Thursday with “shock. It’s a surprising announcement.”
West said, “It’s hard to see the rationale of the candidacy.” Chafee “comes from one of the smallest states in the country and is not well-known outside the Northeast. It’s hard to see him competing with the Clinton machine and the other individuals who are exploring their candidacies.”
West said one area where Chafee “could bring some strength to the campaign” is his interest in the environment and civil liberties. Chafee was an early supporter of gay marriage, calling for its legalization in his 2011 inaugural speech. “Those are topics that none of the other presidential candidates are discussing.”
Still, said West, “this seems to have come out of the blue. He doesn’t appear to have consulted that broadly. Typically, you hear rumors of this happening and then weeks go by and then there is an announcement. Here, we got just the announcement.”
Snarky comments
On social media, where snarky commentary can reach art form, Chafee’s announcement was the subject of innumerable wise-cracks, with participants wondering if it was some kind of April fool’s joke or an Onion satirical piece.
“It was blowing up my Twitter feed,” said Jennifer Duffy, a senior editor for The Cook Political Report, in Washington, D.C.
Duffy, who has Rhode Island roots, said, Chafee “left office very unpopular, and so nobody in the state can see how he would win his own state” -- let alone the nomination. “So this is why you are getting the reaction you are getting. When was the last time a presidential nominee won without winning his own state?”
Running for president, Duffy said, demands two things Chafee abhorred: raising money and campaigning in small circles. “So what you would have to do in Iowa alone does not exactly play to his strengths, like meeting 10 voters at a time from one corner of Iowa to the next.”
  
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
providencejournal.com | 75 Fountain St., Providence, RI 02902

