14 shares
With a little more than seven minutes left and the Cleveland Cavaliers up by 26 points, Matthew Dellavedova pulled off what his coach would later describe as one of the great shots in NBA history.
The coach, David Blatt, was being a little sarcastic.
But for the Cavaliers, Dellavedova's one-handed tap-in with his feet barely off the ground and an Atlanta Hawk hanging off his left arm was the moment Blatt, the team's leader LeBron James and the rest of the squad realised they were heading to the NBA Finals.
A party erupted on their bench.
"I think that came in a very, very memorable moment - maybe the greatest below the rim tap-in in the history of the game," Blatt laughed.
"He wasn't up over the rim, but he made it look natural and special just like that kid is."
Soon after Dellavedova sank that ordinary looking, but extraordinary to the Cavaliers shot, Blatt subbed his Australian point guard out and the delirious 20,562 crowd in Cleveland's Quicken Loans Arena fired up a "Delly, Delly, Delly" chant that had been a regular feature throughout the game.
The Cavaliers won 118-88 and swept the Hawks 4-0.
Blatt revealed in the press conference Dellavedova was ill and probably shouldn't have played.
It explained why the coach rotated starting point guard Kyrie Irving, who sat out recent games with knee tendinitis and other injuries, in short bursts with Dellavedova.
"You know what, Delly could barely get off the bench today," Blatt said.
"He was very sick."
Just a few months ago the Cavaliers were looking to sign a back-up point guard to replace 24-year-old Dellavedova, who was born and raised in Maryborough, in country Victoria.
Today Dellavedova is one of Cleveland's favourite players, with a cult status among fans after three headline-making incidents in the playoffs.
Loved in Cleveland, it is a different story in Atlanta and Chicago, with Delly probably not safe to walk the streets without a security detail.
The first incident came when Dellavedova performed a wrestling-like hold on Chicago Bulls forward Taj Gibson and irritated Gibson so much he kicked Delly in the backside and was ejected.
The second came last Friday when Dellavedova crashed into the ankle of Atlanta's Kyle Korver and inflicted a sprain so severe Korver's season was over and he'll have surgery later this week.
Then on Sunday Dellavedova became tangled with Hawk Al Horford who lashed out when he believed the Australian had purposely targeted his knees.
Debate raged across America about whether Delly was a dirty player.
The consensus was he just played hard.
One thing that isn't up for debate - Dellavedova is one of the NBA's rising stars.
A rap song has been written about him.
His singlet sales have skyrocketed.
In the past month his @MatthewDelly Twitter followers have increased 50 per cent.
In the five-month regular season he was mentioned on Twitter 45,000 times, but on the day of the Horford incident he was mentioned 40,000 times.
After Atlanta were knocked out, Dellavedova, a slow-talking country Victorian lad who was once described by Australian Olympic coach Brett Brown as "Neanderthal", explained in his usual low key way how he's been able to handle the attention.
"I have great teammates and great family and friends," he said.
Share or comment on this article
14
shares
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Bing
Site
Web
DON'T MISS
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
 
 
 

