14 shares
With a little more than seven minutes left and the Cleveland Cavaliers up by 26 points, Matthew Dellavedova pulled off what his coach would later describe as one of the great shots in NBA history.
The coach, David Blatt, was being a little sarcastic.
But for the Cavaliers, Dellavedova's one-handed tap-in with his feet barely off the ground and an Atlanta Hawk hanging off his left arm was the moment Blatt, the team's leader LeBron James and the rest of the squad realised they were heading to the NBA Finals.
A party erupted on their bench.
"I think that came in a very, very memorable moment - maybe the greatest below the rim tap-in in the history of the game," Blatt laughed.
"He wasn't up over the rim, but he made it look natural and special just like that kid is."
Soon after Dellavedova sank that ordinary looking, but extraordinary to the Cavaliers shot, Blatt subbed his Australian point guard out and the delirious 20,562 crowd in Cleveland's Quicken Loans Arena fired up a "Delly, Delly, Delly" chant that had been a regular feature throughout the game.
The Cavaliers won 118-88 and swept the Hawks 4-0.
Blatt revealed in the press conference Dellavedova was ill and probably shouldn't have played.
It explained why the coach rotated starting point guard Kyrie Irving, who sat out recent games with knee tendinitis and other injuries, in short bursts with Dellavedova.
"You know what, Delly could barely get off the bench today," Blatt said.
"He was very sick."
Just a few months ago the Cavaliers were looking to sign a back-up point guard to replace 24-year-old Dellavedova, who was born and raised in Maryborough, in country Victoria.
Today Dellavedova is one of Cleveland's favourite players, with a cult status among fans after three headline-making incidents in the playoffs.
Loved in Cleveland, it is a different story in Atlanta and Chicago, with Delly probably not safe to walk the streets without a security detail.
The first incident came when Dellavedova performed a wrestling-like hold on Chicago Bulls forward Taj Gibson and irritated Gibson so much he kicked Delly in the backside and was ejected.
The second came last Friday when Dellavedova crashed into the ankle of Atlanta's Kyle Korver and inflicted a sprain so severe Korver's season was over and he'll have surgery later this week.
Then on Sunday Dellavedova became tangled with Hawk Al Horford who lashed out when he believed the Australian had purposely targeted his knees.
Debate raged across America about whether Delly was a dirty player.
The consensus was he just played hard.
One thing that isn't up for debate - Dellavedova is one of the NBA's rising stars.
A rap song has been written about him.
His singlet sales have skyrocketed.
In the past month his @MatthewDelly Twitter followers have increased 50 per cent.
In the five-month regular season he was mentioned on Twitter 45,000 times, but on the day of the Horford incident he was mentioned 40,000 times.
After Atlanta were knocked out, Dellavedova, a slow-talking country Victorian lad who was once described by Australian Olympic coach Brett Brown as "Neanderthal", explained in his usual low key way how he's been able to handle the attention.
"I have great teammates and great family and friends," he said.
Share or comment on this article
14
shares
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Bing
Site
Web
DON'T MISS
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
 
 
 


Contributed by admin on May 26, 2015 at 10:08 pm
“He beats the odds, and he comes to play as hard as he can every single night”. He said it hurt to not be out there with his teammates.
Days earlier, Dellavedova dived for a loose ball but also collected Atlanta sharp-shooter Kyle Korver, resulting in Korver being ruled out of the playoffs with an ankle injury.
But while Horford was the one sent walking to the locker room, it’s Dellavedova who’s creating the most controversial buzz.
Dellavedova said TV replays told the story, that Horford pulled him down.
Horford stopped short of calling Dellavedova dirty.
No, it’s Matthew Dellavedova acting as the guy you’d most like to see on the receiving end of a real, honest-to-goodness Flagrant Two elbow. Delly plays hard; he’s not going to try to hurt anybody.
Over the course of the past three weeks, Dellavedova has evaded official scrutiny for putting a leg lock on Taj Gibson during the Cavs second-round win over Chicago. Korver will miss the rest of the postseason because of a high right ankle sprain suffered on the play.
Not everything is black and white.
Dellavedova a “dirty player”, say United States media.
Matthew Dellavedova’s growing reputation as a dirty player – deserved or not – preceded him Sunday night.
With the Hawks on the brink of elimination, even the radio broadcasters have had enough of Dellavedova’s antics. “Get the menace off the floor!” How would that Cavs player (and Cavs fans) have responded? “Great play Delly!” If anything this will just get him going a little more.
His coming out party came in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference Semifinals against the Chicago Bulls, a game after the Gibson incident, when he led the Cavs with 19 points on 7-of-11 shooting, including 3-of-6 from behind the three-point line. They want to protective their lucrative, short-term livelihood. There are respectable basketball minds on both sides of the issues, and some didn’t like the look of Dellavedova falling into Horford’s legs.
Horford’s flagrant foul 2 in Game 3 will stand, but there will be no additional punishment from the NBA, according to league spokesman Tim Kuck.
In Game 1 against the Hawks he went scoreless, missing six shots, four from 3-point range.
Upon hearing the allegations, LeBron James got mad and defended his teammate.
Dellavedova made it to the NBA with his energetic reckless abandon, and maybe that’s the crux of the issue.
Finding a fearless competitor, even if he does have an irritating penchant for instigation, seems to be just what they need. He just plays hard.
This year certainly ended on a rough note for Korver and Atlanta. “I do not think it was malicious, but he has to learn”. Kelly’s similar to the aggressive guy in your pickup game who isn’t highly skilled, and can rub others the wrong way with overall intensity. In totality, he saw all the varying shades of gray.
Cleveland Cavaliers vs. Atlanta Hawks: Game 3 broadcast diary
Recent Posts
Copyright © 2015 Rapid News Network. All Rights Reserved.

