14 shares
With a little more than seven minutes left and the Cleveland Cavaliers up by 26 points, Matthew Dellavedova pulled off what his coach would later describe as one of the great shots in NBA history.
The coach, David Blatt, was being a little sarcastic.
But for the Cavaliers, Dellavedova's one-handed tap-in with his feet barely off the ground and an Atlanta Hawk hanging off his left arm was the moment Blatt, the team's leader LeBron James and the rest of the squad realised they were heading to the NBA Finals.
A party erupted on their bench.
"I think that came in a very, very memorable moment - maybe the greatest below the rim tap-in in the history of the game," Blatt laughed.
"He wasn't up over the rim, but he made it look natural and special just like that kid is."
Soon after Dellavedova sank that ordinary looking, but extraordinary to the Cavaliers shot, Blatt subbed his Australian point guard out and the delirious 20,562 crowd in Cleveland's Quicken Loans Arena fired up a "Delly, Delly, Delly" chant that had been a regular feature throughout the game.
The Cavaliers won 118-88 and swept the Hawks 4-0.
Blatt revealed in the press conference Dellavedova was ill and probably shouldn't have played.
It explained why the coach rotated starting point guard Kyrie Irving, who sat out recent games with knee tendinitis and other injuries, in short bursts with Dellavedova.
"You know what, Delly could barely get off the bench today," Blatt said.
"He was very sick."
Just a few months ago the Cavaliers were looking to sign a back-up point guard to replace 24-year-old Dellavedova, who was born and raised in Maryborough, in country Victoria.
Today Dellavedova is one of Cleveland's favourite players, with a cult status among fans after three headline-making incidents in the playoffs.
Loved in Cleveland, it is a different story in Atlanta and Chicago, with Delly probably not safe to walk the streets without a security detail.
The first incident came when Dellavedova performed a wrestling-like hold on Chicago Bulls forward Taj Gibson and irritated Gibson so much he kicked Delly in the backside and was ejected.
The second came last Friday when Dellavedova crashed into the ankle of Atlanta's Kyle Korver and inflicted a sprain so severe Korver's season was over and he'll have surgery later this week.
Then on Sunday Dellavedova became tangled with Hawk Al Horford who lashed out when he believed the Australian had purposely targeted his knees.
Debate raged across America about whether Delly was a dirty player.
The consensus was he just played hard.
One thing that isn't up for debate - Dellavedova is one of the NBA's rising stars.
A rap song has been written about him.
His singlet sales have skyrocketed.
In the past month his @MatthewDelly Twitter followers have increased 50 per cent.
In the five-month regular season he was mentioned on Twitter 45,000 times, but on the day of the Horford incident he was mentioned 40,000 times.
After Atlanta were knocked out, Dellavedova, a slow-talking country Victorian lad who was once described by Australian Olympic coach Brett Brown as "Neanderthal", explained in his usual low key way how he's been able to handle the attention.
"I have great teammates and great family and friends," he said.
Share or comment on this article
14
shares
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Bing
Site
Web
DON'T MISS
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
 
 
 


United States media brands Cleveland Cavaliers’ Matthew Dellavedova a ‘dirty player’
Contributed by admin on May 26, 2015 at 9:22 pm
When the final horn sounded, James collapsed to the floor and had to be helped to his feet by his teammates. This postseason is showing why. With all that evidence, is Delly dirty?
But Cleveland has James, and even on a night when his shot wasn’t falling, he carried the Cavaliers, who can earn their first trip to the Finals since James took them there in 2007. To the surprise of no one, James is a big reason why. The Rockets went on to win and extend their series. He also won the Jason Collier Memorial Trophy in 2009 for his work in the community.
“Til I die I’ll hustle like Delly”. He’s not a dirty player, but his style can aggravate guys.
Dellavedova and Horford were fighting for rebounding position when Dellavedova stumbled over Atlanta forward DeMarre Carroll and fell into Horford’s right leg. Horford admitted as much himself. “If it was on purpose, we do not know”. Maybe it wasn’t on purpose. “But, you know, with just his track record, I just felt like it was”. Though, he could be a little more careful next time. He’s a hard-nosed player. I looked at that play countless times and clearly see the malice and intention. So there’s got to be a fine line between competing and being crazy. LeBron scoffed at all of that. “I think in the case of (Dellevedova), ever since you were a kid, the ball on the floor, the first man to the floor usually gets the ball”. He beats the odds and he comes to play as hard as he can every single night.
“If they’re worried about Delly, they’re worried about the wrong thing, ” James said. He’d be the player we’d all despise if he was wearing another uniform.
“Started out the game just out of character, out of rhythm”. How would that Cavs player (and Cavs fans) have responded?
I always thought he was the kind of player people love if he’s on their team and despise him if he’s an opponent. I think Al said, ‘Enough of this.’ And he did what he did. Or, who do you think should play that role? “So I protect the ball and kick it out to a teammate”. On the (Horford play), I’m boxing him out. “You can see from the baseline view that he’s pulling my arm”. “I mean, the tape’s there”.
Dellavedova: “I saw the ball”. A suspension would be devastating to the Hawks’ survival, which is already on life support. None of the stories have been detrimental to the Cavaliers, but the most recent game has him at the center of attention as the sports world tries to answer the question, “is Dellavedova a “dirty player?'””. If J.R. Smith starts diving into guys legs and injuring them at a clip of one a game, he’s a bad person. He works hard everyday. “He is a guy that will stick (in the NBA)”. Then he played the entire overtime without picking up that sixth foul. At that point, Horford had been the Hawks’ best player with 14 points. “But somebody’s got to do it one day”. A cold tub is our best friend now, ” Shumpert said. He preaches that on the court and preaches that in practice. He went through a pregame workout that lasted nearly an hour before he was again held out. The Cavaliers, despite holding a commanding 3-0 series lead, are still searching for a way to keep Teague from getting to the basket. Howard was assessed a Flagrant 1 and remained in the game.
James said Dellavedova is not trying to take out his rivals, but merely playing aggressive basketball for an injury-hit team that needs such effort.
The potentially decisive Game 4 goes down on Wednesday morning Australian time.
Mike Scott’s Misery and the 2015 NBA Playoffs They’re Related  Posted by Matt Zemek
Recent Posts
Copyright © 2015 Rapid News Network. All Rights Reserved.

