By the numbers
President Obama and Harry Truman have something in common other than political party and an antagonistic Republican Congress: They each hosted six state dinners for foreign heads of state or government. Obama will pull ahead of Truman this year, with lavish black-tie dinners for the leaders of Japan and China, The Associated Press notes , but he will still be far behind his recent peers
Lyndon Johnson hosted the most state dinners of the last 11 presidents, 54, even though he didn't serve two full terms. Ronald Reagan is close behind, with 52, and Jimmy Carter packed 28 state dinners in his four years in office. The White House cites cost as the main factor Obama has shied away from state dinners — each costs about $500,000, paid for by the State Department (in other words, taxpayers) — and says Obama has carried out high-level diplomacy in other ways, including taking foreign leaders to dinner at fancy restaurants and Thomas Jefferson's mansion, Monticello.
If you've missed an episode of your favorite show, you'll probably try to avoid Twitter the next day. But now, Google has a patent that could save you from living in fear of spoilers.
The "anti-spoiler" patent , which the U.S. awarded Google on Tuesday , suggests that Google plans to create a system to track your TV or movie viewing process, using social networks, and the system will hide information about shows or movies you haven't seen. That way, if a friend posts something about a Game of Thrones death, you won't be spoiled before watching the episode.
Quartz explains that Google's system would blur social media posts and create a pop-up warning message before displaying the potential spoiler. However, Google hasn't specified whether the system would be used with Facebook and Twitter, or with other social networks.
The Daily Showdown
 
Jon Stewart had some relatively nice things to say about Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) on Tuesday night's Daily Show — returning the favor, really, since Paul had used a favorable Jon Stewart clip in one of his video packages. But he wasn't a big fan of the pacing of Paul's big campaign launch earlier in the day. "Thirty minutes into the show, I had said more at this event than the guy who was there to announce his candidacy for president," Stewart noted wryly.
Finally, "a long, slow hour after post time," Paul came on stage to declare his candidacy, Stewart said. "At this point, even Hillary Clinton was like, 'just announce already, please.'" As for what Paul said when he finally spoke, well, Stewart's time and patience only go so far. —Peter Weber
Iran and the bomb
In a new Reuters/Ipsos poll on the framework Iran nuclear deal, the winner is "not sure." That's the answer given by 40 percent of Republicans, 45 percent of independents, and 39 percent of Democrats when asked if they support the agreement reached last week. Only half of Democrats back the deal outright — a potential problem for President Obama — but so do 33 percent of independents and 31 percent of Republicans, creating a tricky issue for congressional Republicans.
Almost every GOP lawmaker in Washington opposes the Iran deal, but only 30 percent of Republican voters do, according to the poll, released Wednesday. Ten percent of Democrats and 23 percent of independents oppose the deal. There's one thing almost everyone seems to agree on, though: The U.S. shouldn't rely on military force to stop Iran from developing nuclear weapons; only 5 percent of Democrats, 6 percent of independents, and 11 percent of Republicans supported the military-only option. The poll surveyed 2,291 U.S. adults between April 3 and April 7.
The Daily Showdown
 
Jon Stewart is impressed by the nuclear deal the U.S. and five other world powers negotiated with Iran — even if it is less a deal, as the media trumpeted last week's accord, and more of a prenuptial agreement. But Republicans aren't fans, he noted on Tuesday night's Daily Show, and they will try to thwart a final pact. Not that this is anything new, he added: "'But the deal could be derailed by congressional Republicans' is like the political version of saying 'in bed' after you read your fortune cookie: You will share your true love and share a happy future, but the deal could be derailed by congressional Republicans."
Other than opposing the deal, though, congressional Republicans and their "president," Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, can't agree on their own list of demands of Iran, Stewart noted. Some argue that Tehran needs to go further in various unlikely directions, while others just want to bomb the country. In the last part, correspondent Hasan Minhaj keys off that final proposal, turning in a command performance of what he thinks Republicans really want from the Iran nuclear talks. Watch below. —Peter Weber
Mergers and acquisitions
On Wednesday, Royal Dutch Shell said it will buy BG Group for $69.6 billion in cash and stock, in the first major oil merger in a decade. The deal represents a 50 percent premium on BG shares, and while it won't rocket the Anglo-Dutch company past the world's biggest oil company, ExxonMobil, it will make Shell the world's top producer of liquified natural gas, according to Shell CEO Ben ban Buerden.
Specifically, BG will boost Shell's proved oil and gas reserves by 25 percent, and Shell will have access to BG's Santos Basin offshore oil fields in Brazil, plus natural gas assets in East Africa and Australia. Shell says it expects the deal to close in early 2016.
 
Can nothing go right with the Maya Angelou U.S. postage stamp? On Tuesday afternoon, as Oprah Winfrey was introducing the Angelou "Forever" stamp — yes, the one with a misquote  — at a U.S. Postal Service ceremony in Washington, D.C., much of the capital was thrown into darkness , thanks to what power company Pepco said was a broken power cable at a substation in Maryland. Like the pro she is, Winfrey went on with her presentation, lights and amplification be damned:
The blackout, which lasted for hours, also hit the White House, State Department, Justice Department, Capitol, and several Smithsonian museums. Backup generators kicked on in most government agencies. The Department of Homeland Security said  that there was no indication that the outage was engineered by malicious actors.
 
If you like your luxury a little rugged, then the new Mercedes-Benz pickup truck might be right up your alley.
Mercedes-Benz will now offer a pickup truck » http://t.co/W2nOf2ZiKP pic.twitter.com/WfjsMVzsRN
Daimler announced that Nissan and Mercedes are developing a double-cab 1-ton pickup together, which will be based on a Nissan truck that is not sold in the United States. "The Mercedes-Benz pickup will share some of the architecture with the all-new Nissan NP300, but it will be engineered and designed by Daimler to meet the specific needs of its customers," Daimler said in a statement. "The vehicle will have all of Mercedes Benz's distinctive characteristics and features."
The new pickup will be targeted for drivers in Europe, Australia, South Africa, and Latin America, USA Today reports , although executives are considering releasing it in the United States.

