Lenny Keitel: Have you chosen the wrong line of work?
Comment
By Lenny Keitel
»  Social News
You’ve heard the saying many times: “We learn from our own mistakes.”
The knowledge we acquire from our own mistakes helps us to advance in life with confidence. However, does the same adage necessarily hold true if someone made the mistake of choosing the wrong career path?
Although you may be fortunate enough to be employed, perhaps you’re not excited to arrive at the office in the morning, or you feel unappreciated, find it increasingly challenging to get key tasks accomplished, and don’t believe what you’re doing makes much of an impact. At the end of the day, you’re running on empty yet feel compelled to respond to an endless barrage of company emails after a late dinner. Does this scenario sound all too familiar?
According to Gallup's 2013 State of the American Workplace report, an alarming 70 percent of those surveyed said they either hate their work or are completely disengaged and are merely trying to survive each day at the office. Almost everyone has some sort of career goal or aspiration. However, all too often, workers take a leap of faith with their career, simply elated to just secure a job.
If you’re currently employed and a bit confused about whether or not you are moving in the right direction, here are a few things to consider:
Are you passionate about your job?
If you are not enthusiastic about your role, you'll never be successful. Even if you have senior status at work, you may still feel frustrated with your responsibilities. Remember, job satisfaction is one of the key influencers underpinning a successful career. If you find that your job or career choice is not fulfilling, you may very well be on the wrong track.
Does your work match your skills?
Career preferences vary widely for different people, and it would be reckless to select a career or job just because others have had success in it. What you must do is choose a career that matches your aptitude and skills. It’s never too late to start listening to the one person who knows more than anyone else about your true gifts and interests - that’s you!
Is your performance lackluster?
A key factor that determines one’s career growth is work performance. Unless you produce extraordinary results at work, you will never be able to move up the corporate ladder. Today, average performance is not acceptable in a highly competitive job market. If your performance is declining and your superiors are not thrilled with you, it’s a fairly good sign you’ve made a poor career choice.
Do you shy away from additional responsibilities?
If you perceive a promotion as being encumbered with more responsibility and stress, don’t waste your time pushing back in despair. It is time for a reality check and positive action.
What should you do if you find yourself on the wrong career path? If you’re living with the consequences of having ignored your better instincts, take a step back and imagine what your life would be like had you pursued your true gifts and passions.
The fact is, we all get lost or stuck from time to time. The true danger comes when we ignore those signs and remain helpless and discouraged. If any of the preceding scenarios ring a bell, it may be an opportune time to pursue a new profession.
 
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
recordonline.com | 40 Mulberry St., Middletown, NY 10940

