Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
No one's happy as Oregon Senate OKs $7.255 billion education bill after rancorous debate
After the resurrection of Christ, we will witness the death knell of our education system" -- Sen. Alan Olsen
SALEM -- The Senate on Monday reluctantly approved a $7.255 billion proposal to fund state schools for the next two years. 
The Legislature's plan represents a 9 percent increase from the current two-year budget -- enough to pay for all-day kindergarten and give school districts $100 more per student than they receive now -- but still short of what both parties say is needed to solve systemic shortfalls in Oregon's education system.
The spending plan now goes to Gov. Kate Brown, who is expected to sign it.
The final vote was the subject of a rancorous five-hour debate, with Republicans at one point storming off the Senate floor over Democrats' claims that their alternative proposal, which would have increased school funding to $7.56 billion, would result in cuts to public safety and human services.
Democrats, who passed their bill in a party-line vote, said the proposal is the best possible option given the current funding landscape. It will at least give school districts certainty in planning for the next academic year, they said.
But neither party was pleased with the result. For many, it came down to supporting a plan that would do the least harm.
"I know we have to do better," said Senate Majority Leader Diane Rosenbaum , D-Portland. "But this budget is responsible, it's realistic and it's what we have to do." 
Sen. Chris Edwards , D-Eugene called the day sad "because it's so gut-wrenchingly personal." Edwards has an autistic son.
"Today, I don't know what other options we have," he said. "I don't particularly want to dismantle the safety net -- the ramifications of that would be profound."
Supporters said the plan laid out in House Bill 5017  is a starting point that would allow lawmakers to add more money for education before the session ends. It requires 40 percent of additional revenue to be routed to the state school fund if next month's economic forecast turns out better than expected.
One by one, Republican senators took turns firing missiles across the aisle, giving dramatic opposition speeches and introducing long-shot amendments.
But Democrats, having already secured enough votes to pass the bill, shot every single one out of the sky.
Opponents had little to do but yell from the sidelines.
"The day after the resurrection of Christ, we will witness the death knell of our education system," Sen. Alan Olsen , R-Canby, said in a floor speech. He then paused for a moment of silence.
In a memorial-style tribute, Sen. Tim Knopp , R-Bend, read aloud the names of about 400 constituents who had sent in letters urging more money for schools -- a small portion of the 6,400 he had prepared.
Then, as the Senate was in its fourth hour of debate, Democrats distributed a flier saying the Republican plan would force deep cuts to public safety and human services. An enraged Senate Minority Leader Ted Ferrioli , R-John Day, rounded up his members and marched off to the Republican caucus room.
The dozen-member army regrouped and emerged some 30 minutes later, slogging through another hour of debate before Senate President Peter Courtney, D-Salem, called a final vote. The result was no surprise: 18-12, with no Democrats voting against the bill.
"I can't believe anyone is really happy with the state of Oregon education," Ferrioli told the chamber. "What we would like, what we need, what we're asking for, is for listening and cooperation. That's far more important than making a partisan stand on a number." 
Republicans characterized the $7.255 billion as a lowball figure that puts other spending ahead of education. Their alternative would have reached $7.56 billion for education by getting rid of Gain Share subsidies, extra funding for counties that gives employers property tax breaks; freezing state employee salaries; and allowing more logging Elliot State Forest, located near Coos Bay. 
Despite tepid support from lawmakers in both parties, the education budget marks one of the earliest in state history.
Since the Legislature took over the primary role in school funding in the mid-1990s, lawmakers typically have waited until the final days of the session to settle on a schools budget.
The earliest lawmakers have finalized school funding levels was in 2011, when the second chamber made it official on April 13, according to the Legislative Revenue Office.
That can cause problems for local school district leaders, who often are forced to make hard budget decisions based on best-guess scenarios for state funding. By law, school boards must set their yearly budgets by the end of June, and must hold two public votes and a public hearing before doing so. 
The Oregon Department of Education released updated numbers before last week's House vote  on the education budget showing schools will collectively receive $125 million more than anticipated because of higher projections of local property tax revenues. The earlier numbers caused concern among Republican lawmakers and school advocates that districts would have to cut staffing, school days or programs.
Kristen Grainger, Gov. Kate Brown's press secretary, indicated the governor will sign the bill.
"The governor looks favorably on the state's school funds appropriation bill," Grainger said. "She's going to continue to work with legislative leadership to ensure there are adequate investments in our education continuum, particularly early childhood and career preparedness programs."
Betsy Hammond and Denis C. Theriault contributed to this report.
-- Ian K. Kullgren
© 2015 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

