 
 
Was Methane Spike On Mars Caused By NASA's Curiosity Rover? – Tech Times
Advertisement
The Curiosity rover was designed, partially, to find out if methane is current within the environment of Mars. Between October 2012 and June 2013, the rover was utilized to take six samples of the environment, none of which confirmed proof of the fuel.
In December 2014, NASA introduced a methane spike had been recorded in 4 samples taken in late 2013 by the Curiosity rover. On Earth, methane is often created as a by-product of organic processes, so this discovering excited some researchers who believed microbes may quickly be discovered on the alien panorama. However, some researchers are crucial of the outcomes, believing the studying to be in error.
“I’m satisfied that they are surely seeing methane. But I am considering that it needs to be coming from the rover,” Kevin Zahnle from the Ames Research Center stated. Ames in California is one in every of 10 NASA area enters; it does analysis and improvement in  aeronautics, exploration know-how and science.
The Curiosity rover accommodates methane inside an inner chamber, at concentrations 1,000 occasions larger than that wanted to account for the readings, Zahnle advised the press. He was additionally crucial of the findings recorded by astronomers greater than a decade in the past. Mission engineers inform reporters that though concentrations within the chamber are excessive, there’s not sufficient methane within the system to set off the noticed readings.
“We are constantly monitoring that methane quantity and there hasn’t been proof of any leakage throughout the complete mission…. To produce the quantity we detected in Mars’s environment, you’d want a fuel bottle of pure methane leaking from the rover. And we merely do not have it,” stated Chris Webster of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
The Mars Curiosity group is planning to take a further collection of readings on the finish of 2015. This can be one Martian yr after methane was supposedly detected by the spacecraft. If the fuel is seen as soon as once more, then the supply would doubtless be seasonal, which might recommend a organic origin. Such a discovering would additionally make it unlikely that Curiosity is the supply of the fuel.
The ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter (TGO), designed by the European Space Agency, is scheduled for launch in 2016. Once it arrives on the Red Planet, the spacecraft can be able to analyzing the environment of Mars for indicators of the elusive fuel. Finding methane on Mars might be the primary constructive signal of alien life, or perhaps simply odd chemistry.
© 2015 Tech Times, All rights reserved. Do not reproduce with out permission.
Advertisement

