Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Don't Miss Out —
Follow us on:
Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen’s popularity must be soaring among her global central bank peers.
The dollar has surged against other developed-market currencies, reaching an almost eight-year high versus the yen, since the end of last week, when she said she expects to raise interest rates this year for the first time since 2006. By contrast, central banks in Japan and Europe are pursuing currency-depreciating stimulus to spur inflation, while policy makers from Australia to Canada say they want lower exchange rates to bolster economic recoveries.
“Looking at Yellen’s comments from the end of last week, it seems like she’s determined to act this year,” said Yasuhiro Kaizaki, vice president for global markets at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. in New York. “Until recently, I think people were only really buying the dollar against the euro, but it’s clear now that you can buy the dollar against many different currencies.”
The yen has fallen 1.7 percent to 123.10 per dollar as of 10:49 a.m. in Tokyo since May 21, the day before Yellen gave her speech in Providence, Rhode Island. It touched 123.32 on Tuesday, the weakest since July 2007.
The euro has sunk 2.1 percent over the period to $1.0882, while the Aussie dropped 2 percent to 77.42 U.S. cents and the Canadian dollar has slid 1.8 percent to C$1.2428 per greenback.
Yellen said in her first public comments on the policy outlook since late March that if the economy continues to improve as she expects, “it will be appropriate at some point this year” to start raising rates.
Recent economic reports suggest the U.S. is getting back on track after a slow first quarter. Commerce Department data Tuesday showed consecutive gains in orders for capital equipment, following better-than-forecast figures on inflation last week.
“The U.S. economy will bounce back in the second quarter,” ABN Amro Bank NV analysts Maritza Cabezas and Georgette Boele wrote in a research note. “There is room for the U.S. dollar to rally.”
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:

