Staff Writer | May 27, 2015 03:13 AM EDT
 
Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal shared numerous epic battles throughout their respective legendary career, each one of these encounters produced tensions and drama like no one has ever seen on the tennis court. But despite their fiery rivalry, Federer and Nadal always have mutual respect for each other as the top-2 players in their generation, if not in the history of the sport.
Like Us on Facebook
That's why in an interview before he begins his 62nd Grand Slam campaign, Federer didn't hesitate in saying Nadal is very much in the thick of the fight for this year's French Open crown.
For all the disappointments and heartaches Nadal suffered throughout the clay-court season, Federer knows that the Mallorcan Bull will be playing every match at Roland Garros with chip on his shoulder. And for that reason alone, Nadal will be even more dangerous than he has ever been in previous contests.
Nadal might have lost the favorite votes to a red hot Novak Djokovic for this year's Roland Garros, but he's more than capable of staging a spirited run on his way to his 10th crown on the red dirt of Paris. He's on the cusp of winning 15th major crown, surpassing Pete Sampras' 14 and trailing only Federer with his 17 slams.
However, Federer seems not pretty much bothered if ever Nadal eventually breaks his record, which he believes the Spaniard can really do. At the end of the day, he thinks the accomplishments he garnered throughout his career on and off the court will live on forever, regardless of the number of Grand Slam and other championships he won.  
"Rafa is very close, he can do it. The records are there to be broken, I'm very relaxed about this. I had my moment when I passed Sampras' record. You do not want someone to beat your record, but you are happy for the player who can do it. In the end no one will take away what you've done, just come and passed," Federer told reporters via Tennis World USA.
Tags:
Related News
1
3
5
In Case You Missed It

