Search
Photo
Mayor Rahm Emanuel waved to supporters before his victory speech in Chicago on Tuesday.Credit Joshua Lott/Getty Images
As Mayor Rahm Emanuel took the stage at a Chicago union hall on Tuesday night to declare victory in a re-election fight that had threatened his political future, he sounded uncharacteristically contrite. He said he had gotten a second chance. He said he was humbled. He said he heard what his city was telling him.
From the crowd, a deep voice boomed: “NICE!”
Through his victory speech, Mr. Emanuel, who beat Jesus G. Garcia but not without a runoff election, seemed to tackle his critics’ chief complaint: that he was pushy, unyielding, not listening – simply put, not nice.
“I will bring your voices, your concerns, into the office of the mayor,” Mr. Emanuel told the crowd. “I hear you on the importance of neighborhood high schools and better choices. I hear you on the importance of raising the minimum wage so that no family who works ever raises a child in poverty ever again.”
In came the booming voice again: “NICE!”
And again: “NICE!”
And again and again.
Mr. Emanuel gazed toward the voice and alluded to an ad campaign a union had unveiled to show a more tender side – “Rahm Love.”
Mr. Emanuel called out: “I’m gonna show you some Rahm Love in a second, brother!”
The man behind “NICE!” was Skip Marcucci, a union member. He explained his hollering as a simple recognition of what had happened over the last six weeks — the period since Mr. Emanuel failed to win enough votes in a first polling to avoid a runoff.
“The primary election turned everything around,” Mr. Marcucci said. “He became nice.”
But can such a transformation last? “Everybody on that stage and myself will make sure he stays nice,” he said.
About First Draft
First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com .
Politics Newsletter
We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.

