Credit: The Fort Worth Star-Telegram
Bob Schieffer opens the Schieffer Symposium on the News at TCU on Wednesday, April 8, 2015, in Fort Worth, Texas. CBS says veteran newsman Schieffer is retiring this year. (AP Photo/The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Ron T. Ennis)
CBS News moved swiftly Sunday after Bob Schieffer’s retirement announcement to name the network’s political director, John Dickerson, as the new moderator of Face the Nation. Dickerson, a former Time magazine and Slate writer who has been with CBS since 2009, will begin his new role early this summer. Schieffer, who made the announcement on Sunday’s show, noted that Dickerson “sure has the right bloodlines” for the assignment. Dickerson’s mother, Nancy, was the first female correspondent in the CBS News Washington bureau. Schieffer, the 78-year-old chief Washington correspondent of CBS News, announced Wednesday that he would be leaving the job early this summer. Schieffer has been with CBS News since 1969 and has been Face the Nation’s moderator since 1991. Dickerson’s reporting ability, and the fact that he spends his weeks immersed in political coverage, made him a natural for the job, CBS News President David Rhodes said Sunday. The Washington-based Sunday morning public-affairs shows are hotly competitive, with Face the Nation often beating NBC’s Meet the Press and ABC’s This Week in the ratings. Although Face the Nation updated its look recently and Dickerson is likely to be more active in social media than Schieffer, Rhodes isn’t calling for major changes in the show. “You want to change things that aren’t working,” Rhodes said. “The things that are working you want to continue with.”
An attorney for Nelly said the rapper and reality TV star will be exonerated of felony drug charges once the facts are out. Nelly, whose real name is Cornell Haynes, was arrested Saturday after a bus he was traveling in was pulled over by the Tennessee Highway Patrol. According to their statement, troopers found five rocks that tested positive for methamphetamine, as well as a small amount of marijuana and drug paraphernalia. Troopers also said they found numerous handguns. The St. Louis native is facing charges including felony possession of drugs and possession of drug paraphernalia. But attorney Scott Rosenblum said he expects Nelly to be exonerated. “We are extremely confident that when the facts come out, Nelly will not be associated with the contraband that was allegedly discovered,” Rosenblum said in a written statement via publicist Juliette Harris. Nelly, 40, was released from Putnam County jail on a $10,000 bond. His next court date is June 19.
(Advertisement)
Most Popular
All rights reserved.
This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Northwest Arkansas Newspapers LLC. Please read our Terms of Use or contact us .
Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2015, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.
Continue Uninterrupted Access
We hope you've enjoyed your preview of NWAOnline.com.
You've now read the maximum number of stories available without a subscription.
Subscribe now for complete and uninterrupted access to the best local, state and national news.
Take me back to the homepage.

