Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I am the president, CEO, and Taube Fellow in Health Care Studies at the Pacific Research Institute, a San Francisco-based think tank.   I regularly address national and international audiences on healthcare issues. My written works have appeared in top newspapers throughout the country, and I've been interviewed on CNN, FOX News, MSNBC, and many other prominent outlets.   As a native Canadian and naturalized American, I have a unique understanding of how government-run single-payer healthcare systems actually operate -- and why such ideas are wrong for America.   I have published four books: in 2004 titled, Miracle Cure: How to Solve America’s Health Care Crisis and Why Canada Isn’t the Answer (2004), The Top Ten Myths of American Health Care: A Citizen’s Guide (2008), and The Truth About Obamacare (2010), and my latest, The Pipes Plan: The Top Ten Ways to Dismantle and Replace Obamacare (Regnery 2012).
“It’s time to embrace reality.” That’s what President Obama said about Obamacare on its 5th anniversary in late March.
He meant it as a warning to critics — Obamacare is here to stay, so quit “belly-aching.”
But after five years of false promises, massive disruptions to the healthcare marketplace, enormous costs, repeated delays, and legal challenges, the law has never been more vulnerable than it is today.
Congressional Republicans can use a budgetary procedure called “reconciliation” to repeal Obamacare — and replace it with a market-oriented reform package that gives patients and doctors, not government officials, control over Americans’ healthcare decisions. GOP leaders can’t afford to squander this opportunity.
SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images
Republicans in both the House and Senate have already taken the first step toward executing this strategy by approving measures that would balance the budget in a decade and repeal Obamacare in its entirety.
For those unfamiliar with the lawmaking “sausage” factory, the next step in the budget process is for leaders in the House and Senate to form a conference committee to iron out differences between the two budget plans.
Even then, the congressional budget wouldn’t have the force of law. Lawmakers would still need to try to turn these budget promises into legislation through what’s called reconciliation.
This reconciliation bill would go to the president for his possible signature.
Unlike other pieces of legislation, a reconciliation bill cannot be filibustered in the Senate.
In the past, lawmakers have used reconciliation to get tax cuts or entitlement reforms through Congress that a determined minority might otherwise block.
Critics claim that repealing Obamacare via reconciliation is either impossible or foolhardy — especially given that the president has pledged to veto any bill that harms his eponymous law.
Perhaps it would be better, the argument goes, to use reconciliation to enact piecemeal changes to Obamacare that the president might actually sign. Or maybe Republicans should employ reconciliation to push for something else on their agenda, like tax reform.
But voters handed Republicans 13 more House seats and an eight-seat Senate majority last November on the specific promise that they’d do everything they could to repeal and replace Obamacare. To pass up this opportunity would be a slap in their faces.
President Obama might approve piecemeal changes to his healthcare reform law if they accompany other provisions he favors. But there’s no reason to waste a reconciliation bill, which can only be enacted once a year, on such changes.
Page 1 / 2
Enter Your Comment
Share

