Bemidji Minnesota P.O. Box 455 56619
ST. PAUL -- Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton this morning announced he is pursuing a public works funding bill with $842 million in projects, something that Republicans who control the House earlier declared dead on arrival.
Advertisement
Advertisement
The proposal, to be funded by the state selling bonds, would pay for a wide variety of projects, ranging from $48 million to complete southwest Minnesota's Lewis and Clark Water System to $65 million to build four railroad overpasses or underpasses in Willmar, Prairie Island Indian Community, Moorhead and Coon Rapids.
Dayton's office said that $360 million of the projects would be in greater Minnesota, $321 million in the Twin Cities and $161 million for statewide programs. A quarter of the money, $211 million, would go to education facilities.
The governor said that while it is important to provide construction jobs to build the projects, the real reason for his proposal is that it would be "an investment in the future of Minnesota."
The plan would cost Minnesotans $78 million in bond repayments in the next two years, Commissioner Myron Frans of Minnesota Management and Budget said, with more payments over a couple of decades.
Dayton said that now is a good time to sell bonds to finance projects, with low interest rates. "What better time do we have to make these investments?"
House Republicans, however, have said they do not want a bonding bill this year, preferring to hold off until next year. Dayton admitted that if the GOP sticks to its plan, his proposal has little chance, but he said that he plans to push for bonding.
The head of the House bonding committee, Rep. Paul Torkelson, R-Hanska, issued a late-morning statement that left open a possibility for considering bonding.
"With this announcement, the governor has now shown he wants to spend and borrow the maximum amount," Torkelson said. "House Republicans believe government spending should not grow faster than the family budgets of Minnesotans. Going forward our focus is to craft a state budget proposal, and our current targets do not include funds for new debt service."
Dayton said that his office received $1.9 billion in project requests and many items that he included in his plan could use more money.
"This bonding bill addresses high-priority needs," Frans said.
Advertisement
Don Davis Bemidji Pioneer (218) 333-9819 customer support http://www.bemidjipioneer.com
Don Davis has been the Forum Communications Minnesota Capitol Bureau chief since 2001, covering state government and politics for two dozen newspapers in the state. Don also blogs at Capital Chatter on Areavoices.
Highest Prices  Guaranteed. $100 min. for any complete vehicles.Selling used auto parts and a large selection  of used tires. (320)630-8196.

