Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
East Asians speak of other East Asians they consider too Occidentalised as “bananas” – yellow outside, white inside. I may be the opposite. Though European (French) I have spent much of my long life living, visiting, studying, reading about, making friends, teaching on and in Asia: in East Asia since the early 60s (Japan, Korea, Taiwan and the ASEAN countries), China since the early 1980s, also South Asia (I first visited Bangladesh when it was still East Pakistan and have returned frequently since, as well as frequently and regularly to India and occasionally Pakistan), and more recently West Asia (Iran, Jordan, Palestine and the GCC). Emeritus Professor at IMD, Lausanne (Switzerland), I founded The Evian Group in 1995, and am currently Visiting Professor at Hong Kong University and at NIIT University in Neemrana, Rajasthan (India).
For starters the conventional view that TTIP (Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership) is about Europe , whereas TPP is about Asia is wrong.
TTIP is indeed a proposed agreement between two parties, the US and the EU. It does not include other Atlantic nations such as Canada and Mexico, which are both members, with the US, of the North Atlantic Free Trade (NAFTA). Nor does it include non-EU member European states such as Iceland, Norway, Switzerland or Turkey. By currently common consent, TTIP negotiations appear to have got bogged down in bureaucratic technicalities and would seem to be going nowhere. There are hopes however that TPP might be concluded if President Obama can secure Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) from Congress.
Yet TPP is a really strange mélange of 12 members (see map below), including five from the Americas (Canada, Chile, Mexico, Peru and the US), five from Asia (Brunei, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and Vietnam), along with Australia and New Zealand. In terms of populations the total American contingent which stands at 535 million, more than half the total population of the Americas (947 million), is significantly larger than the Asian population figures which amount to no more than 256.6 million (285 if you add Australia and New Zealand), compared to Asia’s total population of 4.3 billion: almost half of the Asian contingent is accounted for by one member, Japan. Missing are large Asian economies, notably South Korea, India and Indonesia, all three members of the G20.
Also missing of course is China; but that would seem to be deliberate, the economic arsenal of Washington ’s (supposedly) strategic pivot to Asia, the fundamental aim of which is to contain China. Thus TPP is above all a geopolitical ploy with trade as a decoy.
Supporters and defenders of TPP argue that the reason China is excluded is not geopolitical but that TPP aims to achieve a very high standard trade agreement. Hence, they say, other Asian nations, including China, can apply and qualify for membership once they commit to meeting these high standards. Whether some of the current members, Vietnam, for example, are in a position to meet the high standards is for now an unresolved question. Though there is opposition to TPP in all member states, including in the two heavy-weight industrialized countries, Japan and US, a key question for developing countries, leaving aside the geopolitics, is whether TPP is what they need at this particular stage of their development.
This is the subject addressed in an interesting publication by the Malay Economic Action Council (MTEM) entitled, TPP – Malaysia is not for Sale . It includes a foreword by former Malaysian Prime Prime Minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad, architect of Malaysia’s impressive economic growth and development during his tenure, 1981 to 2003. As can be expected from Mahathir, he does not mince his words. He states that “the strongest campaigner of TPP is America … [which seeks] … to contain China and to safeguard its own economic interests [by] exploiting all resources from small but growing independent nations such as Malaysia”. He adds that “TPP is not a fair or free trade partnership, but an agreement to tie down nations with rules and regulations that would only benefit American conglomerates”. Furthermore, as Mahathir points out, the negotiations are occurring entirely in secret, thereby adding to the suspicion that it is a conspiracy. (Similar complaints on both counts can be heard in Europe in respect to TTIP.)
Page 1 / 3
Enter Your Comment
Share

