Published May 27, 2015
May 19, 2015: FIFA President  Sepp Blatter attends a press conference in Jerusalem.  (AP Photo/Tsafrir Abayov)
Several officials of international soccer's governing body were arrested by Swiss authorities early Wednesday and face extradition to the U.S. after federal prosecutors charged them with accepting bribes and kickbacks as far back as the early 1990s.
Switzerland's Federal Office of Justice confirmed to the Associated Press that six soccer officials were arrested and detained, but did not specify that they were all members of the International Federation of Association Football, known as FIFA. The Wall Street Journal had reported that up to 12 officials were expected to be detained.
The arrests were carried out at a five-star hotel in Zurich ahead of FIFA's annual meeting, which was to feature an election Friday that was widely expected to return 79-year-old Sepp Blatter for a fifth term as the organization's president.
The New York Times reported that Blatter was not among those who were arrested, but other members of FIFA's powerful executive committee were. It was not immediately clear exactly how many FIFA officials were being sought, or whether they all were in Switzerland for the meeting. The paper reported that at least two officials were seen being led out of the hotel without handcuffs and were allowed to bring their luggage.
The Wall Street Journal reported that federal prosecutors in New York were expected to unseal the indictment as early as Wednesday morning. The Journal reported that top law enforcement officials, including Attorney General Loretta Lynch, were expected to appear at a news conference to announce the charges.
The Times also reported that fraud, racketeering, and money laundering are among the charges listed in the indictment. The charges deal with corruption related to marketing and broadcast deals, as well as in bidding for the right to host the quadrennial World Cup, the biggest sporting event on Earth.
"We’re struck by just how long this went on for and how it touched nearly every part of what FIFA did," The Times quoted a law enforcement official as saying. "It just seemed to permeate every element of the federation and was just their way of doing business. It seems like this corruption was institutionalized."
According to The Times, other FIFA officials who faced arrest include Jeffery Webb and Eugenio Figueredo, both of whom are vice presidents of the executive committee. Jack Warner, a former executive committee member, was also expected to be charged.
The case against the officials is expected to involve dealings with CONCACAF, one of FIFA's six regional confederations. CONCACAF oversees all aspects of international soccer in North America, the Caribbean, and Central America. The United States, Mexico, and Canada are among CONCACAF's 41 member associations. 
FIFA has been dogged by accusations of corruption in recent years, most of it related to the bidding to host the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. Host rights for those tournaments were awarded in December 2010 to Russia and Qatar, countries which have been heavily criticized for their human rights record. Qatar's use of migrant labor to build the stadiums and other infrastructure to host the tournament has come under particular attack from advocacy groups.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

