Gov. Bruce Rauner
Gloria Casas, The Courier-News
Gov. Bruce Rauner appeared in Geneva Tuesday during a stop on his statewide tour talking about the Illinois Turnaround.
Gov. Bruce Rauner appeared in Geneva Tuesday during a stop on his statewide tour talking about the Illinois Turnaround. (Gloria Casas, The Courier-News)
Governor visits Geneva on statewide tour explaining his plans for the state
Gov. Bruce Rauner visited Kane County asking local leaders to endorse his Illinois Turnaround plan touting reforms that he promises will help the state thrive.
Rauner continued a tour around the state Tuesday with a stop in Geneva, promoting his agenda hoping to gain support from municipal, county and school officials. He requested the Kane County board pass a resolution in support of Illinois Turnaround initiatives.
"We need to show momentum," Rauner said. "We need grass root support. We will convince (legislators) to get those votes done."
A major component of the plan is to empower local governments by curbing unfunded mandates and allowing local government to make collective bargaining decisions, the governor said.
"We will thrive as a state when our people and families are empowered," Rauner said.
The Illinois Turnaround plan focuses on economic growth and jobs, student careers and success and taxpayer empowerment and government reform, Lauzen said.
While local lawmakers may not agree with everything on Rauner's agenda, there is common ground like acknowledging the state has huge financial problems that will require huge solutions, Lauzen said. Additionally, something needs to be done about the unfunded pension liability, he said.
"We seek to emphasize the positive and areas where we agree, rather than dwell on the negative and areas where there is disagreement and a need for greater understanding," Lauzen said.
Rauner pledged before 50 Kane County officials to make government work for Illinois, not special interest groups. The reforms will help change the state's direction, he said.
A major component of that change is reforming Illinois' pension systems, he said. The systems are not fully funded and $111 billion in the red, representing the worse pension crisis in America, according to Rauner's plan. He proposes to preserve and protect earned benefits to date and move all future earnings into a new pension plan.
"You don't reduce someone's benefits after the fact," Rauner said.
The governor projects if the state accomplishes pension reform as he has laid it out, it will mean a $2.7 billion savings in the first year.
Rauner's plan also calls for the creation of local employee empowerment zones where a county or other local government units decide through a referendum whether businesses and or local governments employees should be forced to join a union or pay dues as a condition of employment, he said.
Finally, he wants to see Illinois impose term limits on state legislators. The state has had too much power concentrated in too few offices, he said. Democracy doesn't work if power is concentrated that way, he said.
This week, Rauner suspended $26 million in grants to public health and social service agencies. He inherited the deficit from former Governor Pat Quinn, he said. According to published reports, Rauner froze the funding while his office evaluates the grants.
Tuesday, he did not indicate how long the freeze would be or what families or agencies should do in the meantime.
Gloria Casas is a freelance reporter for the Courier-News
Comments
Loading

