Inside the Beltway: Santorum: Room for one more
Then-New York Gov. George Pataki (right) is now poised to enter the GOP race for 2016, saying the party needs to veer away from social issues and concentrate more on fiscal responsibility and conservative principles. (associated press) more >
By -      The Washington Times -                                    Tuesday, May 26, 2015
The ever-expanding Republican presidential field continues to percolate. With a precision metalworks company as his backdrop, former Sen. Rick Santorum stepped out to announce his intentions late Wednesday afternoon, in a town 33 miles northeast of Pittsburgh. Yes, C-SPAN was there, always an indicator that the event is of note. Mr. Santorum will clarify a campaign message that could distinguish him from the GOP pack.
“Sen. Santorum is excited to share his vision of helping hard-working American families achieve the American dream again,” spokesman Matt Beynon tells Inside the Beltway.
Such sentiment works for the candidate. The race to brand White House hopefuls with instantly recognizable traits and signature talking points is always intense. Mr. Santorum has some advantages. He is unapologetically faith-driven, pro-life and the author of “Blue Collar Conservatives.” The father of seven made a humble gray sweater-vest one of the symbols of his campaign during his last bid for the White House — way, way back in 2012. Oh, yes. Why it was only, what, 20 years ago? Seems like it.
Meanwhile, the rigors of campaign life call. Once his announcement is done, Mr. Santorum will spring immediately into active mode and depart for Iowa; with the support of the Iowa GOP, he’ll appear at the Machine Shed in Davenport, billed as a “restaurant supporting the American farmer” — and the specialty of the house is a prize-winning roasted, stuffed Iowa pork chop.
PATAKI: ROOM FOR ONE MORE, PART 2
Another 24 hours, and another Republican hopeful comes to call on American voters. George Pataki will announce his plans to run for president on Thursday morning; with a touch of drama, the former New York governor will journey to Exeter, New Hampshire, for his big reveal. The historic town of 9,242 was more or less the birthplace of the Republican Party, founded in 1853 right there in the local Squamscott Hotel. Exeter was also the location of a famous UFO sighting in 1965, but that’s another story.
Mr. Pataki, meanwhile, will make his 2016 intentions known at the Exeter Town Hall. A 6-foot-5 fiscal conservative and an advocate of “smaller, smarter government,” Mr. Pataki has already spelled out his beliefs via We the People, Not Washington — a month-old political action committee.
The next president, he says, must reduce the size, scope and cost of government, simplify the tax code, institute term limits for Congress and permanently ban retired lawmakers from lobbying.
“Defeating Islamic terror, shrinking government and growing the economy. These are the issues that matter most. Instead, we’re debating social issues like abortion and gay rights. They’re a distraction and will only help elect Hillary. After eight years of Obama-style socialism, we need to shrink government — not let big government tell us how to live our lives,” Mr. Pataki says in a new campaign video.
He also says the federal government must leave health care and education to the states and the citizenry, and has taken a hard line on terrorism, suggesting the U.S. must “proactively pursue terrorists” or risk another major attack on American soil.
“Our next president can’t begin with a worldwide apology tour. We need to take the fight to the terrorists directly,” says Mr. Pataki.
EMBRACING THE INNER PANTSUIT
There’s official, branded stuff for sale at Hillary Rodham Clinton’s presidential campaign website — surely a sign that the effort is powering up to speed. The online store features a quaint pillow with the motto “A woman’s place is in the White House” in cross-stitch, a handy tote, glassware and “I’m with Hillary” bumper stickers. Then there are two items that hark back to Mrs. Clinton’s identity of yore.
The $30, unisex-size, bright-red “Everyday Pantsuit Tee” looks like a blazer, complete with pearls, although “pantsuit bottoms are not included,” the shirt description sternly advises.
And for people actually dressed in a pantsuit, there’s the $15 red, white and blue Pantsuit Lapel Pin bearing Mrs. Clinton’s signature H-with-an-arrow logo — “something beautiful and meaningful you can wear everyday, everywhere,” the site advises.
Shares
Shares
Question of the Day

