Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By SEAN CARLIN Associated Press
04/02/2015 10:51 PM
04/02/2015 10:52 PM
NEWARK, N.J.
New Jersey U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez and Florida eye doctor Salomon Melgen pleaded not guilty Thursday to federal corruption and bribery charges.
Menendez and Melgen were indicted Wednesday in a 68-page document that alleges Menendez advocated for Melgen's interests in exchange for travel and political and legal-defense contributions. Menendez and his attorney, Abbe Lowell, said after his initial court appearance Thursday that prosecutors were wrong and they intend to prove it in court.
Where the case stands:
THE CHARGES
Prosecutors allege that Menendez advocated for Melgen's interests — including helping his foreign girlfriends obtain visas — in exchange for travel, a stay in Paris and access to resorts.
---
NOT GUILTY PLEAS
Menendez and Melgen pleaded not guilty to all charges against them Thursday. Menendez and Melgen sat silently during their initial court appearance and, after the hearing, Menendez told reporters that he's looking forward to arguing the case on the record after a yearslong investigation.
---
JUST FRIENDS?
--
COMPARISON TO PREVIOUS CASES
Lowell pointed to the failed prosecutions of former Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens and former North Carolina Sen. John Edwards and compared those cases to Menendez's. Stevens, R-Alaska, was found guilty on charges of not reporting hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of home renovations, but the Justice Department later dismissed the case. Edwards, D-North Carolina, was charged with campaign contribution violations in 2011, but was found not guilty on one count and a mistrial was declared on five others.
Because Sen. Menendez's actions were "proper," Lowell said the case would become another of those "mistaken cases" brought by the Justice Department.
Follow Us
Oops, you haven't selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops, you didn't provide a valid email address. Please double-check the email field and submit again.
Sign up for email newsletters
5-Minute Herald (Monday - Friday) The best of the morning's Miami Herald.
Afternoon Update (Monday - Friday) Latest news, plus the afternoon business & national news.
News Alert (When it happens) the first to know when big news breaks.
Business (Monday - Friday) Keep up with local business news and small business advice.
Americas (Monday - Friday) Our best source for news and opinion on Cuba and the Americas.
Political Currents (Monday - Friday) Keep up with the latest in politics - in Florida, the nation, Latin America and the Caribbean.
Family Fare (Wednesdays) Have a family? Then this is your source for family friendly events, education news, health news and other important topics that parents need to know.
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

