The Tampa Bay Lightning find themselves presented with an exciting opportunity tonight as they prepare to head into the Amalie Arena to take on the New York Rangers in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference Finals. They are faced with an opportunity to close out the series and advance to the Stanley Cup Finals.
MORE HEADLINES AROUND FANSIDED:
Right now, there is just one thing standing in between the Tampa Bay Lightning and their chance to make history once again; the New York Rangers. As one can imagine, the Blue Shirts are not too interested in heading back to Madison Square Garden without a game left to play.
If you were one of the many who were tuned into Game 5 on Sunday night, you know full well that the Tampa Bay Lightning had found their groove. The special teams was working optimally, as they were able to keep the Rangers from capitalizing on all four of their opportunities on the Power Play, and their defense was working hand-in-hand with Lightning netminder Ben Bishop to keep the puck out of the back of the net.
While all of these are definite positives for our Boys in Blue as they head into Game 6 tonight, if the Tampa Bay Lightning wants to come out of tonight’s encounter with their ticket punched to the next round they are going to have to maintain their focus and play exactly as they did in the previous game; defensively minded.
As you know, when a team has their backs against the wall, they are going to come at the opposition with every single thing that they have in their arsenal. This means that they are going to be prepared to play an incredibly physical, defensive-minded game and they are going to dig for any exploit they can find on Ben Bishop .
The Lightning knows exactly what they need to do in order to get the job done. The only thing they have to do now is head out on the ice, maintain their focus on the task at hand, and do what they do best; score goals and win games.
Here is a look at all the information you’ll need to make sure you don’t miss a moment of the action tonight as the Tampa Bay Lightning take on the New York Rangers in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference Finals.
Game: Tampa Bay Lightning vs. New York Rangers
Venue: Amalie Arena
Location: Tampa, Florida
TV Info: NBC Sports Network, CBC, TVA
Radio Info: Lightning Radio on  970WFLA  or TBL Power Play on  iHeartRadio
Subscribe to FanSided Daily for your morning fix.
Enter your email and stay in the know.
More TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING coverage from 120 Sports:
Sign up for our daily newsletter
Pick your favorite teams, topics and players and get content right in your inbox.

