Chris Christie, Debora Reina
Mel Evans, AP
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie holds hands with a tearful Debora Reina as the former social worker asks for the governor's help with medical issues during a town hall meeting on Tuesday, April 7, 2015, in Matawan, N.J.
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie holds hands with a tearful Debora Reina as the former social worker asks for the governor's help with medical issues during a town hall meeting on Tuesday, April 7, 2015, in Matawan, N.J. (Mel Evans, AP)
Teacher tells Chris Christie she had trouble explaining the governor's combative behavior to her students.
A kindergarten teacher on Tuesday urged Gov. Chris Christie to tone down his combative style, warning the potential presidential contender that his temper wouldn't play well across the country.
"How do you defend that?" she asked.
The governor sounded an introspective note, thanking Meyer for her question and talking about how everyone has had interactions in which they'd wish they'd said something differently — though not everybody's response wound up on the news. He said that, as a public official, he finds that people are constantly trying to push his buttons and that rarely — though sometimes — they succeed.
Other times, he said, "you just have a bad day."
"I'm trying to get better every day," he later said.
But even if he tries to limit his blow-ups, he said, he'll never become "vanilla" or say things only because it's what people want to hear.
"I think we've had too much of people in public life pretending to be something," he said, adding that, if it turns out his style isn't voters' cup of tea, he'll understand.
Among those in the audience was Jim Keady, the man Christie famously told to "sit down and shut up" at an event last year. Keady, who is now running for state assembly, said he found Christie's answer to Meyer unconvincing.
"Of course you have the urge. You're a human being. ... But it's called self-control, it's called respect for your office," Keady said.
Christie built his national reputation as a straight-talker unafraid to mince words. He has struggled with the perception that what plays well in northeastern New Jersey won't work well in early-voting states like South Carolina and Iowa where voters aren't used to such brashness.
Christie has been holding town hall events across New Jersey, pressing his proposal to further overhaul the state's pension and health benefit system for public workers. He's set conduct two town halls next week in New Hampshire, which holds the nation's first primary.
Associated Press
Comments
Loading

