While her on-off boyfriend Tyson Beckford has been cosying up to an array of female stars including Mariah Carey and Chris Brown's ex Karrueche Tran, Shanina Shaik doesn't seem to be fazed one little bit.
Taking to Instagram on Tuesday, the 24-year-old Australian model shared a photo of herself enjoying a night out on the town with model pal Sharina Gutierrez.
Proving all she needs is her girls by her side, Shanina captioned the photo: 'Nothing compares to the stomach ache you get from laughing with your best girlfriends' tagging her friend @sharinagutierrez'. 
Girls night out: On Tuesday Shanina Shaik took to Instagram to share a photo of her Memorial Day Weekend celebrations with fellow model Sharina Gutierrez
In the photo the brunette beauty certainly sizzled, flaunting her toned figure in a sexy black dress with a daringly low backline. 
Secured with two strappy ties, the fitted black frock hugged Shanina's enviable figure in all of the right places. 
RELATED ARTICLES
Share
Her dark locks were worn out sleek and straight, her windswept side fringe perfectly framing her beautiful face. 
Looking picture perfect as per usual, the Victoria's Secret runway sensation glowed with lashings of black mascara and a light pink lipstick. 
Are they or aren't they? Shanina didn't seem to fazed about on-off boyfriend Tyson Beckford who has been cosying up to an array of female stars in recent days (the pair pictured in London in December last year) 
Meanwhile Sharina, stunned in a tight white dress, the sleeveless number showing off every curve. 
With their arms around eachother, the beauties posed with their backs to the camera while heads were turned around to give the lens a sultry stare.
Sharina shared the same photo on her Instagram page, captioning it '#MDW with the Bestie... Vegas Style', making reference to Memorial Day Weekend. 
Days earlier Shanina shared snaps of herself chilling with more girl pals in Monaco.
Soaking up some sun: Days earlier Shanina shared this photo of herself in Monaco 
Boat life: The brunette beauty cosied up to pal Kendall Jenner for a quick snap as they boarded a yacht with Gigi Hadid and Hailey Baldwin 
On Friday she spent the day aboard a yacht  with fellow models, Kendall Jenner, Gigi Hadid and Hailey Baldwin.
The Victoria’s Secret Angel dressed to impress in a cream, off-the shoulder romper that made the most of her famous figure.
The model club had moved on to Monaco Grand Prix after spending time at the Cannes Film Festival.
Meanwhile Shanina's older beau Tyson, whom she is believed to have split from, raised eyebrows over the weekend when he shared a photo of himself with Chris Brown's ex-girlfriend Karrueche Tran.
Red carpet beauty: Last week Shanina was turning heads when she stepped out at Cannes Film Festival 
Karrueche, who split with Chris after it was revealed he had fathered a child with another woman during their relationship, was in Las Vegas at the same time as former runway model Tyson.
The handsome man shared his selfie with the young model with the caption: 'Saturday with @Karrueche #vegas #palms #blasian'. 
And unsurprisingly, the social media post struck a nerve with Chris, and the two hunks began threatening one another over Instagram and Twitter.
Tyson has also been seen cosying up to the likes of Mariah Carey and Britney Spears over the last few days.
What's going on here? Tyson raised eyebrows over the weekend when he shared a photo of himself with Chris Brown's ex-girlfriend Karrueche Tran
On Tuesday Tyson shared a photo of his Memorial Day celebrations with 45-year-old Mariah at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas.
But if Tyson's caption on the photo is anything to go by, it seems the pair are just good friends.
'Currently hanging with my friend @mariahcarey #family,' he wrote next to the snap of them cosying up for the camera. 
Last week Tyson also appeared on stage during Britney Spears' last Piece Of Me show in Las Vegas.
The 44-year-old sported a leash as he was walked across the stage by the blonde singer before jumping up to show off his abs with a quick dance for the audience. 
 
 
MOST WATCHED NEWS VIDEOS
Share what you think
Add your comment
Enter your comment
By posting your comment you agree to our house rules .
Submit Comment
More top stories
DON'T MISS
MORE DON'T MISS
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
 
 
 

