By KEITH ROGERS
LAS VEGAS REVIEW-JOURNAL
MERCURY — The whir of ventilation fans and glow of lights inside the south entrance of the tunnel that loops through Yucca Mountain signaled new life for the shuttered nuclear waste study site for a few hours Thursday while six congressmen toured it.
”It’s 30 years, $15 billion of an investment by the nation. Again with the facts that the NRC has said … It will be safe for a million years, it’s an investment that we need to keep in mind as we move forward,” Rep. John Shimkus, R-Ill., said after a 1-hour, 15-minute ride through the 5-mile tunnel on tandem all-terrain vehicles.
Shimkus, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce environment and economy subcommittee, arranged for himself and five colleagues to tour the Yucca Mountain tunnel, including Nevada Republican Reps. Cresent Hardy and Mark Amodei
Hardy, whose district includes the Yucca Mountain site, 100 miles northwest of Las Vegas, said the tour was educational and seeing the exploratory tunnel firsthand gave him a better understanding of the process for siting a nuclear waste repository even though the Obama administration has abandoned Yucca Mountain.
“I learned that there’s a tunnel in the ground. I learned that there’s science behind some of this stuff,” Hardy said. “I’m glad I came. That gives me a little better understanding how this is set up and what the plans are if it is approved. I think that’s important.”
Other lawmakers on the tour were Reps. Bob Latta, R-Ohio, Dan Newhouse, R-Wash., and Jerry McNerney, D-Calif. Newhouse’s district includes the Hanford Nuclear Reservation, where millions of gallons of radioactive waste from government nuclear weapons production were to be converted into glass logs and buried at the Yucca site.
The Yucca tunnel, 100 miles northwest of Las Vegas, has been shuttered since the Obama administration at the urging of then-U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., allowed funding to dry up in 2010. President Barack Obama later appointed a blue-ribbon panel to chart a new path for nuclear waste disposal that doesn’t include Yucca Mountain.
The Yucca project that had been underway since the mid-1980s reached a peak of 2,750 workers in 2006, when its annual spending approached $500 million.
Layoffs came hard and fast when federal support dried up. Only a handful of officials once associated with the program are still working on nuclear issues in the Department of Energy.
In April 2011, Shimkus led a “public education” tour to heighten awareness about what he described as “a national asset that we’re letting go to waste at a cost of $14.5 billion.”
That trip was the last time the tunnel was reopened for visitors, and then only briefly at a cost of $15,000. The costs of the latest visit have not yet been disclosed.
Shimkus, whose state has 11 commercial nuclear power reactors and a sizable fraction of the nation’s highly radioactive waste, hopes he can rejuvenate the abandoned Yucca Mountain Project that Reid and U.S. Sen. Dean Heller, R-Nev., have recently said is still dead.
Miners began cutting the 25-foot-diameter exploratory tunnel in September 1994 using a $13 million tunnel-boring machine dubbed the “Yucca Mucker.” The 5-mile loop from the North Portal, 1,000 feet beneath the mountain’s crest, was completed 31 months later after a $74 million journey through the volcanic-rock ridge.
Exhausted workers cheered as the monstrous machine punched through the last few feet of rock at what became the South Portal on April 25, 1997.
Geologists said the scene, however, was probably not so spectacular as the volcano that exploded 11 million years ago, spewing ash that formed the mountain at the southwest edge of what is now the Nevada National Security Site.
As the 720-ton machine chewed its way through the mountain, scientists charted the entire loop from a special platform that trailed the Yucca Mucker. The intent of the federal scientists was to photograph and document the rock layers to make a case for the mountain’s integrity.
Contrary to Nevada’s stance that the evidence would prove that the mountain cannot safely contain nuclear waste for periods up to a million years, the federal team hoped to make a case that a repository could be licensed and built to entomb 77,000 tons of highly radioactive spent fuel pellets from nuclear power reactors. About 10 percent of the waste destined for disposal would come from Cold War defense projects and the nuclear Navy.
The effort was paid for mostly with money that ratepayers put in a nuclear waste fund. The fund consisted of surcharges paid by customers who used electricity generated by nuclear power.
Since 1987, about $15 billion has been spent on the Yucca Mountain Project. Roughly $31 billion remains in the fund although collections for it were stopped about a year ago following a court order.
Pending any further spending approved by Congress, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is under court order to move forward on licensing-related work for Yucca until money in its nuclear waste accounts run out.
NRC commissioners recently approved completion of an environmental study and a series of administrative tasks to wind down its work. When the work is completed, the agency estimates it will have finished spending nearly all of its $13.5 million Yucca-related allocation.
The Department of Energy has between $20 million and $40 million left from unspent Yucca Mountain Project money.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.
Review-Journal Washington Bureau Chief Steve Tetreault contributed to this report. Contact Keith Rogers at krogers@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0308 . Find him on Twitter: @KeithRogers2.
Comment section guidelines
 
 
 
 
 

