Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
2:59PM Wednesday May 27, 2015
25181(0) online now
contact us
Date
Video will begin in 5 seconds.
Abbott confirms 'vigorous' cabinet debate
Tony Abbott confirms Australia will strip citizenship from dual nationals engaged in terrorism, and confirms cabinet was split over a plan to tackle sole Australian citizens.
PT2M52S 620 349
Autoplay On Off
According to the government, 100 Australians are fighting with the Islamic State terror group in Syria and Iraq. Mr Abbott has also said 150 others are supporting terrorist groups from Australia.
To combat the problem, veteran MP and former government whip Phillip Ruddock will become a 'special envoy for citizen and community engagement' and lead a consultation on Australian citizenship with Senator Concetta Fierravanti-Wells, who takes on a new position as secretary to the Attorney-General.
"A national conversation about citizenship will enable us to consider whether the rights and responsibilities of citizenship are well understood and how we can better promote these, including among young Australians," Mr Abbott said on Tuesday.
Advertisement
"The word of the citizenship pledge must mean something."
According to the consultation paper , the government is considering requiring more individuals to make the 'Pledge of Commitment' by reducing exemptions.
It has also suggested strengthening the pledge to include words about allegiance to Australia and an undertaking "not to act contrary to that allegiance".
People may also be forced into a signed undertaking that they will not break the pledge.
From its first line, with the option to include "under God" or not, to the last, the pledge is currently recited at all Australian citizenship ceremonies.
Mr Abbott even recited the pledge during his Tuesday press conference. But could you?
&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;nbsp;
Citizenship crackdown
Question time live from the House of Representatives. From 2pm AEST.
PT0M0S 300 169 Wed May 27 03:50:48 UTC 2015

