Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
NASHVILLE — Probably the most well-known and influential defender of Second Amendment rights will hold its national convention in Nashville this weekend, bringing with it tens of thousands of gun enthusiasts, presidential hopefuls and a short boom for local tourism.
Post to Facebook
NRA to bring guns, politics to Nashville NASHVILLE — Probably the most well-known and influential defender of Second Amendment rights will hold its national convention in Nashville this weekend, bringing with it tens of thousands of gun enthusiasts, presidential hopefuls and a short boom for local tourism. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1CdbCzi
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
NRA to bring guns, politics to Nashville
Jordan Buie, The Tennessean 3:33 p.m. EDT April 6, 2015
Nick Faddy with CPR Signs places NRA convention signs on the doors of Music City Center in Nashville.
(Photo: Shelley Mays, The Tennessean)
CONNECT 2 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
NASHVILLE — Probably the most well-known and influential defender of Second Amendment rights will hold its national convention in Nashville this weekend, bringing with it tens of thousands of gun enthusiasts, presidential hopefuls and a short boom for local tourism.
Planners expect the National Rifle Association 's Annual Meeting & Exhibits, which will run Friday through Sunday, to draw more than 70,000 people, which compares with 80,000 music fans a day expected for the four-day CMA Music Festival downtown in June.
Andrew Arulanandam, the NRA's managing director of public affairs, said more than 86,000 people walked through the doors of the George R. Brown Convention Center when the convention visited Houston in 2013.
Such large turnouts occur in part, Arulanandam said, when surrounding interests combine with a city's ability to host thousands of visitors from an average of three to four hours away. The decision for the convention to be held in Nashville was made a few years ago, when reservations were placed for Music City Center before its construction was complete.
The convention will have concerts, meetings, forums, auctions, breakfasts, children's activities and, of course, "sixteen acres of guns." But even the expansive size of Music City Center isn't expected to contain it all.
Signs and posters are being installed at the Music City Center for this week's National Rifle Association convention in Nashville. The convention starts Friday, April 10, 2015.
 (Photo: Shelley Mays, The Tennessean)
More than 400 exhibitors are competing for space within the 350,000-square-foot building. The excess of conventioneers, displaying everything from antique guns and high-tech scopes to "just about anything a person could want in camouflage," is expected to flow outside the center.
For many who attend the convention, now in its 144th year, the draw goes beyond guns and camouflaged recliners. The NRA convention has come to be a CPAC-level pulpit for nationally recognized conservative politicians who, if they have not already announced a run for president, are courting the conservative base for one.
This year's guest speakers for the NRA-ILA Leadership Forum include: Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, former Florida governor Jeb Bush, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, former Texas governor Rick Perry, former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, Milwaukee County Sheriff David A. Clark Jr., South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, Dr. Benjamin Carson, former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, former Alaska governor Sarah Palin and Donald Trump.
The ILA is the Institute for Legislative Action, the lobbying arm of the National Rifle Association.
Arulanandam said more than 500 people will work the convention, and a multi-level security plan went into the works not long after Nashville was selected for the convention.
All guns on the convention floor will be non-operational, with the firing pins removed. Any guns purchased during the NRA convention will have to be picked up at a Federal Firearms License dealer near where the purchaser lives, and legal identification will be required, Arulanandam said.
Some convention events require tickets, which can be purchased in advance at the NRA convention website, www.nraam.org . The exhibit hall is open free to current members. For non-members, admission can be purchased at the door by signing up for a $35 year-long membership.
USA NOW
Apr 06, 2015

