The Wisconsin Supreme Court is no stranger to controversy . Disputes among the justices have even turned physical .  Chief Justice Shirley Abramson is a regular participant in the Court’s internal squabbles.  Now, faced with the prospect of losing her position as Chief Justice, Abramson is going to court.
On April 7, Wisconsin votes approved an amendment to the Wisconsin Constitution changing the manner in which the Court’s Chief Justice is selected.  Prior to passage of the new amendment, the most senior member of the Court served as Chief Justice.  Under the new amendment, the members of the Court are to elect a Chief Justice every two years.  Given the current composition of the Court, it is quite clear Justice Abramson will not remain the Chief under this rule, but she’s not leaving without a fight.
On Wednesday, Justice Abramson filed suit in federal court challenging the amendment.  Specifically, Justice Abramson is challenging whether the amendment may take immediate effect, as opposed to when the Chief Justice position becomes vacant — presumably when her current term on the Court expires in 2019.
According to her complaint ,
Should the new method of selecting a chief justice be put into immediate effect before the expiration of Chief Justice Abrahamson’s current term and a new chief justice selected, the term of the current, elected chief justice will be disrupted, her constitutionally protected interest in the office of chief justice will be impaired, the votes of her supporters will be diluted and the results of the 2009 election undone long after-the-fact, while the Wisconsin court system’s leadership will become unsettled. The retroactive application of the new amendment raises profound issues of Due Process and Equal Protection under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
Yesterday, a federal district court judge denied Justice Abramson’s request for a temporary restraining order.  According to this order , the judge will hold a status conference on the case on April 21, and potentially hear arguments before the election results are certified on April 29.  The judge said he expects “prompt resolution” of the matter.
Jonathan H. Adler teaches courses in constitutional, administrative, and environmental law at the Case Western University School of Law, where he is the inaugural Johan Verheij Memorial Professor of Law and Director of the Center for Business Law and Regulation.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

