Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
4:59PM Wednesday May 27, 2015
23149(0) online now
contact us
Date
Video will begin in 5 seconds.
Hockey faces budget grilling on QandA
Joe Hockey was the centre of attention on Monday's QandA program and while many viewers thought he was spinning the budget with a lot of talk, there was one question which left the Treasurer momentarily speechless.
PT1M39S 620 349
Autoplay On Off
Never has $10 a year caused so much friction between a treasurer and a prime minister, let alone catapulted to the forefront of tax policy a word most men cannot bring themselves to say.
"Why are you taxing my period?" is the question that has 86,000 women nodding in agreement. Brandishing her petition, and a giant tampon, activist Subeta Vimalaraha asked a surprised Treasurer Joe Hockey on Monday's Q&A program if he agreed sanitary products are essential.
Treasurer Joe Hockey and Prime Minister Tony Abbott during question time on Wednesday.
Photo: Andrew Meares
Mr Hockey, confronted by a giant tampon and the thought of saying the word on national television sought to cover his embarrassment by instantly agreeing.
Advertisement
"Do I think sanitary products are essential? I think so. I think so," he said before hastily promising to ask the state and territories to have the GST removed.  
But how much tampon tax are women actually paying?  Tampon producers recommend they be changed every 3-4 hours. So assuming a menstrual cycle lasts up to seven days and based on a tampon costing up to 21 cents each , it turns out women are paying just over $10 a year in GST.
Mr Abbott has appeared to dismiss the likelihood of removing the GST.
Photo: Andrew Meares
Even at a slightly higher price, 24 cents each, women could expect to pay 92 cents a month in GST or $10.99 a year.
(These calculations do not include the tax that would be paid on other sanitary products.)
"Tamponomics" has split the Prime Minister and Treasurer and was raised again in Parliament on Wednesday.  Prime Minister Tony Abbott appeared to dismiss the likelihood of removing the GST on what he calls "health products" given the states would be unlikely to agree to give up the revenue.
But he said he would "entertain" the idea if the states presented a united front on the issue.
"Joe was asked a question on Q&A by some activists and he said that he had some sympathy with their position," Mr Abbott told reporters in the Canberra suburb of Fyshwick.
"In the end what happens to the GST is wholly and solely a matter for the states and territories.
"I'm very happy to entertain a request from the states and territories if they can find a united position.
"If the states do decide that they want to narrow the tax base, obviously there are some revenue implications for the states and so be it."
Mr Hockey has asked his department to find out exactly how much revenue the states would stand to lose and remained defiant.
Speaking to Melbourne radio 3AW , Mr Hockey said the different treatment for tampons and condoms, is unfair.
"My view is it does sound unfair that GST applies in that area but does not apply to condoms and a range of other, not dissimilar products. I'm perfectly happy to put it to the states, we'll give the states the numbers on it and go from there," Mr Hockey told Neil Mitchell.
Ms Vimalarajah will be travelling to Parliament on Thursday and will be accompanied by a "giant dancing tampon" to continue her campaign against the "bloody unfair" tax.
The spectacle could turn even the driest economic rational (who would argue for the GST to be imposed on all goods and services and not reversed) to turn to….water.
Please select an answer.
You will need Cookies enabled to use our Voting Feature.
Poll closes in 4 hours.
Disclaimer:
These polls are not scientific and reflect the opinion only of visitors who have chosen to participate.
Same sex marriage vote 'sould be owned by parliament': PM
Any vote legalising same sex marriage shouldn't be owned by any particular political party says the Prime Minister.
PT2M45S 300 169 Wed May 27 04:58:17 UTC 2015


 
 
Loading
Michelle Grattan, University of Canberra
Michelle Grattan AO is one of Australia's most respected and awarded political journalists. She has been a member of the Canberra parliamentary press gallery for more than 40 years, during which time she has covered all the most significant stories in Australian politics. She currently has a dual role with an academic position at the University of Canberra and as associate editor (politics) and chief political correspondent at The Conversation.
 
 
 
/ ( )
REGISTER FOR THE EBOOK
I wish to receive special offers via email from related companies
By submitting you agree to our Terms & Conditions
Like us
Women's Agenda
Latest Comments
Must reads site wide
Treasurer Joe Hockey has always been wary of going on Q&A . He was right.
Hockey made policy on the run on the program when he agreed that GST shouldn't be applied to women's sanitary products and promised to take the issue up with the states.
Hockey had been confronted with a question from university student Subeta Vimalarajah about her petition to remove the tax that had more than 86,000 signatures. Should the GST be removed? "It probably should, yes. The answer is yes," he said.
Praising the questioner – "good on you for getting the petition together" – Hockey said he needed the agreement of the states to make a change, and "I will raise it with the states at the next meeting of the treasurers in July".
But Tony Abbott was less than keen on the exemption, telling his Tuesday news conference that the government had no plan for this. It was a matter for the states to decide whether they wanted any changes to the GST and if they did, to come to the Commonwealth, he said.
Hockey is pressing on, saying late on Tuesday he'd asked Treasury for a costing and then would write to the states for them to consider the issue ahead of the July meeting.
Labor, which in the 2001 election proposed rolling back the GST on these products, said it would support an exemption. Bill Shorten suggested it could be a trade off for the government's planned extension of the GST to Netflix.
Hockey's agreement that the exemption should be made was odd, to say the least. This was a fiercely debated issue at the start. It's true that there were inconsistencies in the exemptions, which include for instance condoms. But does the government really want to revisit individual items, when exempting one could open the way for argument over others?
Removing sanitary products would cost some A$30 million annually, according to Chris Richardson of Deloitte Access Economics.
And, as Richardson says, it is taking the debate off in the opposite direction to the one in which it should be going.
"Australia has too little reliance on indirect tax and too much reliance on direct tax," Richardson says.
A year ago Hockey was, not too subtly, trying to get the states to push for the GST to be increased or broadened.
Now the pressure is on them to exclude something, or wear the political odium for not doing so.
The three Labor states – Victoria, Queensland and South Australia – have quickly said they would support the exemption. The Labor government in the ACT is also on board.
Victorian Treasurer Tim Pallas said: "We've supported the removal of GST on sanitary products for a long time, so we welcome the federal treasurer's statements ... We look forward to Mr Hockey now putting his proposal to the states and territories, and allowing them the opportunity to back it in."
South Australian Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis said sanitary products "should be exempt".
The NSW Liberal government is much more cautious. NSW Treasurer Gladys Berejiklian said the states would have "an opportunity to discuss the GST and tax reform more broadly in July".
Tasmanian Treasurer Peter Gutwein said he was "happy to have that discussion with my state and federal counter-parts".
West Australian Treasurer Mike Nahan said that "any change to, or removal of, exemptions from the GST process should be part of broader GST reform.
"Western Australia considers broader reform of the GST distribution process, a process that currently results in Western Australia receiving an unacceptably low share of the national GST pool, to be our main priority."
The way things are shaping up, with Labor taking a unified position at federal and state level, Hockey has managed to have the Liberal states cornered on the issue – one that resonates with many women – and the federal government as well.
Michelle Grattan is Professorial Fellow at University of Canberra.
This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article .
( )
While discussion and debate is welcome, we do not tolerate name calling, personal attacks or other forms of abuse, and reserve the right to delete any comment we don't deem appropriate.
 
 
Join the conversation:
 
 
By submitting you agree to our Terms & Conditions
WOMEN'S AGENDA is the digital destination for career-minded women, where women (and men) help women achieve. We support women in business, women on boards, women in media, women in leadership and all aspirational women in the workplace.
Level 6, 22 William St, Melbourne, 3000
Ph: (02) 8353 0000 Fax: (03) 8623 9975
 

