Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
4:59PM Wednesday May 27, 2015
23149(0) online now
contact us
Date
Video will begin in 5 seconds.
Hockey faces budget grilling on QandA
Joe Hockey was the centre of attention on Monday's QandA program and while many viewers thought he was spinning the budget with a lot of talk, there was one question which left the Treasurer momentarily speechless.
PT1M39S 620 349
Autoplay On Off
Never has $10 a year caused so much friction between a treasurer and a prime minister, let alone catapulted to the forefront of tax policy a word most men cannot bring themselves to say.
"Why are you taxing my period?" is the question that has 86,000 women nodding in agreement. Brandishing her petition, and a giant tampon, activist Subeta Vimalaraha asked a surprised Treasurer Joe Hockey on Monday's Q&A program if he agreed sanitary products are essential.
Treasurer Joe Hockey and Prime Minister Tony Abbott during question time on Wednesday.
Photo: Andrew Meares
Mr Hockey, confronted by a giant tampon and the thought of saying the word on national television sought to cover his embarrassment by instantly agreeing.
Advertisement
"Do I think sanitary products are essential? I think so. I think so," he said before hastily promising to ask the state and territories to have the GST removed.  
But how much tampon tax are women actually paying?  Tampon producers recommend they be changed every 3-4 hours. So assuming a menstrual cycle lasts up to seven days and based on a tampon costing up to 21 cents each , it turns out women are paying just over $10 a year in GST.
Mr Abbott has appeared to dismiss the likelihood of removing the GST.
Photo: Andrew Meares
Even at a slightly higher price, 24 cents each, women could expect to pay 92 cents a month in GST or $10.99 a year.
(These calculations do not include the tax that would be paid on other sanitary products.)
"Tamponomics" has split the Prime Minister and Treasurer and was raised again in Parliament on Wednesday.  Prime Minister Tony Abbott appeared to dismiss the likelihood of removing the GST on what he calls "health products" given the states would be unlikely to agree to give up the revenue.
But he said he would "entertain" the idea if the states presented a united front on the issue.
"Joe was asked a question on Q&A by some activists and he said that he had some sympathy with their position," Mr Abbott told reporters in the Canberra suburb of Fyshwick.
"In the end what happens to the GST is wholly and solely a matter for the states and territories.
"I'm very happy to entertain a request from the states and territories if they can find a united position.
"If the states do decide that they want to narrow the tax base, obviously there are some revenue implications for the states and so be it."
Mr Hockey has asked his department to find out exactly how much revenue the states would stand to lose and remained defiant.
Speaking to Melbourne radio 3AW , Mr Hockey said the different treatment for tampons and condoms, is unfair.
"My view is it does sound unfair that GST applies in that area but does not apply to condoms and a range of other, not dissimilar products. I'm perfectly happy to put it to the states, we'll give the states the numbers on it and go from there," Mr Hockey told Neil Mitchell.
Ms Vimalarajah will be travelling to Parliament on Thursday and will be accompanied by a "giant dancing tampon" to continue her campaign against the "bloody unfair" tax.
The spectacle could turn even the driest economic rational (who would argue for the GST to be imposed on all goods and services and not reversed) to turn to….water.
Please select an answer.
You will need Cookies enabled to use our Voting Feature.
Poll closes in 4 hours.
Disclaimer:
These polls are not scientific and reflect the opinion only of visitors who have chosen to participate.
Same sex marriage vote 'sould be owned by parliament': PM
Any vote legalising same sex marriage shouldn't be owned by any particular political party says the Prime Minister.
PT2M45S 300 169 Wed May 27 04:58:17 UTC 2015


Now: 17.3° Max:
Date
Photo: Alex Ellinghausen
Joe Hockey has stood by his view that the so-called 'tampon tax' is unfair.
Earlier this week, Mr Hockey said the GST should be removed from sanitary products, and yesterday evening announced he had asked his department to cost the change. 
It seemed to me that Joe Hockey gave the Prime Minister a bit of a slap-down yesterday, and Joe's standing by that. 
Neil Mitchell, 3AW Mornings
But Mr Abbott appeared cooler on the idea on Tuesday, saying it was "not something this government has a plan to do".
The treasurer, however, stood by his stance when talking to Neil Mitchell today.
Also on the agenda in today's interview:
The pension
How we'll pay for the Medical Research Fund without the GP co-payment
The 'target on Joe Hockey's back

