Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .
4:59PM Wednesday May 27, 2015
23149(0) online now
contact us
Date
Video will begin in 5 seconds.
Hockey faces budget grilling on QandA
Joe Hockey was the centre of attention on Monday's QandA program and while many viewers thought he was spinning the budget with a lot of talk, there was one question which left the Treasurer momentarily speechless.
PT1M39S 620 349
Autoplay On Off
Never has $10 a year caused so much friction between a treasurer and a prime minister, let alone catapulted to the forefront of tax policy a word most men cannot bring themselves to say.
"Why are you taxing my period?" is the question that has 86,000 women nodding in agreement. Brandishing her petition, and a giant tampon, activist Subeta Vimalaraha asked a surprised Treasurer Joe Hockey on Monday's Q&A program if he agreed sanitary products are essential.
Treasurer Joe Hockey and Prime Minister Tony Abbott during question time on Wednesday.
Photo: Andrew Meares
Mr Hockey, confronted by a giant tampon and the thought of saying the word on national television sought to cover his embarrassment by instantly agreeing.
Advertisement
"Do I think sanitary products are essential? I think so. I think so," he said before hastily promising to ask the state and territories to have the GST removed.  
But how much tampon tax are women actually paying?  Tampon producers recommend they be changed every 3-4 hours. So assuming a menstrual cycle lasts up to seven days and based on a tampon costing up to 21 cents each , it turns out women are paying just over $10 a year in GST.
Mr Abbott has appeared to dismiss the likelihood of removing the GST.
Photo: Andrew Meares
Even at a slightly higher price, 24 cents each, women could expect to pay 92 cents a month in GST or $10.99 a year.
(These calculations do not include the tax that would be paid on other sanitary products.)
"Tamponomics" has split the Prime Minister and Treasurer and was raised again in Parliament on Wednesday.  Prime Minister Tony Abbott appeared to dismiss the likelihood of removing the GST on what he calls "health products" given the states would be unlikely to agree to give up the revenue.
But he said he would "entertain" the idea if the states presented a united front on the issue.
"Joe was asked a question on Q&A by some activists and he said that he had some sympathy with their position," Mr Abbott told reporters in the Canberra suburb of Fyshwick.
"In the end what happens to the GST is wholly and solely a matter for the states and territories.
"I'm very happy to entertain a request from the states and territories if they can find a united position.
"If the states do decide that they want to narrow the tax base, obviously there are some revenue implications for the states and so be it."
Mr Hockey has asked his department to find out exactly how much revenue the states would stand to lose and remained defiant.
Speaking to Melbourne radio 3AW , Mr Hockey said the different treatment for tampons and condoms, is unfair.
"My view is it does sound unfair that GST applies in that area but does not apply to condoms and a range of other, not dissimilar products. I'm perfectly happy to put it to the states, we'll give the states the numbers on it and go from there," Mr Hockey told Neil Mitchell.
Ms Vimalarajah will be travelling to Parliament on Thursday and will be accompanied by a "giant dancing tampon" to continue her campaign against the "bloody unfair" tax.
The spectacle could turn even the driest economic rational (who would argue for the GST to be imposed on all goods and services and not reversed) to turn to….water.
Please select an answer.
You will need Cookies enabled to use our Voting Feature.
Poll closes in 4 hours.
Disclaimer:
These polls are not scientific and reflect the opinion only of visitors who have chosen to participate.
Same sex marriage vote 'sould be owned by parliament': PM
Any vote legalising same sex marriage shouldn't be owned by any particular political party says the Prime Minister.
PT2M45S 300 169 Wed May 27 04:58:17 UTC 2015


Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Don't Miss Out —
Follow us on:
Joe Hockey, Australia's treasurer. Photographer: Mark Graham/Bloomberg
Australian Treasurer Joe Hockey’s pledge to consider excluding tampons from a sales tax has raised concern the government could end up shrinking its revenue base at a time when it needs expanding.
Hockey asked the Treasury to cost the removal of the 10 percent goods and services tax from the sanitary product after women holding a giant tampon questioned the treasurer on the fairness of the levy on Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Q&A program .
The debate over removing the GST from the item has shone a spotlight on a sclerotic tax system that has failed to keep pace with Australia’s changing spending patterns and left the government struggling to plug its budget deficit. Hockey’s move to review the levy on tampons, in place for 15 years, could prompt a flood of demands for essential items to be excluded.
“It opens up a can of worms,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in Sydney. “The debate should not be about excluding more from the GST, it should be about making it apply to a broader range of items.”
Hockey, in his budget released two weeks ago, forecast a budget shortfall for the 12 months through June 2016 of A$35.1 billion ($27.2 billion), wider than its December estimate of A$31.2 billion. It also wiped more than A$50 billion from its predicted tax revenue over the next four years due to a collapse in iron ore prices and low wage growth.
Cornered on Tax
The government has already ruled out tightening tax concessions for property investors and private pensions that might have helped boost revenue, and said it won’t increase the rate or broaden the scope of the GST in this term of government.
The treasurer Tuesday asked his department to calculate how much the tax exemption for tampons would cost. The night before, a university student told him on live television that it was inconsistent to apply the GST to tampons when it wasn’t levied on condoms, lubricants, sunscreen and nicotine patches because they were classed as important health goods.
Hockey agreed that based on this principle, sanitary products should be GST exempt. “It probably should, yes. The answer is yes,” he told Q&A.
The GST is raised by the federal government and then distributed to Australia’s states to allow them to fund services such as health and education.
Prime Minister Tony Abbott, who sought to play down his treasurer’s comments, told parliament Wednesday it would be up to the states to make the decision on excluding tampons.
“If they all agree on this, obviously we’d be happy to be accommodating,” Abbott told lawmakers. “If the states decide that they’d prefer to forego the revenue, then let it be.”
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:

