WI Supreme Justices to meet soon about electing chief justice - WKOW 27: Madison, WI Breaking News, Weather and Sports
Posted:
Updated:
MADISON (WKOW) -- Members of the Wisconsin Supreme Court plan to meet "quite soon" to decide who should serve as chief justice now that voters have approved giving them the power to pick their own chief, Justice Pat Roggensack said on Tuesday.
Wisconsin voters on Tuesday approved an amendment reversing 126 years of history that automatically made the most senior member of the Supreme Court the chief justice. The Republican-controlled Legislature passed the change and put it on the ballot.
Opponents have called it a clear attempt to take the "Chief Justice" title from Shirley Abrahamson, who is seen as one of the more liberal members of the court.
In an interview with The Associated Press, Justice Roggensack said no justice has publicly expressed interest in replacing Abrahamson and there's nothing prohibiting her from retaining the position she's held since 1996.
But Roggensack said her priority was making the court, which has been in the spotlight for high-profile disputes among the justices in recent years, function better. Roggensack is part of the court's four-justice conservative majority.
"We have some repair to do, frankly, with the image of the court and I want to work very hard to get that done," said Roggensack, a member of the court since 2003.
Roggensack said justices have not yet met to talk about the process for selecting a new chief but they intend to do that "quite soon."
Under the new amendment, justices will elect a chief justice every two years. There are no specifics about how that is to be done or when the first decision has to be made.
The chief serves as lead administrator for the state court system, with power to assign judges and justices for cases below the Supreme Court level, designate and assign reserve judges and schedule oral arguments before the high court, among other duties.
Justices are paid $147,403 a year while the chief justice earns $155,403.
Supporters of the change, including the state chamber of commerce, which spent at least $600,000 to get it adopted, argued it's undemocratic to have the position go automatically to the justice with the most experience.
While 22 other states use some sort of similar selection process, changing from one system to another and replacing the current chief justice is unprecedented, said Bill Raftery, an analyst with National Center for State Courts based in Williamsburg, Virginia.
"There's nothing comparable," he said. "This has just not happened before. ... It's exceptional and unique."
27 News Headlines More>>
Madison hospital treated record amount of sexual assault patients in 2014
Madison hospital treated record amount of sexual assault patients in 2014
Meriter Hospital, home to Dane County's only Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) program, reports a year-over-year 7-percent rise in exams and consultations during 2014, and the most ever in the program's 27-year history. More >>
Meriter Hospital, home to Dane County's only Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) program, reports a year-over-year 7-percent rise in exams and consultations during 2014, and the most ever in the program's 27-year history. More >>
news alert
Democrats on Wednesday renewed their call for major changes to Gov. Scott Walker's budget proposal. The changes include reducing a $300 million cut to the University of Wisconsin System and increasing spending on public schools. More >>
Democrats on Wednesday renewed their call for major changes to Gov. Scott Walker's budget proposal. The changes include reducing a $300 million cut to the University of Wisconsin System and increasing spending on public schools. More >>
College research finds that time spent on social media could impact mental health
College research finds that time spent on social media could impact mental health
A new study reveals that using Facebook could lead to symptoms of depression. Researchers at the University of Houston found that Facebook users felt depressed when comparing themselves to others. More >>
A new study reveals that using Facebook could lead to symptoms of depression. Researchers at the University of Houston found that Facebook users felt depressed when comparing themselves to others. More >>
   
All content © Copyright 2000 - 2015 WorldNow and WKOW. All Rights Reserved.

