More Community News:
SEAN MURPH, Associated Press
Updated 6:18 pm, Monday, April 6, 2015
Oklahoma state Sen. Greg Treat, R-Oklahoma City, answers a question on his bill during a committee meeting in Oklahoma City, Monday, April 6, 2015. The Senate Committee on Health and Human Services voted 8-1 for the bill that increases the wait time from 24 to 72 hours after a woman receives required information about an abortion procedure before receiving an abortion. It now heads to the full Senate.        Photo: Sue Ogrocki, AP
 
Page 1 of 1
OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) — Oklahoma would become the fourth state in the country to require women to wait at least 72 hours before receiving an abortion under a bill overwhelmingly approved Monday by a state Senate committee .
Under current Oklahoma law, a doctor is required to provide a patient with numerous details at least 24 hours before the procedure, including the age of the fetus, risks involved and that ultrasound and heart tone monitoring are available. The bill, approved 8-1 by the Committee on Health and Human Services , would increase the wait time to 72 hours.
"In Oklahoma, we have a waiting period for divorce of 10 days. If there are minor children it is 90 days," said Sen. Greg Treat , R-Oklahoma City. "We should also take it very seriously when we're talking about the irrevocable decision of abortion."
The bill now heads to the full Senate, where it's likely to pass. It is endorsed by Oklahomans For Life, which pushes anti-abortion measures in the state every year.
Only three other states currently have 72-hour waiting periods: Missouri, South Dakota and Utah, according to the New York-based Guttmacher Institute , a nonprofit that supports access to legal abortion. Alabama has a 48-hour waiting period, while Arkansas' Legislature has sent a 48-hour waiting period bill to the governor's desk.
But opponents say the bill is simply another barrier that Oklahoma lawmakers are placing in front of women who are seeking a safe and legal abortion.
"Women are more than capable of making their own decisions regarding their health and this bill does nothing more than erect insulting and demeaning hurdles to obtaining a safe and legal abortion," Amanda Allen , state legislative counsel for the Center for Reproductive Rights , said in a statement.
Oklahoma has been sued at least six times since 2010 over various restrictions on abortion and contraception, including two lawsuits that are pending challenging bills approved by the GOP-controlled Legislature last year.
One lawsuit targets a proposed law that restricts the use of abortion-inducing drugs, while a second challenges a bill that requires abortion providers to have admitting privileges at a nearby hospital. Both have been put on hold by the state Supreme Court while the cases are being considered.
___
Stay up to date on all of Fairfield's community events, high school sports and more in our Week in Photos slideshow!
© 2015 The Hearst Corporation

