US Elections 2016: Frenzy Over ‘Hispanic’ Jeb Bush
Image from Wikimedia Commons by Gage Skidmore
Jeb Bush has been trolled on social media after he mistakenly listed himself as Hispanic on a 2009 voter-registration application form from Miami-Dade Country. While his family just laughed at the incident, political rivals have warned that Bush may have committed a felony.
‘Hispanic’ Jeb Bush
Bush has mistakenly identified himself as Hispanic, The New York Times found out. While he has apologized for the mistake, it does not stop netizens from trolling him on Twitter.
My mistake! Don’t think I’ve fooled anyone! RT @JebBushJr LOL – come on dad, think you checked the wrong box #HonoraryLatino
One netizen has set up a parody account of Bush.
Hola, amigos! Me llamow Heb. Soy Hispanico. Well, soy hispano asi asi. Only quando voter: http://t.co/qo0Z3Am1PG — Yeb Bush (@MexicanJeb) April 6, 2015
The account has since been flooded with sarcastic comments on Bush being Hispanic.
Want to get updated with US ELECTION stories? Subscribe now.
Email Address *
Mailing List *
YEB BUSH, YOU CANNOT BE “MEXICAN BY INJECTION” IF YOU ARE A GRINGO AND YOU ARE THE INJECTOR. #basicbiology
Right now Ted Cruz is trying to figure out which box to check to get back into the news — Lalo Alcaraz (@laloalcaraz) April 6, 2015
First exec order as president: EVERY politician will have the right to become Hispanic without fear of prosecution. #DontTreadOnMe
According to Bush’s spokeswoman Kristy Campbell, the mistake was a “paperwork error.”
“The Governor’s family certainly got a good laugh out of it,” she said in an email to reporters.
Jeb Bush’s 2009 Voter-Reg Application http://t.co/MLQwjorT9U @JebBush LOL – come on dad, think you checked the wrong box #HonoraryLatino — Jeb Bush, Jr. (@JebBushJr) April 6, 2015
However, Florida Democrats are warning that Bush might have committed a felony by putting false information on election ballots.
Hey @JebBush , did you know it’s a 3rd degree felony to submit false information on your voter registration form? pic.twitter.com/6xCafz1ydB
Bush vs Clinton
Bush may have strong ties with Hispanics, but this will not make him win the 2016 presidential elections versus Hillary Clinton, according to a poll conducted by ABC News and The Washington Post showing Bush trailing behind Clinton among Hispanic voters by 71-26 with a margin of 3-1 in favor of the former secretary of state.
The poll conducted by Langer Research also found that Hispanic voters identify themselves more as Democrats rather than Republicans by 45-15 percent.
Bush hinted about running for the 2016 presidential elections on Dec 2014.
“We shared good food and watched a whole lot of football. We also talked about the future of our nation. As a result of these conversations and thoughtful consideration of the kind of strong leadership I think America needs; I have decided to actively explore the possibility of running for President of the United States,” Bush posted on Facebook at the time.
About Athena Yenko
Took up Communication Arts, Major in Writing   Covers World, Politics and Business news
Related Articles
March 18, 2015
March 17, 2015
April 7, 2015
The Morning News USA is rewriting the way news are delivered.
Twitter Feeds
DON'T GET LEFT BEHIND!
Don't skip the most important news. Subscribe to Morning News USA daily emails to get the news you need to know, every morning.
Sign up in seconds
Email Address *
No thanks, I’m not looking for daily news.

