NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Henrik Lundqvist Keeps Rangers Alive Against Lightning
By TIM ROHAN
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Rangers’ Jesper Fast sliding into Lightning goalie Ben Bishop during the first period of Game 6. Credit Mike Carlson/Getty Images
Advertisement
TAMPA, Fla. —  Henrik Lundqvist stared down elimination, again, on Tuesday. He made easy saves, lucky saves, spectacular saves. He made kick saves, diving saves, glove saves. He made one by catching a puck with the handle of his stick. He made another on a breakaway and was tackled by a charging Lightning forward. Lying on his back, disoriented, he looked up and reflexively stuck out his arm across the empty net to prevent a rebound.
Only the Rangers know how comforting it feels having Lundqvist in net when their season is on the brink, similar to the way a child feels clutching a favorite stuffed animal.
Lundqvist made 36 saves, thwarting the Lightning’s dynamic offense and leading the Rangers to a 7-3 win in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference finals. Now, thanks to him, and Derick Brassard (hat trick), the Rangers will play Game 7 on Friday at Madison Square Garden.
Related Coverage
“It’s really the best feeling,” Lundqvist said of playing another Game 7. “Even though it’s a lot of adrenaline and pressure and you’re nervous going into these games, you have to enjoy it. Everything is on the line again, playing in front of your fans. I’ve always said there’s no better feeling than to win a big game at home.”
His counterpart, Ben Bishop, was benched midway through the third period after he had allowed five goals.
The Rangers had started the day sounding hopeful. They had been in this situation together, trailing in a series, numerous times. They had their talking points and clichés down so well they may as well have read from scripts. They believed in Lundqvist. They had faith in one another. They had deconstructed the entire series into one convenient bite-size task: Win this game, and see what happens.
The Rangers had just overcome a three-games-to-one deficit in the previous series against the Washington Capitals. They had won 14 of their last 17 elimination games, including eight of nine under Coach Alain Vigneault. “A lot of it is just being in the right place mentally,” Lundqvist had said.
The Lightning started the game fast, as usual, but Lundqvist was equal to each challenge. He had to be to keep the Rangers’ season alive.
The Rangers survived the barrage, and Brassard opened the scoring at 3 minutes 36 seconds when he took a nifty pass from J. T. Miller and backhanded the puck past Bishop. Defenseman Keith Yandle made the score 2-0 when he flipped the puck from inside the blue line past a crowd of players and over Bishop’s arm at 15:30.
The Lightning closed within 2-1 on a power play when defenseman Anton Stralman made a crisp stretch pass from his own zone all the way to the Rangers’ blue line, splitting defensemen Ryan McDonagh and Dan Girardi, hitting Ryan Callahan in stride and creating a breakaway.
Callahan pulled the puck left and easily backhanded it around Lundqvist easily.
Still, after being outshot by 16-7, the Rangers were fortunate to lead after one period.
The Lightning had enough skill, from Steven Stamkos’s line to the Triplets line, to keep firing shots at Lundqvist. But the Rangers did their best to limit the damage, muscling the Lightning enough to slow their rushes and clearing out easy rebounds. Then if the Lightning ever managed to get a brief opening, Lundqvist was there, ready.
Advertisement
He paused for a moment, and his voice softened.
“Like I said, in this situation here, I just focus on my job.”
Lundqvist made 13 saves in the scoreless second period, as the Rangers tightened their defense, trying to protect the one-goal lead.
When the third period started, they attacked Bishop in waves, beating the Lightning to loose pucks and leaving them rattled along the boards. They exposed the young, 6-foot-7 Bishop for his cavalier positioning in the crease and penchant for letting rebounds bounce off his big body.
The Rangers scored three goals in a span of 4:12.
“The message after the second period, we had to keep forechecking and keep our legs moving,” Brassard said. “We wanted to make plays. We didn’t want to sit back against that team. We just went out there, we were pretty hungry on the forecheck and we got a big goal. That’s the way we need to play with the lead.”
Miller opened the barrage at 3:02, with assists from his linemates Brassard and Rick Nash. The fourth line made the score 4-1 on a goal by James Shepard at the six-minute mark. Brassard notched his second goal at 7:14, with assists from Miller and Nash. After Nikita Kucherov made it 5-2 at 7:50, Nash scored a power-play goal at 10:21. Kucherov scored his second at 13:21, and Brassard notched the hat trick with an empty-netter at 18:19 to close out the scoring.
“We showed a lot of character tonight,” Brassard said. “Henrik was really solid the first 10 minutes of the game, made some big saves for us. We had to step up. Our line was huge tonight. Miller really energized our line. Nash was a beast.”
When the buzzer sounded, Rangers fans, who had made their way down to first rows of the rink, erupted in celebration.
Now it is on to Game 7, the winner advancing to the Stanley Cup finals.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B9 of the New York edition with the headline: Lundqvist Keeps Rangers Alive. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist stops a shot from Lightning right wing Ryan Callahan as James Sheppard defends, during Game 6. (Phelan M. Ebenhack/Associated Press)
Some say that the Stanley Cup is the toughest championship to win. To have a shot at doing so, however, the Lightning have an arguably even tougher task on their hands, and that is beating Henrik Lundqvist in a Game 7.
Tampa Bay could have avoided this Herculean challenge simply by winning Game 6 of the Eastern Conference finals Tuesday, in which they enjoyed the advantage of home ice. But the team got drubbed instead, 7-3 , and now the Rangers enjoy the ultimate advantage in a goalie who seemingly never loses when the stakes are at their highest.
The stakes were equally as high, at least for New York, in Game 6, and its goalie was more than up to the challenge, especially when he stoned Lightning star Steven Stamkos right on the doorstep:
another look at lundqvist save on stamkos pic.twitter.com/WmL5ZSoiZU
Lundqvist is working on a NHL-record streak of six straight wins in Game 7 situations. To put that into some perspective, only two other goalies, the legendary pair of Patrick Roy and Martin Brodeur, can say that they have so many as six Game 7 wins in their careers.
And it’s not like Lundqvist is simply doing an average job in those games while getting stellar offensive support. He has not allowed more than one goal in any of the six contests, making 179 saves on 184 shots for a 0.84 goals-against average. Then there’s this stat, just to support the theory that the goalie’s Game 7 prowess has quasi-supernatural qualities:
5/13/13: Henrik 35 saves, Rangers win Game 7 5/13/14: Henrik 35 saves, Rangers win Game 7 5/13/15: Henrik 35 saves, Rangers win Game 7
Of course, we’re past May 13 now, but we’re not done counting the ways in which Lundqvist figures to be nearly impossible to beat in Friday’s Game 7 in New York. He is 10-0 in his past 10 elimination games at Madison Square Garden, allowing less than a goal per game in those contests.
So the Lightning are set to bolt from the playoffs, right? Well, maybe not.
For one thing, there’s the simple notion of regression to the mean. Lundqvist is due to play relatively poorly in a Game 7, with his streak coming to an end, at some point, and it may as well be on Friday. After all, he had looked nearly untouchable in these very playoffs, giving up a paltry 21 goals in his first 13 games, before Tampa Bay torched him for six scores in both Game 2 and Game 3.
And that gets to a stronger source of optimism for the Lightning and their fans: the team’s offense. It led the NHL this season goals per game (3.16), and even in Tuesday’s dispiriting loss, the team served notice that it wouldn’t go quietly, scoring two goals in the third period.
Those goals were scored by right wing Nikita Kucherov, who had been all too quiet in the series, scoring just once in the first five games. If Kucherov can stay hot, he’ll give the Rangers a third dangerous player about whom to worry, along with Stamkos and Tyler Johnson.
But it’s Tampa Bay that has the biggest worry — how to possibly get pucks past Lundqvist, New York’s Game 7 Goliath.
This former editor and part-time writer at The Post is now happy to prove that if you combine 'blowhard' and 'blaggard,' you get 'blogger.' He previously had used 'Desmond Bieler' as his byline, but feels that shortening the first name to 'Des' nicely conveys his ever-decreasing gravitas. He also covers Fantasy Football.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!

