NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
Henrik Lundqvist Keeps Rangers Alive Against Lightning
By TIM ROHAN
MAY 26, 2015
Photo
The Rangers’ Jesper Fast sliding into Lightning goalie Ben Bishop during the first period of Game 6. Credit Mike Carlson/Getty Images
Advertisement
TAMPA, Fla. —  Henrik Lundqvist stared down elimination, again, on Tuesday. He made easy saves, lucky saves, spectacular saves. He made kick saves, diving saves, glove saves. He made one by catching a puck with the handle of his stick. He made another on a breakaway and was tackled by a charging Lightning forward. Lying on his back, disoriented, he looked up and reflexively stuck out his arm across the empty net to prevent a rebound.
Only the Rangers know how comforting it feels having Lundqvist in net when their season is on the brink, similar to the way a child feels clutching a favorite stuffed animal.
Lundqvist made 36 saves, thwarting the Lightning’s dynamic offense and leading the Rangers to a 7-3 win in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference finals. Now, thanks to him, and Derick Brassard (hat trick), the Rangers will play Game 7 on Friday at Madison Square Garden.
Related Coverage
“It’s really the best feeling,” Lundqvist said of playing another Game 7. “Even though it’s a lot of adrenaline and pressure and you’re nervous going into these games, you have to enjoy it. Everything is on the line again, playing in front of your fans. I’ve always said there’s no better feeling than to win a big game at home.”
His counterpart, Ben Bishop, was benched midway through the third period after he had allowed five goals.
The Rangers had started the day sounding hopeful. They had been in this situation together, trailing in a series, numerous times. They had their talking points and clichés down so well they may as well have read from scripts. They believed in Lundqvist. They had faith in one another. They had deconstructed the entire series into one convenient bite-size task: Win this game, and see what happens.
The Rangers had just overcome a three-games-to-one deficit in the previous series against the Washington Capitals. They had won 14 of their last 17 elimination games, including eight of nine under Coach Alain Vigneault. “A lot of it is just being in the right place mentally,” Lundqvist had said.
The Lightning started the game fast, as usual, but Lundqvist was equal to each challenge. He had to be to keep the Rangers’ season alive.
The Rangers survived the barrage, and Brassard opened the scoring at 3 minutes 36 seconds when he took a nifty pass from J. T. Miller and backhanded the puck past Bishop. Defenseman Keith Yandle made the score 2-0 when he flipped the puck from inside the blue line past a crowd of players and over Bishop’s arm at 15:30.
The Lightning closed within 2-1 on a power play when defenseman Anton Stralman made a crisp stretch pass from his own zone all the way to the Rangers’ blue line, splitting defensemen Ryan McDonagh and Dan Girardi, hitting Ryan Callahan in stride and creating a breakaway.
Callahan pulled the puck left and easily backhanded it around Lundqvist easily.
Still, after being outshot by 16-7, the Rangers were fortunate to lead after one period.
The Lightning had enough skill, from Steven Stamkos’s line to the Triplets line, to keep firing shots at Lundqvist. But the Rangers did their best to limit the damage, muscling the Lightning enough to slow their rushes and clearing out easy rebounds. Then if the Lightning ever managed to get a brief opening, Lundqvist was there, ready.
Advertisement
He paused for a moment, and his voice softened.
“Like I said, in this situation here, I just focus on my job.”
Lundqvist made 13 saves in the scoreless second period, as the Rangers tightened their defense, trying to protect the one-goal lead.
When the third period started, they attacked Bishop in waves, beating the Lightning to loose pucks and leaving them rattled along the boards. They exposed the young, 6-foot-7 Bishop for his cavalier positioning in the crease and penchant for letting rebounds bounce off his big body.
The Rangers scored three goals in a span of 4:12.
“The message after the second period, we had to keep forechecking and keep our legs moving,” Brassard said. “We wanted to make plays. We didn’t want to sit back against that team. We just went out there, we were pretty hungry on the forecheck and we got a big goal. That’s the way we need to play with the lead.”
Miller opened the barrage at 3:02, with assists from his linemates Brassard and Rick Nash. The fourth line made the score 4-1 on a goal by James Shepard at the six-minute mark. Brassard notched his second goal at 7:14, with assists from Miller and Nash. After Nikita Kucherov made it 5-2 at 7:50, Nash scored a power-play goal at 10:21. Kucherov scored his second at 13:21, and Brassard notched the hat trick with an empty-netter at 18:19 to close out the scoring.
“We showed a lot of character tonight,” Brassard said. “Henrik was really solid the first 10 minutes of the game, made some big saves for us. We had to step up. Our line was huge tonight. Miller really energized our line. Nash was a beast.”
When the buzzer sounded, Rangers fans, who had made their way down to first rows of the rink, erupted in celebration.
Now it is on to Game 7, the winner advancing to the Stanley Cup finals.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page B9 of the New York edition with the headline: Lundqvist Keeps Rangers Alive. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


The Tampa Bay Lightning find themselves presented with an exciting opportunity tonight as they prepare to head into the Amalie Arena to take on the New York Rangers in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference Finals. They are faced with an opportunity to close out the series and advance to the Stanley Cup Finals.
MORE HEADLINES AROUND FANSIDED:
Right now, there is just one thing standing in between the Tampa Bay Lightning and their chance to make history once again; the New York Rangers. As one can imagine, the Blue Shirts are not too interested in heading back to Madison Square Garden without a game left to play.
If you were one of the many who were tuned into Game 5 on Sunday night, you know full well that the Tampa Bay Lightning had found their groove. The special teams was working optimally, as they were able to keep the Rangers from capitalizing on all four of their opportunities on the Power Play, and their defense was working hand-in-hand with Lightning netminder Ben Bishop to keep the puck out of the back of the net.
While all of these are definite positives for our Boys in Blue as they head into Game 6 tonight, if the Tampa Bay Lightning wants to come out of tonight’s encounter with their ticket punched to the next round they are going to have to maintain their focus and play exactly as they did in the previous game; defensively minded.
As you know, when a team has their backs against the wall, they are going to come at the opposition with every single thing that they have in their arsenal. This means that they are going to be prepared to play an incredibly physical, defensive-minded game and they are going to dig for any exploit they can find on Ben Bishop .
The Lightning knows exactly what they need to do in order to get the job done. The only thing they have to do now is head out on the ice, maintain their focus on the task at hand, and do what they do best; score goals and win games.
Here is a look at all the information you’ll need to make sure you don’t miss a moment of the action tonight as the Tampa Bay Lightning take on the New York Rangers in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference Finals.
Game: Tampa Bay Lightning vs. New York Rangers
Venue: Amalie Arena
Location: Tampa, Florida
TV Info: NBC Sports Network, CBC, TVA
Radio Info: Lightning Radio on  970WFLA  or TBL Power Play on  iHeartRadio
Subscribe to FanSided Daily for your morning fix.
Enter your email and stay in the know.
More TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING coverage from 120 Sports:
Sign up for our daily newsletter
Pick your favorite teams, topics and players and get content right in your inbox.

