Recent
Recent
Recent
Recent
Other Vehicles for Sale
Employment News
Saved
Abraham Lincoln’s body was transported via train from Washington, D.C., to Springfield for burial, a 12-day journey of some 1,654 miles.
The route essentially retraced the path Lincoln had traveled as president-elect in 1861, with the deletion of Pittsburgh and Cincinnati, and the addition of Chicago.
The train carried about 300 mourners and the coffin of Lincoln's son, Willie. The child had died in the White House in 1862 at age 11, but the coffin was disinterred to be buried with his father. Mary Todd Lincoln remained in mourning in Washington.
Throughout the long journey, entire populations of rural America were waiting alongside the tracks, no matter what time or day or night. Officials in Richmond, Ind., estimated its mourners at 15,000, a number that exceeded the town’s population — and at 3:15 in the morning!
And at certain cities the coffin was taken off the train for open-casket viewing and processions. It is said that more than 1 million people viewed Lincoln’s body, more than had seen him when he was alive.
Here is a summary of the journey as written by Roger J. Norton, the founder of the Abraham Lincoln Research Site and rogerjnorton.com .
Friday, April 21: The body is viewed in Baltimore’s Merchants Exchange Building and later in the House of Representatives in Harrisburg, Pa.
Saturday, April 22: The coffin was placed in the East Wing of Independence Hall in Philadelphia, where the Declaration of Independence had been signed. Viewing there was by invitation only.
Sunday, April 23: The body remained in Philadelphia, where a long line of people began forming for public viewing at 5 a.m. At its greatest, the double-line was three miles long and the wait was up to five hours. Officials estimated 300,000 people passed the coffin.
Monday, April 24: In Jersey City, N.J., the coffin was displayed in City Hall; at one point more than 500,000 people waited in line.
Tuesday, April 25: In New York, the coffin was placed on a 14-foot long funeral car drawn by 16 horses wearing long blankets. An estimated 75,000 ordinary citizens marched in the huge procession through New York's jam-packed streets. Windows along the route rented for up to $100 a person. Later that day there was public viewing in the State House in Albany.
Wednesday, April 26: At noon, a grand procession got underway in Albany with Lincoln's coffin resting in a specially built catafalque, drawn by six white horses.
Thursday, April 27: The body was viewed in Buffalo’s St. James Hall by about 100,000.
Friday, April 28: In Cleveland, the coffin was placed in a pagoda in a public park, the only city where viewing was outdoors. In 15 hours, 150,000 were able to pass by the coffin.
Saturday, April 29: Viewing in the State Capitol in Columbus, Ohio.
Sunday, April 30: Viewing in the State House in Indianapolis.
Monday, May 1: The train arrived in Chicago at 11 a.m., and there was a procession rivaling New York’s in size and grandeur. The route went down Michigan Avenue to Lake Street to Clark Street to Court House Square. Open viewing was at the Cook County Courthouse, beginning at 6 p.m. and lasting through the night and all the next day.
Tuesday, May 2: Throughout the day, at the rate of 7,000 people per hour, mourners passed by the coffin. The body's discoloration, noticeable in New York, had reached the extent of distressing the viewers.
Wednesday, May 3: The train pulled into the Chicago and Alton depot on Jefferson Street in Springfield. Lincoln would lie in state in the Statehouse's Hall of Representatives, the same room in which he gave his famous "House Divided" speech. Lincoln's face had become further discolored; an undertaker using rouge chalk and amber restored the face to near-normal color.
Additionally, hundreds of people gathered around Lincoln's home, where his horse, Old Bob, now 16, and his dog, Fido, had been brought back for the day.
Thursday, May 4: At 10 a.m., the doors to the Statehouse were closed and Lincoln's body was prepared for burial by the undertaker and embalmer. The coffin was carried to a hearse that was followed by Old Bob wearing a mourning blanket. Lincoln's only two blood relatives in attendance were his son, Robert, and his cousin, John Hanks. The procession was the largest spectacle the Midwest had ever seen.
What happened to the rail car: When the military railroad system was disbanded and returned to civilian control, the funeral car was sold to the Union Pacific Railroad, according to an article in the Feb. 1, 1996, edition of the Polish-American Journal.
It was later sold to an entrepreneur as a commercial exhibit and then to a former Soo Line president who restored it and promoted it as a "sacred relic." The car was destroyed March 18, 1911, after a fire swept through a portion of the Minnesota community near Minneapolis where it was stored.
Copyright 2015 The Quad-City Times. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Countryside Kennel & Resort
The Grinders & Spaghetti House
Big 5 Power Conditioning
The Grinders & Spaghetti House
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with qctimes.com account:
Username & Password Required!

