What is my password?
Please enter the email address associated with your Investors.com account below and a temporary password will be emailed to you.
Processing...
 
Thu, Apr 09 2015 00:00:00 EA13_ISSUES
BY STEVE FORBES , Investor's Business Daily
06:02 PM ET
American businesses of all sizes increasingly depend on access to international markets for buying and selling goods and services that will expand our economy, create jobs and increase economic efficiency in nearly every sector of the economy.
In today's globalized 21st-century economy, it's critical to strengthen relationships with our global trading partners, and Congress and the White House have an opportunity to do just that by finalizing both the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership and the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Adopting TTIP and TPP will strengthen our economy by removing barriers to new markets and increasing exports as well as foreign direct-investment in America.
For example, TPP — a trade pact that includes the United States, Japan and 10 other Pacific Rim countries — is a historic opportunity to expand our trade relationships in the Pacific Rim. Consider: With the inclusion of Japan, the world's third-largest economy, TPP nations will account for 40% of global gross domestic product.
Historically, free trade agreements (FTAs) provide a boon to the American economy. In 2014, nearly 50% of U.S. exports went to FTA partner countries. Since 2009, America's total exports have grown by roughly the same percent, contributing almost one-third of U.S. economic growth.
FTAs like TTIP and TPP benefit American workers by directly and indirectly creating millions of high-paying jobs.
The White House projects that TPP would boost American exports by over $120 billion a year by 2025 while creating 650,000 additional jobs in the U.S. For the U.S. economy, which is starving for high-paying jobs, this trade agreement is a no-brainer.
In addition to promoting U.S. commercial interests, FTAs have advanced key policy and societal goals by exporting the higher U.S. standards concerning labor, working conditions, the environment, corruption, drug trafficking and democratic reform.
TPP also has the potential to deliver significant global strategic advantages beyond extending policy best practices and economic benefits.
An FTA with Japan solidifies our alliance and fosters in a new era of cooperation and partnership. Some trade unions and other anti-free-trade elements have taken very self-serving positions and opposed Japan's inclusion in TPP.
But Japan's inclusion creates a historic opportunity for the U.S. to do more business in critical sectors including financial services, automotive industries, agriculture and the Internet economy.
Deepening our relationship with Japan is critical at this time as China becomes more aggressive militarily in the Pacific region and allies are worried about U.S. resolve.
Economically, Japan's inclusion in TPP puts pressure on China, the United States' largest economic rival, to conform to modern labor standards and alter its unfair trade policies and its assault on American intellectual property. Solidifying the U.S.-Japan relationship through TPP will create a check and balance on China's expanding influence in the Pacific Rim.
04/07/2015 05:00 PM ET
04/06/2015 06:50 PM ET
04/02/2015 07:02 PM ET
04/01/2015 06:10 PM ET
03/31/2015 06:48 PM ET
I am a current subscriber and need to register on
     Investors.com.
I am not a current subscriber and want to register
     for free membership on Investors.com.
 
Â© 2015 MarketSmith, Incorporated. Charts provided by MarketSmith are used by IBD under license agreement. MarketSmith is a registered trademark of MarketSmith, Incorporated.
 

