By Associated Press April 8 at 5:22 PM
ANNAPOLIS, Md. — A Maryland bill that would put prison sentences of life without parole in the hands of judges needs more time for consideration, lawmakers said.
Wednesday’s development came after state senators decided too many important issues were being raised so close to the end of the legislative session.
The bill now heads back to the committee level with potential to return for next year’s session, which ends midnight on Monday.
Under the proposed bill, judges, not juries, would decide if someone convicted of first-degree murder is sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Current law leaves open the possibility of someone fighting his or her conviction if they were not given the option of a jury deciding their life sentence.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

