Baton Rouge
Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Louisiana religious freedom bill would do what controversial Indiana bill was accused of doing: legal expert
Gay Pride State Capitol
One of the country's leading experts on religious liberty says Louisiana's religious freedom bill is more aggressive than a similar bill in Indiana, which caused outcry from the LGBT community. (Diana Samuels, NOLA.com | The Times-Picayune)
A leading constitutional law expert on religious liberty said a recent bill  filed by a Louisiana legislator is the same as -- or possible more aggressive than -- legislation that caused an uproar over LGBT rights in Indiana. 
"This bill would do part of what the Indiana [legislation] was falsely accused of doing," wrote Douglas Laycock, a University of Virginia law professor, after reading  the Louisiana bill  Friday afternoon. 
"It would not be a license to discriminate against gays, but it would be a license to the private sector to refuse, for religious or moral reasons, to recognize same-sex marriages. It covers not just churches and religious organizations, but also the for-profit sector, and with no limit on size or diversity of ownership," he said in an email. 
Laycock added he expects the bill to be "bitterly attacked." While a supporter of same-sex marriage, the UVa. law professor said he was in favor  of the controversial Indiana law. His view is that the law doesn't accomplish what LGBT advocates claim. (The Indiana law has since been changed, largely due to public outcry over perceived discrimination against the LGBT community.) 
Regardless, Laycock said the Louisiana bill would go too far. 
"Protecting religious organizations makes sense. Protecting marriage counselors, and very small businesses in the wedding industry, where the owner has to be personally involved in helping with the wedding, makes sense to me, but the gay rights side bitterly opposes even that," he wrote in an email. "This bill makes no effort to draw any lines; it goes way too far."
Gene Mills, head of the conservative Christian Louisiana Family Forum, acknowledged Johnson's bill is supposed to be similar those that sparked backlash in other states. 
"It delves into -- but not entirely -- what is taking place in Arkansas and Indiana," said Mills, the leading conservative Christian activist in Louisiana and a supporter of the bill. 
Equality Louisiana, one of the state's leading LGBT advocacy groups, has already spoken out against the bill. 
"It is clear that the 'Louisiana Marriage and Conscience Act' aims to allow discrimination against the gay and transgender people in our state," read a statement from Equality Louisiana and Louisiana Progress Action. "In spite of claims otherwise, there can be no mistake about whom this new bill is targeting."
According to Caswell, state Rep. Mike Johnson -- who introduced the legislation -- is likely responding to the U.S. Supreme Court's decision to deliver a ruling on same-sex marriage in June. If the court rules in favor of same-sex marriage, businesses who oppose it might have to start recognizing same-sex couples in a manner with which they are not comfortable. 
"Rep. Johnson is trying to preemptively give individuals and businesses a way to disregard federal laws and rulings," according to Equality Louisiana and Louisiana Progress Action. 
To read more about this legislation, go here . 
. . . . . .
Julia O'Donoghue  is a state politics reporter based in  Baton Rouge . She can be reached at jodonoghue@nola.com or on Twitter at  @jsodonoghue . Please consider following us on Facebook at  NOLA.com  and  NOLA.com-Baton Rouge.
Breaking News/Live events
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for signing up!
Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you dont' see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Video          of the Day
© 2015 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

