 
Follow us:
Despite Tense Moments, Bolstered Pre-K Program Gets Green Light from Texas House
By Karina Kling
OUT OF
Free Video Views Remaining
To get you to the stories you care about, we are offering everyone
10 video views to be used over the next 30 days.
video customers who login with their  TWC ID.
Time Warner Cable News offers all users 10 free videos every 30 days, but you've used up all your complimentary views for the month.
If you're a Time Warner Cable video customer, sign in with your TWC ID for full access.
A bill aimed at improving pre-K programs in the state received an initial okay from state lawmakers Wednesday, but the battle to approve early education legislation backed by Gov. Greg Abbott had its hurdles under the pink dome.  
After knocking down three different attempts to derail it, the bill's author Rep. Dan Hubert then tried to fend off criticism from Tea Party members. He first reiterated what the bill does not do—it does not expand pre-K or create a universal pre-K program.
"This is creating a high quality, gold-star standard program for educating our most vulnerable children," Rep. Huberty said.  
Still, conservative lawmakers say the proposal grows government.
"A lot of these children at that age need to be at home learning from their parents,” Republican Rep. Tony Tinderholdt said. "I just don't agree that every time government should come forward and take responsibility."
After several hours of debate, Huberty took time to address outside conservative groups lobbying for the legislation to fail.
"We should not be beholden to a conservative group, or some group, or outside interest group,” he said. “We are the House of Representatives. We should make these decisions." 
Meanwhile, Democrats wanted the bill to go further.
"Why did you decide, and if I'm understanding, your bill does not require districts to move to a full day or to offer a full day of pre-K programming?” Democratic Rep. Eric Johnson said. “Why was that decision made?"
Huberty says the bill doesn't bar districts from offering full day, but cost and classroom space limit expansion statewide. The bolstered pre-K plan would mean schools could get up to $1,500 per eligible student.
 
 
© 1999-2015 Time Warner Cable Enterprises LLC. All Rights Reserved.

