Photo by: 
AP photo
TOUGH-LUCK LOSER: Clay Buchholz pitches during the Sox’ 2-1 loss to the Twins last night in Minneapolis.
1
MINNEAPOLIS — The way things are going for the Red Sox, it makes all the sense in the world that Clay Buchholz nearly threw a complete game last night without his best stuff — and still took a loss.
The right-hander delivered his fourth consecutive quality start but had nothing to show for it after a 2-1 loss to the Twins. He has lost three straight starts, and in all of them, the Sox have scored one run.
“I felt like I did a pretty good job,” he said. “Just seems like we’re running into a lot of guys that are throwing the ball (well) right now.”
Buchholz allowed two runs in the first inning, which began with a double and walk before he got a double play. The two-out momentum sputtered, as he served up back-to-back RBI doubles to Trevor Plouffe and Kurt Suzuki.
The two runs stood on a night when the Red Sox lineup did much worse than Buchholz’ estimation of his own performance.
“I didn’t have much tonight,’’ said Buchholz, who spread out seven hits and struck out four while walking only one in 71⁄3 innings. His record fell to 2-6 even though his ERA has dropped from 6.03 to 4.33 since May 4. “As the game went on, I found a couple of pitches and was able to throw a couple strikes and make some big pitches in some big situations. As far as stuff, I felt that was the worst that I’ve had.”
Buchholz followed up his first inning with two clean innings, followed by a fourth in which he got out of a bases-loaded jam with a well-timed double play. He never was in serious trouble after that. Two nice diving plays by right fielder Rusney Castillo helped his cause.
“For the most part, I’ve had a couple off-speed pitches I can throw for strikes. That was sort of the difference today,” Buchholz said. “I never really got comfortable with any one pitch. I left a lot of fastballs middle and middle up. I was trying to go up to some righties and didn’t quite get it there at any point in the game. I’m pretty fortunate to escape here not giving up a lot more.”
Buchholz did not point a finger at his offense for failing to help him, again.
“That happens,” Buchholz said. “I’ve gotten a lot of wins whenever I’ve given up four, five or six runs. It’s found a way to come back. It’ll turn around.”
Manager John Farrell praised Buchholz for settling down and doing “an outstanding job for us.”
That the lack of offense did not faze him impressed the skipper.
“Well, a pitcher goes out to do what he can control, and that’s to execute,” Farrell said. “That game was moving quick, it had a chance to keep him concentrated in a good rhythm, which he was, but you don’t go out there with the mindset you’re not going to score. You go out and keep the opposition in check and give yourself to get on the board. And he did just that all night.”
© Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.

