Recent
Saved
×
Get news alerts delivered to your inbox. Sign up here!
Cap Times Headlines Sent each morning at 6
Cap Times Opinion Sent each morning at 11
Cap Times Recap "In Case You Missed It" Sent each afternoon at 5
 Madison.com Features Sent each morning at 6
 Madison.com Food & Drink Sent each Thursday morning at 11
 Madison.com Movies Sent each Friday morning at 9
Email:
 
Take a look at the stories from around our area and world that are making news today.
Scott Walker's Wisconsin Still Lags Nation In Job Growth: Scott Bauer and Nicholas Riccardi of the Associated Press report : "Scott Walker has transformed Wisconsin politics, winning three elections in four years and signing laws that weaken unions, crippling a key ally of the Democratic Party. But the likely Republican presidential contender has had less success changing Wisconsin's economy and budget. The state lags in job growth and its budget faces a shortfall. It's a record that complicates Walker's path in early primary states as he sells himself as a reformer." Read more .
Scott Walker's budget cuts $5.7 million from runoff pollution remedies: Lee Bergquist of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports : "As worries grow about water pollution caused by runoff from streets, yards and farm fields, Gov. Scott Walker's next budget calls for nearly 16% in spending cuts in programs that attack the problem. The reductions have gone virtually unnoticed until now, overshadowed by Walker's higher profile environmental initiatives to freeze land purchases and strip the Natural Resources Board of its policy-making power. Runoff is the state's most serious water pollution problem." Read more .
Disabled push back against Walker budget changes: Liz Welter of News-Herald Media reports : "Few people are as well-qualified as 28-year-old Andy Thain of Thorp to dispute and question the impact on long-term managed care of Gov. Scott Walker's proposed $68 billion state budget. Thain is the founder and chairman of a business that provides home assistance to folks with disabilities. He also was born with cerebral palsy and is a long-time consumer of the very services that the business he created provides to about 130 customers." Read more .
Number of lobbyists tied to new arena issue keeps growing: Don Walker of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports : "The list of governmental bodies, schools and associations with a vested interest in the outcome of state legislation tied to the construction of a new downtown Milwaukee arena is growing. Besides the Milwaukee Bucks themselves, which have three lobbyists assigned to the arena in Madison, the city and county of Milwaukee each have registered lobbyists watching the issue." Read more .
UW-Madison professor creates new variable sweet corn variety:  Sandy Cullen of the Associated Press reports : "Back in colonial times, before the advent of hybrid seeds that ensured every ear of corn in a given variety looked exactly alike and could be harvested and husked by machine, people gathered to do the work by hand. They’d have husking bees, divvying up the harvested ears into piles and racing to see who could get through theirs the fastest, sometimes to find a bottle of whiskey buried at the bottom. And - because the varieties of corn were variable - those lucky enough to find the occasional red ear got to kiss the person of their choosing. UW-Madison agronomy professor Bill Tracy recalled that tradition while meeting over beers at the Library Bar with some of the graduate students involved in helping him create a new variety of sweet corn - a non-hybrid with ears that don’t all look the same, as most farmers and gardeners these days have come to expect." Read more .
Copyright 2015 madison.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Get weekly ads via e-mail
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Vote! Today's poll
Loading…
Which team would you like most to win the championship of its respective sport (i.e. Super Bowl, World Series, NCAA title)?
Green Bay Packers
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with host.madison.com account:
Username & Password Required!

