Government, tourist sites affected
ANDREW HARNIK
Credit: AP
A security guard turns away visitors at the Smithsonian’s National Air and Space Museum in Washington, D.C., after power failures Tuesday affected much of the the nation’s capital and its suburbs.
WASHINGTON -- Problems at a Maryland electrical station caused widespread power failures across the nation's capital Tuesday, affecting the White House, the Capitol, museums, train stations and other sites.
Many of the power failures were brief, but some were longer and led to evacuations. Officials said a mechanical failure at a transfer station led to the failures, and terrorism was not suspected. Tens of thousands of customers lost power.
At the White House, the interruption lasted only a few seconds before backup generators kicked on. The complex quickly went back onto regular power. Guests entering the White House were temporarily delayed because Secret Service screening equipment was briefly knocked off-line.
White House spokesman Josh Earnest said he was with President Barack Obama in the Oval Office when the power blip occurred, and they didn't notice anything unusual.
Power also went out at the State Department during the daily press briefing, causing spokesman Marie Harf to finish her comments in the dark, reading from a binder by the light of her iPhone as reporters took notes with lighting from their mobile phones.
Power was restored at the State Department in phases. The State Department said in a statement that it continued carrying out its "essential functions" during the power failure.
Power in the U.S. Capitol building twice shut down briefly and then came back on by way of a generator.
The mechanical failure occurred shortly before 1 p.m. at a transfer station some 35 miles southeast of Washington in Charles County, Md., that is controlled by utilities serving Washington and southern Maryland.
Department of Homeland Security officials in Washington and Maryland said there was an explosion at the station, although the two utilities, Pepco and the Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, could not immediately confirm that there was a blast or fire.
According to Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, a Pepco transmission conductor at a switching station in Charles County broke free from its support and fell to the ground, interrupting supply to four stations. No one was injured, the utilities said.
University of Maryland President Wallace Loh used Twitter to report a campuswide power failure. The campus is in nearby College Park, Md.
"Crews are helping people stuck in elevators and locked buildings," Loh said. "Region-wide power outage."
Georgetown University officials said in emails that power had been restored after being lost in all campus buildings.
Some effects of the power failures were still apparent later Tuesday afternoon. Some traffic lights were out, and the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority said 14 of its 91 public transit stations were affected.
Power to the trains remained on and trains were moving, transit authority spokesman Dan Stessel said, but the affected stations were on emergency power, with dimmer lighting and nonworking elevators and escalators.
Some Smithsonian museums also lost power and were evacuated and closed to the public, including the popular National Air and Space Museum and the National Portrait Gallery, a spokesman said.
Thousands of tourists spilled from the museums onto the National Mall. It's a busy time of year for tourism, as spring brings better weather and the National Cherry Blossom Festival.
Jenni Swan, who was visiting from Savannah, Ga., with her husband and two children, said they were eating in the Air and Space Museum's atrium when security officers said the building was being evacuated.
"Honestly, I think my kids are excited because of all the firetrucks and people leaving the building quickly," she said.
Information for this article was contributed by Ben Nuckols, Jessica Gresko, Brett Zongker, Amanda Lee Myers and Sagar Meghani of The Associated Press and by Nicole Gaouette, Justin Sink, Derek Wallbank, Steve Geimann, Mark Drajem and Mark Chediak of Bloomberg News.
A Section on 04/08/2015
Most Popular
All rights reserved.
This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Northwest Arkansas Newspapers LLC. Please read our Terms of Use or contact us .
Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2015, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.
Continue Uninterrupted Access
We hope you've enjoyed your preview of NWAOnline.com.
You've now read the maximum number of stories available without a subscription.
Subscribe now for complete and uninterrupted access to the best local, state and national news.
Take me back to the homepage.

