Deer hunters in Wisconsin could soon be trailblazers in terms of fashion. Tuesday a bipartisan group of lawmakers in Madison announced a bill aimed at legalizing blaze pink hunting gear. If passed, hunters could add pink to their gun deer hunting wardrobe. The hope that in turn - more of those hunters would end up being women.
MADISON, Wis (WFRV) Deer hunters in Wisconsin could soon be trailblazers in terms of fashion. Tuesday a bipartisan group of lawmakers in Madison announced a bill aimed at legalizing blaze pink hunting gear. If passed, hunters could add pink to their gun deer hunting wardrobe. The hope that in turn - more of those hunters would end up being women.
Wearing fluorescent pink T-shirts, a group of lawmakers in Madison told all who would listen -  that the time has come to "hunt pink" and to persuade more women to take up hunting.
"And it's my hope, that apparel manufacturers will take advantage of this and create programs that will fund some of these nonprofit groups" said Rep. Nick Milroy (D-South Range). "Whole mission is to recruit and retain hunters."
Under current state law, during gun deer hunting season, at least 50 percent of hunters' clothing above the waist must be blaze orange.  But according to hunters like Lydia Pivonka, adding pink is a terrific idea.
"I think it's pretty cool to give women another option to wear a bright  color they enjoy," said Pivonka. "It also makes women feel more included in the hunting  community."
"I think it's great if it gets more women and young girls involved in the  outdoors - I think it's a great idea," said Bill Moe, a deer hunter.
And that is exactly  what these lawmakers hope happens. Given the fact the WI DNR reports over the last three years, only 10 percent of hunters have been women.
Statistics sporting good retailers and these lawmakers want to see increased - to raise hunting participation rates statewide by adding pink.
"Anything that brings new things out - gets more people involved is good  for everybody," said Scott Anderson of Cabela's.
If approved  - it's believed Wisconsin would be the first state in the nation to allow blaze pink in the woods - during gun deer season.
Copyright 2015 Nexstar Broadcasting, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Facebook Activity

