Search
Search
Posted
After answering questions about media, messaging and what he thought about diversity in tech at the Code conference in Southern California today (spoiler alert: he didn’t reveal much ), Snapchat* CEO Evan Spiegel was asked whether, in all its efforts , Snapchat had plans for an upcoming Apple Watch app.
He said no. “We ended up waiting to do Snapchat on the watch. Why would you look at a small picture [on your wrist] when you can look at a large one on your phone?” he asked. Spiegel revealed that instead of expanding to other platforms, Snapchat will focus on its three-pronged business strategy for now.  He categorized those prongs as: 1) Camera and photo editing tools 2) Communications (messaging) and 3) Content.
“What’s the next platform,” Walt Mossberg asked him, if not the Apple Watch, “Or is it just the phone?”
Spiegel did not confirm either way, but explained that whatever it is, “it needs to be a unique experience.” “It’s wild to me that the phone rings,” he said segueing, “It’s kind of annoying.” When Mossberg asked what would the phone do instead of ring, “We haven’t totally sorted that out yet …”
Spiegel, who is in the middle of a  press spurt , also revealed that the company was approaching 100 million daily active users in “developed” markets, and that 65% of those users were creating content, snaps, daily. Facebook, for comparison, has 936 million daily active users, and has said that 85% of its users use it monthly to create content.
Facebook itself doesn’t have an Apple Watch app, but Instagram, which it owns, does.
Snapchat, which now has 330 employees, has risen meteorically since we first covered it and has robustly bolstered it product offerings in the past 18 months: Launching stories, chat, live video and discovery.
Its recent funding rounds put its valuation at $20B  and its attractiveness has largely been due to the demographic that it attracts (young, mobile) and the robust engagement rates that it’s seeing on its content and associated advertising.
As part of the “Content” component, Snapchat recently rolled out Discover — a section of the app dedicated to expiring stories from partners like National Geographic and Cosmo. Reports from those partners are mixed, but some, like Cosmo, are still reporting millions of views a day on their stories.
Snapchat revealed  recently that its users are 9 times more likely to watch  its large video ads because they don’t have to rotate their phones. But some advertisers have expressed reluctance to pay for Snapchat ads that don’t record or transmit the basic kinds of targeting and measurement metrics that are accepted as standard in the industry. Still, the service has remarkable draw in the demo that is most sought after with advertisers: Youth.
“Making a great product is being in touch with how you feel about things,” Spiegel mused onstage about appealing to that demo. And right now he’s feeling not so hot about the Apple Watch, apparently.
* My significant other works at General Catalyst , which is an investor in Snapchat.
TC Week-in-Review Most popular stories, delivered Sundays
CrunchBase Daily Latest startup fundings, delivered daily
Enter Address
Subscribe to <span class="no-mobile">Subscribe to </span>TechCrunch Daily
Enter Email Address
Subscribe


Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Snapchat's Spiegel: 'I'm not a great manager. I try to be a great leader.'
Snapchat's Evan Spiegel opens up: "We don't necessarily want to be first. Want to be the first to get it right."
Post to Facebook
Snapchat's Spiegel: 'I'm not a great manager. I try to be a great leader.' Snapchat's Evan Spiegel opens up: "We don't necessarily want to be first. Want to be the first to get it right." Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HJKr7A
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Snapchat's Spiegel: 'I'm not a great manager. I try to be a great leader.'
Edward C. Baig , USA TODAY 9:22 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
Snapchat CEO and co-founder Evan Spiegel in front of Snapchat's Venice, CA headquarters.
(Photo: Jefferson Graham, USA TODAY)
RANCHO PALOS VERDES, Calif. — Snapchat's 24-year old CEO, Evan Spiegel, offered this recently on why he didn't sell to Facebook.
"When we decided not to sell our business, people called us a lot of things besides crazy," he said. "Things like arrogant and entitled. The same words that I've heard used to describe our generation time and time again -- the Millennial generation, the Me generation. Well it's true. We do have a sense of entitlement, a sense of ownership. After all, this is the world we were born into and we are responsible for it."
Such remarks play into Spiegel's frat boy image.
But Spiegel projected a serious image as the opening night speaker at the Code Conference here, "I'm not a great manager. I try to be a great leader," he conceded.
Interviewed by Re/Code's Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher, Spiegel said that "obviously content is really important to our business," he said.
Snapchat has been trying to discover what it means to build a platform for journalists.
"We don't necessarily want to be the first," Spiegel said. "We want to be the first to get it right."
Snapchat wants to become publisher friendly, but Spiegel concedes that, "We probably don't come close to any of our partners because we're not that good, yet."
Of course, Snapchat originally launched its young audience with a photo and video messaging app built around the fact that those messages disappeared within 10 seconds. Snapchat is now used by nearly 100 million people in developing markets. People send 700 million photos daily.
As for the company's growth from here, he said, "We're much more interested in increasing engagement rather than getting big...making sure people who are on our service just love it." That he says is where Snapchat's "maniacal focus" is, he said.
Asked for ways to improve the Snapchat service, Spiegel said he'd like users not have to hold their finger down on the screen while shooting video. He did not offer a timeframe on when that might happen.
Among other topics, Spieget said he's not rushing into bringing out a competitive offering to the live streaming Meerkat and Periscope apps. We're sitting back and learning and have nothing going on right now along those lines, he said.
Other topics:
-- Regarding speculation that there might be a tech bubble. "There will be a correction. It's a question of when."
-- On diversity. "I think technology is a problem for everyone," not just in tech.
-- On a Snapchat IPO. "We have a plan to do that" but offered no further detail.
-- On what Snapchat is now. Though he kept stressing three lines of focus, "camera, communications and content," Spiegel ultimately said, "Call us entertainment."
-- On his managerial style. "My team would say I'm very decisive, but I change my mind a lot."
-- On adding advertising to messaging on Snapchat. "We don't want to be put ads in communication. It's sort of rude." He adds that "there's a massive opportunity around our content products."
TOP VIDEOS
May 26, 2015

