Search
Search
Posted
After answering questions about media, messaging and what he thought about diversity in tech at the Code conference in Southern California today (spoiler alert: he didn’t reveal much ), Snapchat* CEO Evan Spiegel was asked whether, in all its efforts , Snapchat had plans for an upcoming Apple Watch app.
He said no. “We ended up waiting to do Snapchat on the watch. Why would you look at a small picture [on your wrist] when you can look at a large one on your phone?” he asked. Spiegel revealed that instead of expanding to other platforms, Snapchat will focus on its three-pronged business strategy for now.  He categorized those prongs as: 1) Camera and photo editing tools 2) Communications (messaging) and 3) Content.
“What’s the next platform,” Walt Mossberg asked him, if not the Apple Watch, “Or is it just the phone?”
Spiegel did not confirm either way, but explained that whatever it is, “it needs to be a unique experience.” “It’s wild to me that the phone rings,” he said segueing, “It’s kind of annoying.” When Mossberg asked what would the phone do instead of ring, “We haven’t totally sorted that out yet …”
Spiegel, who is in the middle of a  press spurt , also revealed that the company was approaching 100 million daily active users in “developed” markets, and that 65% of those users were creating content, snaps, daily. Facebook, for comparison, has 936 million daily active users, and has said that 85% of its users use it monthly to create content.
Facebook itself doesn’t have an Apple Watch app, but Instagram, which it owns, does.
Snapchat, which now has 330 employees, has risen meteorically since we first covered it and has robustly bolstered it product offerings in the past 18 months: Launching stories, chat, live video and discovery.
Its recent funding rounds put its valuation at $20B  and its attractiveness has largely been due to the demographic that it attracts (young, mobile) and the robust engagement rates that it’s seeing on its content and associated advertising.
As part of the “Content” component, Snapchat recently rolled out Discover — a section of the app dedicated to expiring stories from partners like National Geographic and Cosmo. Reports from those partners are mixed, but some, like Cosmo, are still reporting millions of views a day on their stories.
Snapchat revealed  recently that its users are 9 times more likely to watch  its large video ads because they don’t have to rotate their phones. But some advertisers have expressed reluctance to pay for Snapchat ads that don’t record or transmit the basic kinds of targeting and measurement metrics that are accepted as standard in the industry. Still, the service has remarkable draw in the demo that is most sought after with advertisers: Youth.
“Making a great product is being in touch with how you feel about things,” Spiegel mused onstage about appealing to that demo. And right now he’s feeling not so hot about the Apple Watch, apparently.
* My significant other works at General Catalyst , which is an investor in Snapchat.
TC Week-in-Review Most popular stories, delivered Sundays
CrunchBase Daily Latest startup fundings, delivered daily
Enter Address
Subscribe to <span class="no-mobile">Subscribe to </span>TechCrunch Daily
Enter Email Address
Subscribe


RANCHOS PALOS VERDES, Calif.
RANCHOS PALOS VERDES, Calif. May 26 Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel said on Tuesday the company plans to have an initial public offering but did not specify when that would happen.
"We have to IPO," Spiegel said during a talk at a technology conference hosted in Ranchos Palos Verdes, Calif., by technology online-only publication Re/code.
"It's just another dot on the list of things to do," Spiegel added.
In 2013, Snapchat turned down a $3 billion offer from Facebook to acquire the company. Alibaba poured $200 million into the ephemeral photo- and video-sharing app in March at a valuation of $15 billion.    (Reporting By Yasmeen Abutaleb; Editing by Ken Wills )
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

