Updated:                                 May 21
Mental illness affects one in five Americans, according to the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Unfortunately, treatment is often delayed or undiagnosed, and sadly at least 41,149 people committed suicide in 2013 due to mental illness.
Mental disorders often start in adolescence or early adulthood, and can continue throughout a person’s lifetime. The good news is that mental illness is treatable and recovery is possible. Treatment and support include medications, counseling, lifestyle changes, peer support groups and rehabilitation programs.
The Harford County Department of Community Services, Harford County Health Department and the nonprofit Office on Mental Health of Harford County are striving to develop a well-rounded support system for people with mental illness. This partnership works with citizens and treatment providers to raise awareness about mental health, to reduce the stigma of mental illness and to improve access to mental health treatment in the county. One key resource for residents is the Harford County Mobile Crisis Team, which provides crisis intervention and emergency mental health care. The crisis team is available seven days per week, 8 a.m. to midnight at 410-638-5248.
The Harford County Human Relations Commission is a group of volunteer citizens who are appointed by the county executive and approved by the Harford County Council, and dedicated to “alleviating social problems and promoting equality, understanding, and harmonious relations between the citizens of the county.”
To learn more about the commission, visit harfordcountymd.gov/services/humanrelations .
Posted in Harford on Monday, May 25, 2015 6:20 am.
Rules of Conduct
1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.
3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.
4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.
Welcome to the discussion.
Screen Name or Email
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
Poll
Video
facebook
google
yahoo
aol

