The State Column, Anna Jiang | April 06, 2015
Kansas Governor Sam Brownback is expected to sign off on House Bill 2258 which will restrict welfare recipients from using their benefits at liquor stores, nail shops, hair salons, tattoo parlors, and on board cruise ships.
Kansas legislatures have their sights set on the state’s welfare recipients. The state plans to add another stipulation that would monitor how benefits are spent in addition to the existing stipulations that define candidates who are qualified to receive welfare benefits.
According to the associated press , the new bill, known as House Bill 2258, will affect the recipients of Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) benefits. The benefit, generally considered a temporary form of income for impoverished families and commonly referred to as “welfare”, supplies qualified recipients with supplemental income for a maximum of 24 months.
According to the Kansas “Successful Families Program” outline, a family of four could receive up to approximately $497 each month with an additional $61 for each additional person. Now, however, state officials are proposing implementing several new restrictions as to who can receive the supplemental income and how.
The proposed bill will restrict welfare recipients from obtaining more than $25 in cash each day in order to help prohibit recipients from using their benefits for certain expenditures such as at liquor stores, nail shops, hair salons, tattoo parlors, and on board cruise ships.
“We’re trying to make sure those benefits are used the way they were intended,” state Representative Michael O’Donnell (R) explained. “This is about prosperity. This is about having a great life.”
The number of TANF recipients declined drastically from 38,900 in 2011 to 17,600 in 2014 during Kansas Governor Sam Brownback’s first term. The state expects the number of recipients to continue to decline.
“We pat ourselves on the back that our TANF rolls have gone down exponentially and we say it’s because all those people are now working. We don’t know that and I’m guessing its not the truth,” said Senator Laura Kelly, D-Topeka. “Now what we want to do is take the same mean-spirited policies that we’ve implemented over the years and we want to codify them,” she said. “I can only assume that the motive behind this is truly malice of intent.”
 
Anna Jiang - Anna Jiang is currently a junior at Duke University double majoring in biology and statistics. Originally from California, Anna enjoys staying up to date on the latest news and events in the nation.
Comments

