May 26, 2015
Updated  11:09 p.m.
LOS ANGELES – That guy certainly looked familiar.
Amid all the speculation and overwrought, numbers-crunching analysis about what’s wrong with Clayton Kershaw, everything looked very right with him Tuesday night. Kershaw turned in his best start of the season in an 8-0 victory over the Atlanta Braves.
Kershaw held the Braves hitless through four innings and scoreless through seven before handing the ball over to the bullpen. It was the first time in 10 starts this season Kershaw turned in a scoreless performance. He had seven last season.
“I guess I’m indifferent. I don’t really care, I guess,” Kershaw said when asked how he had taken the constant comparisons between this year’s results (he is now 3-3 with a 3.86 ERA) and his MVP-Cy Young run last summer. “I’m just trying to win, trying to pitch. People are going to have opinions and that’s great. I guess people have high expectations of me too, which is great. But at the end of the day, I only care about what my teammates and coaches think. If they see something they want to tell me, great. If anybody else does, I don’t really care.
“There’s stuff wrong. You’re giving up runs. I think it’s not a ‘What’s wrong?’ I think it’s just minor tweaks here and there.”
There was little wrong Tuesday. He retired the first 12 batters in order, allowed just four hits, struck out 10 and didn’t walk a batter. It is the ninth time in his career he has paired a double-digit strikeout game with a no-walk outing. He did it three times last season but this was the first this season.
“He wasn’t too bad tonight,” Dodgers manager Don Mattingly deadpanned. “It’s been a lot of the same. Tonight he got the zeroes.
“His stuff has been similar all along. I feel I like I’ve been defending him but he doesn’t need defending. He’s been throwing the ball well. Tonight, he got better results as far as runs on the board.”
The Braves did threaten twice against Kershaw. They put runners at first and second with one out in the fifth after Nick Markakis broke up Kershaw’s no-hit bid with a leadoff single. But Kershaw got Pedro Ciriaco to ground out on a nice play by second baseman Howie Kendrick and struck out Christian Bethancourt, overpowering him with a 94-mph fastball.
In the seventh, Markakis led off with a double and moved to third on a wild pitch to the next batter. But Kershaw stranded him there by striking out Jonny Gomes, overmatching Andrelton Simmons for another strikeout and getting Ciriaco to ground out again.
That capped Kershaw’s most complete game of the season – stuff matching results – if not a complete game.
“Yeah, I guess so,” Kershaw agreed. “That fifth inning could have gotten away from me. Made some mistakes there. Howie made a great play defensively. … Being able to get out of that unscathed was huge for me.”
By then, the Dodgers offense had continued its revival and made Kershaw comfortable with a six-run fourth inning against Braves starter Julio Teheran. The six-run burst is the biggest inning of the season for the Dodgers, who have now scored 14 runs in their past two games after scoring a total of nine in their previous eight games.
Kendrick and Justin Turner had RBI singles in the big inning. Andre Ethier drove in two with a double and A.J. Ellis one with another double. Kershaw even joined in the effort, dropping a two-out RBI single into center field to cap the six-run inning.
An inning later, Adrian Gonzalez added a two-run home run. The homer pushed Gonzalez past the 1,000-RBI mark for his career. He is one of only 12 active players with 1,000 career RBI.
“Adrian’s pretty amazing really,” said Mattingly who finished his 14-year career with 1,099 RBI. “Day in, day out. Year in, year out. This guy just keeps going. I think he’s that guy for a manager that makes everything pretty easy.
“You know he’s going to be ready to play. He’s always prepared. He’s really good for other guys as far as understanding what to do against certain pitchers. You know he’s going to have a gameplan every night for every guy. He never walks up there without one.”
Gonzalez acknowledged 1,500 RBI as somewhat of a target for him but admitted he took pride in the consistent production this milestone represents.
“It’s a little bit of everything,” he said. “You definitely have to stay healthy if you’re going to get there. And you have to stay productive to stay on the field and be in a starting lineup for this is my 10th season now.”
Contact the writer: bplunkett@ocregister.com
Related Links
Most popular
Related Links
The Dodgers' Clayton Kershaw throws to the plate during the third inning of Tuesday night's game against the Braves at Dodger Stadium. HARRY HOW, GETTY IMAGES
The Dodgers' Clayton Kershaw throws to the plate during the third inning of Tuesday night's game against the Braves at Dodger Stadium. HARRY HOW, GETTY IMAGES
The Dodgers' Adrian Gonzalez, left, watches his two-run home run off Atlanta Braves starting pitcher Julio Teheran, right, during the fifth inning Tuesday night at Dodger Stadium. Gonzalez became the 12th active player to reach 1,000 career RBI with the homer. MARK J. TERRILL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
The Dodgers' Adrian Gonzalez acknowledges fans after hitting a two-run home run during the fifth inning. Gonzalez became the 12th active player to reach 1,000 career RBI with the homer. MARK J. TERRILL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Dodgers starting pitcher Clayton Kershaw falls as he throws out Atlanta's Pedro Ciriaco at first base during the third inning of Tuesday night's game against Atlanta at Dodger Stadium. MARK J. TERRILL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Dodgers starting pitcher Clayton Kershaw smiles after he threw out Atlanta's Pedro Ciriaco at first base while falling to the ground during the third inning of Tuesday night's game against Atlanta at Dodger Stadium. HARRY HOW, GETTY IMAGES
The Dodgers' Alex Guerrero shows his frustration after he was picked off second base by Atlanta's Andrelton Simmons during the third inning of Tuesday night's game at Dodger Stadium. HARRY HOW, GETTY IMAGES
The Dodgers' Justin Turner, right, smiles as he greets Jimmy Rollins as he returns to the dugout after scoring the first run of the game in the fourth inning. HARRY HOW, GETTY IMAGES
The Dodgers' Howie Kendrick scores on a Justin Turner single to give his team a 2-0 lead over the Atlanta Braves during the fourth inning. HARRY HOW, GETTY IMAGES
The Dodgers' Andre Ethier doubles to drive in two runs during the team's six-run fourth inning. HARRY HOW, GETTY IMAGES
The Dodgers' Adrian Gonzalez, left, and Justin Turner, center, point toward second base as Alex Guerrero watches after Andre Ethier doubled them in during the team's six-run fourth inning Tuesday night. MARK J. TERRILL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
The Dodgers' Alex Guerrero slides into home before being tagged out by Atlanta Braves catcher Christian Bethancourt as he tried to score on a hit by A.J. Ellis during the fourth inning. MARK J. TERRILL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
The Dodgers' Alex Guerrero, right, is tagged out by Braves catcher Christian Bethancourt as he tries to score on a hit by A.J. Ellis during the fourth inning. MARK J. TERRILL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Dodgers pitcher Clayton Kershaw throws to the plate during the first inning of Tuesday night's game against Atlanta at Dodger Stadium. HARRY HOW, GETTY IMAGES
Dodgers starting pitcher Clayton Kershaw throws to the plate during the second inning of Tuesday night's game against Atlanta at Dodger Stadium. MARK J. TERRILL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Dodgers pitcher Clayton Kershaw throws to the plate during the first inning of Tuesday night's game against Atlanta at Dodger Stadium. HARRY HOW, GETTY IMAGES
Dodgers first baseman Adrian Gonzalez tosses the ball to relief pitcher J.P. Howell to get Atlanta's Eric Stults at first during the eighth inning. MARK J. TERRILL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Atlanta Braves starting pitcher Julio Teheran throws to the plate during the first inning of Tuesday night's game against the Dodgers at Dodger Stadium. MARK J. TERRILL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Atlanta first baseman Freddie Freeman, a former El Modena High standout, stretches in an attempt to force out the Dodgers' Jimmy Rollins at first base during the first inning of Tuesday night's game at Dodger Stadium. MARK J. TERRILL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
1 of
User Agreement
Comments are encouraged, but you must follow our User Agreement
Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial     slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about     tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to     allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to     republish your name and comment in additional Register publications     without any notification or payment.
Business Directory

