Friendship under fire; a legal fight to define Menendez-Melgen relationship
April 2, 2015, 12:27 PM    Last updated: Friday, April 3, 2015, 12:23 AM
By SHAWN BOBURG and MELISSA HAYES
staff writers | 
The Record
U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez arriving Thursday at federal court in Newark.
Sen. Bob Menendez and a wealthy Florida eye doctor, accused of working together in an extensive bribery scheme, entered a federal courtroom separately on Thursday afternoon. Flanked by their attorneys, they sat at different tables but exchanged warm smiles and nods during a hearing in which neither man spoke.
Leaving the federal courthouse in Newark, after each pleaded not guilty to more than a dozen charges, Dr. Salomon Melgen hurried past reporters and into his waiting Chevrolet Suburban, while Menendez continued his defiance with a fiery statement.
Salomon Melgen leaves Federal Court Thursday.
The limited interplay between the two men only hinted at what will be a central question in the major political corruption case: Were Melgen’s lavish gifts and Menendez’s advocacy of Melgen’s business interests the byproducts of a close personal friendship or the fruits of a relationship built on influence peddling?
The case is likely to define the line between bribery and friendship, requiring prosecutors and defense attorneys to reconstruct duel­ing narratives about what sustained the longtime relationship between the powerful senator and one of his most prolific donors.
But on Thursday, the proceedings started with a routine hearing, even though it involved a sitting U.S. senator.
Menendez was ordered to surrender his personal passport, but was released without any further restrictions. Melgen posted $1.5 million bail, $150,000 of which was to be paid in cash and the rest by property used as collateral. The 60-year-old eye doctor, who wore a dark suit with a light blue tie, was ordered to surrender his two passports, to remove a gun collection from his Florida home and submit to drug testing and potentially to treatment.
A private jet owned by Melgen, like those used to provide free flights to Menendez 20 times since 2006, was ordered grounded. A Dominican national, Melgen traveled to the Caribbean country biweekly, federal Judge William H. Walls said, but now must remain within the continental United States. Melgen’s attorney, Maria Dominguez, said her client had voluntarily given up his license to operate the jet.
Early trial unlikely
The two men sat about 5 yards apart at tables perpendicular to each other. Before the hearing, Menendez, wearing a blue striped suit with a U.S. Senate pin on his left lapel, looked in Melgen’s direction twice and smiled at him. Melgen, who held his hands clasped on the table, nodded in acknowledgment. Later, each stood next to his attorney at the lectern as the lawyers individually entered not-guilty pleas on behalf of their clients.
Prosecutors allege Melgen provided bribes in the form of free flights on his private jet, vacations in a Paris hotel suite and a Caribbean villa, and nearly $800,000 in campaign contributions. In exchange, they allege Menendez promoted Melgen’s business and personal interests. New Jersey’s senior senator tried to help Melgen keep $9 million that Medicare said he overbilled the government; pressed the State Department to provide visas so Melgen’s girlfriends from Brazil, the Dominican Republic and Ukraine could study in or visit Florida; and pushed for federal pressure to sway the Dominican government over a port security contract Melgen owned.
The sole dispute between prosecutors and defense attorneys during the hearing focused on whether Menendez should be required to give up his personal passport.
Menendez’s attorney, Abbe Lowell, said it made little sense for the government to request the senator’s personal passport be surrendered while agreeing to allow him to keep his foreign travel credentials for government-related business.
“If this were any other defendant, he’d be required to give up his personal passport,” U.S. prosecutor Peter Koski said. “We’re asking that he be treated like any other defendant.”
“He’s not just any other defendant,” Lowell shot back.
The judge agreed with prosecutors.
Prosecutors had originally sought $2 million bail for Melgen but agreed to the lower amount during discussions over the past few days, Melgen’s attorney, Maria Dominguez, said. She said Melgen also agreed to drug testing, noting that he has attention deficit disorder and is on prescribed sleep medication. Melgen will temporarily live in an apartment in West Palm Beach until a gun collection in his home is removed in the next two weeks; he also is required to give up his firearms licenses.
The next court date, a status conference, is scheduled for April 22.
Other cases cited
Menendez and his attorney told reporters after the hearing that the Department of Justice was wrong to bring charges.
“For nearly three years, the Justice Department has pursued allegations based on smears launched by political opponents trying to silence me,” Menendez said. “Now they have laid out their case. We will finally have an opportunity to respond on the record, in court, with the facts.”
His attorney, Lowell, cited several other cases the Justice Department has lost, including its case against former Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens. Stevens, a Republican, was charged with failing to report gifts — something the government also is alleging Menendez has done. Stevens was convicted, but that verdict and the indictment were overturned after a whistle-blower said the government had withheld evidence.
“Prosecutors at the Justice Department often get it wrong,” Lowell said. “These charges are the latest mistakes.”
He said the investigation was “fueled by heavy-handed actions of agents pressuring witnesses and then it had more than its fair share of improper leaks to the press.”
Lowell said he had asked the Justice Department to investigate the leaks.
Prosecutors had given the grand jury that handed up the indictment one description of the relationship between the senator and Melgen, Lowell said. But that version didn’t include Menendez’s account, he said.
“Now they have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a 20-year friendship relationship between Dr. Melgen and Senator Menendez was something else,” he said.
Email: boburg@northjersey.com and hayes@northjersey.com 
Age: 61
Hometown: Paramus
Education: St. Peter’s College, bachelor’s degree, 1976; Rutgers University School of Law, 1979.
Public Service: U.S. Senate, 2006 to present, former chairman of Foreign Relations Committee; U.S House of Representatives, 1992-2006; Union City mayor, 1986-1992; served in New Jersey Assembly, Senate; Union City Board of Education, 1978.
Family: Divorced, two children
Education: graduate National University of Pedro Henriquez Urena, Dominican Republic
Occupation: Ophthalmology, owns Vitreo-Retinal Consultants in Florida
Family: Married, two children
The charges
Sen. Bob Menendez and Salomon Melgen were each charged with the following:
One count of conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services fraud for allegedly carrying out a scheme to use Menendez’s position as a senator to enrich themselves through bribery.
One count of violating the Travel Act, for allegedly engaging in interstate travel and foreign commerce with the intent to commit bribery.
Eight counts of bribery. Three relate to free round-trip flights Menendez accepted, allegedly in exchange for official action on Melgen’s behalf. Two stem from donations Melgen made to a legal defense fund for Menendez, allegedly in exchange for Menendez’s influence, as the need arose. Three others involve hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign donations by Melgen to political committees backing Menendez, allegedly in exchange for helping Melgen in disputes with the U.S. government over millions of dollars in Medicare overbillings and with the Dominican government over a lucrative contract for a Melgen-owned port security company.
Three counts of honest services fraud. Two involve wire fraud for causing pilots on Melgen’s private jet to communicate to air traffic controllers across state lines on flights alleged to be bribes. And one alleges mail fraud when Melgen mailed a campaign donation described as a bribe.
Menendez was charged with one additional count of making false statements, for allegedly concealing the gifts from Melgen by purposely failing to list them on financial disclosure forms that senators are required to file annually.
Melgen's money
A look at ways Salomon Melgen, his relatives and his company were able to help Bob Menendez over the years.
Amount
Main campaign accounts
Coordinated get-out-the-vote effort with Menendez on ballot
$60,400
Menendez chairman
Created by Menendez to oppose recall effort
$700,000
$104,000
Coordinated get-out-the-vote effort with Menendez on ballot
$1,000,600
TOTAL
Sources: Center for Responsive Politics, records filed with Federal Election Commission, NJ Election Law Enforcement Commission and Internal Revenue Service
The flights
Sen. Bob Menendez has disclosed taking several trips on Salomon Melgen's private plane. Here are details of those trips, as disclosed by Menendez, and how they were paid for:
May 14-16, 2010: Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, when Menendez was chairman, paid $5,400 to fly him from Atlanta, to the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.
Aug. 6-9 and Sept. 3-6, 2010: Menendez flew from southern Florida to the Dominican Republic and flew a round trip from Teterboro to the Dominican Republic, and in January 2013 reimbursed Melgen $58,500 for the trips.
Jan. 30, 2011: Menendez flew to New Jersey from campaign meetings and fundraisers in Miami, and reimbursed Melgen $11,250 in January 2014.
According to authorities, however, Menendez took many more flights paid for by Melgen. The indictment included the 2010 trips Menendez reimbursed, but noted that they were not paid for at the time of the flight. The full listing of flights included in the indictment:
Aug. 18, 2006: Menendez and an unidentified guest traveled on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach, Fla., to the Dominican Republic for a visit to Melgen's villa in Casa de Campo.
Aug. 24, 2006: Menendez and his guest flew from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
April 4, 2007: Menendez flew on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach to the Dominican Republic, again for a visit to the villa.
April 8, 2007: Melgen "furnished" a free flight from the Dominican Republic to Fort Lauderdale on a private jet owned by an associate of his.
Aug. 30, 2008: Melgen sent his private jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro to pick up Menendez and a guest - a different guest than the one in 2006 - to fly them for vacation at the Casa de Campo villa. They stayed in West Palm Beach overnight before completing the trip the next day.
Sept. 4, 2008: Menendez and his guest flew on Melgen's private jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
May 28, 2010: A third guest of Menendez's flew on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach to the Dominican Republic in order to meet Menendez for vacation at the villa.
June 1, 2010: The guest flew on Melgen's plane from the Dominican Republic to West Palm Beach after the vacation.
Aug. 6, 2010: Melgen sent his private jet from West Palm Beach to the Washington metropolitan area to pick up Mendendez. The senator flew to the Dominican Republic for vacation at the villa, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Aug. 9, 2010: Menendez flew Melgen's jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Sept. 3, 2010: Menendez and a guest - the third guest, from May - flew on Melgen's private jet from Teterboro to the Dominican Republic, with a stop in West Palm Beach, for a vacation that included Punta Cana.
Sept. 6, 2010: Menendez and his guest flew on Melgen's jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Oct. 8, 2010: Melgen, through an unidentified individual, bought Menendez a first-class flight, at a cost of $890, from Newark to West Palm Beach.
 
Tags:


Menendez case promises to be high-stakes battle for senator, Justice Department
April 2, 2015, 11:52 PM    Last updated: Thursday, April 2, 2015, 11:59 PM
By HERB JACKSON and MARY JO LAYTON
staff writers | 
The Record
Abbe Lowell, left, attorney for Sen. Bob Menendez, speaking to the media Thursday outside federal court in Newark. Lowell has defended former New Jersey Sen. Robert Torricelli and former Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina.
It’s a fight to the finish, and in the end, either Sen. Bob Menendez’s career will be over or federal prosecutors will have sustained another black eye.
Menendez made his first appearance in court Thursday to plead not guilty, while his lawyers plotted strategy, his staff sought to show him fully engaged in his Senate duties and his team of advisers launched a social-media campaign to marshal support and raise money.
And the prosecution’s decision to charge Menendez with bribery, instead of an easier-to-prove charge of accepting gratuities, triggered debate about the government’s high-stakes gamble after a series of missteps in previous corruption cases.
“It’s one of the most serious accusations the government can make,” said Robert Mintz, a former federal prosecutor who heads white-collar criminal defense for McCarter & English, a leading New Jersey firm.
Outside a Newark courtroom Thursday, Menendez again took no questions but professed his innocence to 14 counts of bribery and other charges stemming from his relationship with a wealthy Florida physician, donor and friend. Menendez is accused of accepting nearly $1 million in gifts — flights on a private jet, vacations in Paris and the Caribbean — and campaign contributions from Salomon Melgen in exchange for promoting the physician’s business and personal interests.
On his first full day as an accused criminal, Menendez appeared resolute in fighting for his political life, while also appealing for public support and seeking to demonstrate that he can continue to do his job.
He issued a statement about the negotiations over Iran’s nuclear program and emailed a YouTube video to supporters in which he sought to make prosecutors look like the wrongdoers.
“It saddens me that our system of justice has already failed at its most basic level by leaking information and peddling rumors,” Menendez said. “But that failure affords me the opportunity to finally show beyond a doubt that the charges leveled today and through a nearly three-year campaign of innuendo and smears are completely false.”
His team launched a website, istandwithbob.com, that features statements of support from prominent Democrats, a business owner and a Superstorm Sandy victim, along with a link to contribute.
His staff put out the word that business went on as usual. At least 20 invitations for meetings and appearances arrived Thursday, they said, including a meeting with a Ukrainian minister and a request from NJ Transit to join in an event in Paterson next week for Stand Up for Transportation Day.
He renewed his call for action on a bill he’s co-sponsoring that would let senators have a say on the Iranian nuclear agreement announced in Switzerland on Thursday. His office also was fielding media requests to talk about the issue.
Menendez remains the top-ranking Democrat on a subcommittee that regulates housing and mass transit. And while he stepped down Wednesday from a similar position on the full Foreign Relations Committee, he is still one of the Senate’s experts on Iran.
On the legal front, Menendez will be relying on Abbe D. Lowell, 62, a onetime ethics counsel in the House who successfully defended former presidential candidate John Edwards and a litany of high-profile politicians accused of corruption. Former Sen. Robert Torricelli from New Jersey, who also faced a corruption investigation but was not charged, is another past client.
The lead prosecutor is Peter Koski, a 36-year-old deputy chief of the Justice Department’s public integrity section described as ambitious and an up-and-coming trial expert.
It’s not the first time Lowell and Koski have faced off over a legislator accused of corruption. Hector Martinez Maldonado, a senator from Puerto Rico, was accused of bribery for accepting a trip to a Las Vegas boxing match in 2005 and voting for legislation beneficial to the businessman who paid for it.
With Lowell’s help, Martinez was acquitted in 2012 of three of the four counts against him. And while he was sentenced to 48 months in prison on the fourth count, that conviction was overturned on appeal.
But before any trial starts in U.S. District Court in Newark, veteran defense attorneys said, Lowell and his team will dissect the indictment and file motions to dismiss all or parts of the government’s case.
Likely areas to be challenged include whether any of the actions Menendez is accused of taking in exchange for bribes — such as seeking leniency for Melgen for overbilling Medicare by $9 million, endorsing visas so Melgen’s girlfriends in three countries could come to Florida and trying to get the United States to pressure the Dominican Republic over a security contract Melgen owned there — are protected by the “speech or debate” clause of the Constitution.
The clause says members of Congress cannot be questioned by the executive branch for legislative acts. Menendez’s legal team, which also includes Jenny Kramer, a former prosecutor who served in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Newark when Governor Christie ran it, has already tried to use the clause to restrict the government’s investigation.
The defense also might try to persuade the court to throw out the government’s allegation that Melgen bribed Menendez with $600,000 in contributions to a “super” political action committee, which by law operates independently from candidates.
Defense attorneys also could file a motion for dismissal on the grounds that even if all facts alleged are true, there’s still no crime committed, said Michael Koenig, a former trial attorney in the fraud section of the Justice Department. Any hint of prosecutorial misconduct during grand jury proceedings could also be grounds to request a dismissal, Koenig said.
“The Department of Justice took a huge black eye after the Ted Stevens case,” he said referring to the late Alaska senator whose corruption conviction was overturned in 2009 due to prosecutorial misconduct. “They certainly have articulated a desire to learn from those lessons so that the misconduct in that case was not repeated,” Koenig said. “Time will tell.”
The year after the conviction was tossed, Koski was sent to Alaska to help deal with state corruption cases left in disarray by the Stevens case, according to The New York Times. Koski was later sent to Louisiana after federal prosecutors there were removed from a case because of questionable behavior. The Stevens debacle also led the Obama administration to overhaul the public integrity section of the Justice Department.
Solomon L. Wisenberg, a Washington, D.C.-based white-collar defense attorney who served as a federal prosecutor and deputy to independent counsel Kenneth Starr, said it’s unlikely any charges would be dropped before a trial begins.
“To get charges thrown out, unless there’s shocking government misconduct, is very hard to do,” Wisenberg said.
Among the 14 counts against Menendez are eight counts of bribery. “The Department of Justice raised the stakes by calling it bribery,” Wisenberg said, because the charge requires a linkage between benefits Menendez received and actions he took on behalf of Melgen.
Tags:

