Friendship under fire; a legal fight to define Menendez-Melgen relationship
April 2, 2015, 12:27 PM    Last updated: Friday, April 3, 2015, 12:23 AM
By SHAWN BOBURG and MELISSA HAYES
staff writers | 
The Record
U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez arriving Thursday at federal court in Newark.
Sen. Bob Menendez and a wealthy Florida eye doctor, accused of working together in an extensive bribery scheme, entered a federal courtroom separately on Thursday afternoon. Flanked by their attorneys, they sat at different tables but exchanged warm smiles and nods during a hearing in which neither man spoke.
Leaving the federal courthouse in Newark, after each pleaded not guilty to more than a dozen charges, Dr. Salomon Melgen hurried past reporters and into his waiting Chevrolet Suburban, while Menendez continued his defiance with a fiery statement.
Salomon Melgen leaves Federal Court Thursday.
The limited interplay between the two men only hinted at what will be a central question in the major political corruption case: Were Melgen’s lavish gifts and Menendez’s advocacy of Melgen’s business interests the byproducts of a close personal friendship or the fruits of a relationship built on influence peddling?
The case is likely to define the line between bribery and friendship, requiring prosecutors and defense attorneys to reconstruct duel­ing narratives about what sustained the longtime relationship between the powerful senator and one of his most prolific donors.
But on Thursday, the proceedings started with a routine hearing, even though it involved a sitting U.S. senator.
Menendez was ordered to surrender his personal passport, but was released without any further restrictions. Melgen posted $1.5 million bail, $150,000 of which was to be paid in cash and the rest by property used as collateral. The 60-year-old eye doctor, who wore a dark suit with a light blue tie, was ordered to surrender his two passports, to remove a gun collection from his Florida home and submit to drug testing and potentially to treatment.
A private jet owned by Melgen, like those used to provide free flights to Menendez 20 times since 2006, was ordered grounded. A Dominican national, Melgen traveled to the Caribbean country biweekly, federal Judge William H. Walls said, but now must remain within the continental United States. Melgen’s attorney, Maria Dominguez, said her client had voluntarily given up his license to operate the jet.
Early trial unlikely
The two men sat about 5 yards apart at tables perpendicular to each other. Before the hearing, Menendez, wearing a blue striped suit with a U.S. Senate pin on his left lapel, looked in Melgen’s direction twice and smiled at him. Melgen, who held his hands clasped on the table, nodded in acknowledgment. Later, each stood next to his attorney at the lectern as the lawyers individually entered not-guilty pleas on behalf of their clients.
Prosecutors allege Melgen provided bribes in the form of free flights on his private jet, vacations in a Paris hotel suite and a Caribbean villa, and nearly $800,000 in campaign contributions. In exchange, they allege Menendez promoted Melgen’s business and personal interests. New Jersey’s senior senator tried to help Melgen keep $9 million that Medicare said he overbilled the government; pressed the State Department to provide visas so Melgen’s girlfriends from Brazil, the Dominican Republic and Ukraine could study in or visit Florida; and pushed for federal pressure to sway the Dominican government over a port security contract Melgen owned.
The sole dispute between prosecutors and defense attorneys during the hearing focused on whether Menendez should be required to give up his personal passport.
Menendez’s attorney, Abbe Lowell, said it made little sense for the government to request the senator’s personal passport be surrendered while agreeing to allow him to keep his foreign travel credentials for government-related business.
“If this were any other defendant, he’d be required to give up his personal passport,” U.S. prosecutor Peter Koski said. “We’re asking that he be treated like any other defendant.”
“He’s not just any other defendant,” Lowell shot back.
The judge agreed with prosecutors.
Prosecutors had originally sought $2 million bail for Melgen but agreed to the lower amount during discussions over the past few days, Melgen’s attorney, Maria Dominguez, said. She said Melgen also agreed to drug testing, noting that he has attention deficit disorder and is on prescribed sleep medication. Melgen will temporarily live in an apartment in West Palm Beach until a gun collection in his home is removed in the next two weeks; he also is required to give up his firearms licenses.
The next court date, a status conference, is scheduled for April 22.
Other cases cited
Menendez and his attorney told reporters after the hearing that the Department of Justice was wrong to bring charges.
“For nearly three years, the Justice Department has pursued allegations based on smears launched by political opponents trying to silence me,” Menendez said. “Now they have laid out their case. We will finally have an opportunity to respond on the record, in court, with the facts.”
His attorney, Lowell, cited several other cases the Justice Department has lost, including its case against former Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens. Stevens, a Republican, was charged with failing to report gifts — something the government also is alleging Menendez has done. Stevens was convicted, but that verdict and the indictment were overturned after a whistle-blower said the government had withheld evidence.
“Prosecutors at the Justice Department often get it wrong,” Lowell said. “These charges are the latest mistakes.”
He said the investigation was “fueled by heavy-handed actions of agents pressuring witnesses and then it had more than its fair share of improper leaks to the press.”
Lowell said he had asked the Justice Department to investigate the leaks.
Prosecutors had given the grand jury that handed up the indictment one description of the relationship between the senator and Melgen, Lowell said. But that version didn’t include Menendez’s account, he said.
“Now they have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a 20-year friendship relationship between Dr. Melgen and Senator Menendez was something else,” he said.
Email: boburg@northjersey.com and hayes@northjersey.com 
Age: 61
Hometown: Paramus
Education: St. Peter’s College, bachelor’s degree, 1976; Rutgers University School of Law, 1979.
Public Service: U.S. Senate, 2006 to present, former chairman of Foreign Relations Committee; U.S House of Representatives, 1992-2006; Union City mayor, 1986-1992; served in New Jersey Assembly, Senate; Union City Board of Education, 1978.
Family: Divorced, two children
Education: graduate National University of Pedro Henriquez Urena, Dominican Republic
Occupation: Ophthalmology, owns Vitreo-Retinal Consultants in Florida
Family: Married, two children
The charges
Sen. Bob Menendez and Salomon Melgen were each charged with the following:
One count of conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services fraud for allegedly carrying out a scheme to use Menendez’s position as a senator to enrich themselves through bribery.
One count of violating the Travel Act, for allegedly engaging in interstate travel and foreign commerce with the intent to commit bribery.
Eight counts of bribery. Three relate to free round-trip flights Menendez accepted, allegedly in exchange for official action on Melgen’s behalf. Two stem from donations Melgen made to a legal defense fund for Menendez, allegedly in exchange for Menendez’s influence, as the need arose. Three others involve hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign donations by Melgen to political committees backing Menendez, allegedly in exchange for helping Melgen in disputes with the U.S. government over millions of dollars in Medicare overbillings and with the Dominican government over a lucrative contract for a Melgen-owned port security company.
Three counts of honest services fraud. Two involve wire fraud for causing pilots on Melgen’s private jet to communicate to air traffic controllers across state lines on flights alleged to be bribes. And one alleges mail fraud when Melgen mailed a campaign donation described as a bribe.
Menendez was charged with one additional count of making false statements, for allegedly concealing the gifts from Melgen by purposely failing to list them on financial disclosure forms that senators are required to file annually.
Melgen's money
A look at ways Salomon Melgen, his relatives and his company were able to help Bob Menendez over the years.
Amount
Main campaign accounts
Coordinated get-out-the-vote effort with Menendez on ballot
$60,400
Menendez chairman
Created by Menendez to oppose recall effort
$700,000
$104,000
Coordinated get-out-the-vote effort with Menendez on ballot
$1,000,600
TOTAL
Sources: Center for Responsive Politics, records filed with Federal Election Commission, NJ Election Law Enforcement Commission and Internal Revenue Service
The flights
Sen. Bob Menendez has disclosed taking several trips on Salomon Melgen's private plane. Here are details of those trips, as disclosed by Menendez, and how they were paid for:
May 14-16, 2010: Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, when Menendez was chairman, paid $5,400 to fly him from Atlanta, to the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.
Aug. 6-9 and Sept. 3-6, 2010: Menendez flew from southern Florida to the Dominican Republic and flew a round trip from Teterboro to the Dominican Republic, and in January 2013 reimbursed Melgen $58,500 for the trips.
Jan. 30, 2011: Menendez flew to New Jersey from campaign meetings and fundraisers in Miami, and reimbursed Melgen $11,250 in January 2014.
According to authorities, however, Menendez took many more flights paid for by Melgen. The indictment included the 2010 trips Menendez reimbursed, but noted that they were not paid for at the time of the flight. The full listing of flights included in the indictment:
Aug. 18, 2006: Menendez and an unidentified guest traveled on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach, Fla., to the Dominican Republic for a visit to Melgen's villa in Casa de Campo.
Aug. 24, 2006: Menendez and his guest flew from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
April 4, 2007: Menendez flew on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach to the Dominican Republic, again for a visit to the villa.
April 8, 2007: Melgen "furnished" a free flight from the Dominican Republic to Fort Lauderdale on a private jet owned by an associate of his.
Aug. 30, 2008: Melgen sent his private jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro to pick up Menendez and a guest - a different guest than the one in 2006 - to fly them for vacation at the Casa de Campo villa. They stayed in West Palm Beach overnight before completing the trip the next day.
Sept. 4, 2008: Menendez and his guest flew on Melgen's private jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
May 28, 2010: A third guest of Menendez's flew on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach to the Dominican Republic in order to meet Menendez for vacation at the villa.
June 1, 2010: The guest flew on Melgen's plane from the Dominican Republic to West Palm Beach after the vacation.
Aug. 6, 2010: Melgen sent his private jet from West Palm Beach to the Washington metropolitan area to pick up Mendendez. The senator flew to the Dominican Republic for vacation at the villa, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Aug. 9, 2010: Menendez flew Melgen's jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Sept. 3, 2010: Menendez and a guest - the third guest, from May - flew on Melgen's private jet from Teterboro to the Dominican Republic, with a stop in West Palm Beach, for a vacation that included Punta Cana.
Sept. 6, 2010: Menendez and his guest flew on Melgen's jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Oct. 8, 2010: Melgen, through an unidentified individual, bought Menendez a first-class flight, at a cost of $890, from Newark to West Palm Beach.
 
Tags:


<div id="ad_bnr_atf_01" class="ad-ad_bnr_atf_01"></div>
Menendez indictment: 3 girlfriends, 7 lavish trips, more than $750,000
Just Watched
Washington (CNN)
Sen. Robert Menendez pleaded not guilty on Thursday to 14 criminal counts against him, including eight counts of bribery in his dealings with Salomon Melgen, a Florida ophthalmologist.
During a brief press conference on Wednesday , the senator vehemently asserted his innocence and charged that the prosecutors were the ones who had it wrong.
They "don't know the difference between friendship and corruption and have chosen to twist my duties as a senator and my friendship into something that is improper," he said.
Just Watched
PLAY VIDEO
The 68-page indictment outlines in colorful detail those duties as a senator — which include allegedly intervening on behalf of Melgen's three girlfriends' visa applications, among other things — and his friendship — which includes nearly $1 million in trips, political contributions and other perks.
Despite the appearance of payment for services as alleged by the Justice Department, the two have been friends for decades, which Menendez allies say will make it challenging to successfully prosecute the two. As Menendez attorney Abbe David Lowell said during the Thursday press conference, prosecutors "have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a 20-year relationship between doctor Melgen and Senator Menendez was something else."
THE GIRLFRIENDS
Girlfriend 1:  A Brazilian national who worked as an actress, model and lawyer
Melgen offered to help fund graduate school for Girlfriend 1 at the University of Miami, and allegedly asked Menendez, who has been divorced since 2005, to help get her there.
According to the indictment, Menendez's office intervened on her behalf to help move her application for a student visa along in July 2008, but he had met her before her visa interview and knew her as Melgen's girlfriend.
A top Menendez adviser emailed the Deputy Assistant Secretary at Visa Services offering support for the woman's application, the day before her visa interview: "Sen. Menendez would like to advocate unconditionally for Dr. Melgen and encourage careful consideration of [Girlfriend 1]'s visa application."
The application was approved that day, and Melgen supported her education partially through a nonprofit he set up — called the Sal Melgen Foundation — with the self-described purpose of "help[ing] with the educational needs of disasvantages persons" and "assist[ing] with the economic educational needs of children in developing [sic] countires [sic] and the U.S."
Girlfriend 2: A Dominican national who worked as a model
Girlfriend 2 wanted to visit Melgen with her sister in 2008, when she was 22 years old and her sister was age 18.
Melgen initially wrote the U.S. embassy in the Dominican Republic asking for their visas to be approved and then contacted Menendez to help "move the letter along," according to an email between two Menendez staffers included in the indictment.
A Melgen aide told a Menendez staffer, per that email exchange, that the women wanted to visit around Christmas, to sightsee and tour around Palm Beach, and said they were "very good friends with Melgen." The Senate staffer said they "pressed for more info, but [the Melgen aide] wouldn't go beyond that" in elaborating on their relationship.
The indictment alleged that Menendez had met the woman in question, however, in 2008, and knew her as Melgen's girlfriend.
Staffers drafted a letter from Menendez to the embassy requesting approval for their applications: "They plan to visit someone I know well, Dr. Salomon Melgen, who is an eye doctor in Florida."
And the girlfriend asked for a copy of the letter from Melgen in a brief love letter:
"I write to remind you that you need to send me a copy of what Senator Bob Menendez's office sent you, which I need for the embassy," she wrote. "And also remember the bank thing please. Thank You. A Kiss."
Their applications for tourist visas were denied, because as the embassy employee explained in a memorandum, "neither is working. No solvency of their own. Not fully convinced of motives for travel." After repeated inquiries from Menendez's staff, their applications were approved after a second interview.
But at least one Menendez staffer raised a flag on the process. That staffer emailed another on their personal accounts referencing two people from the Dominican Republic who received visas.
"In my view, this is ONLY DUE to the fact that rm INTERVENED. I've told RM," the staffer wrote.
Girlfriend 3: A Ukrainian national who worked as a model and actress
Girlfriend number three was granted a visa to travel from Spain to Miami, Florida, to see Melgen after Menendez's office issued a letter, signed with the senator's name and advocating on her behalf, to visa officials.
The letter says Melgen "has extended an invitation to his good friend [Girlfriend 3] to undergo medical evaluation for plastic surgery as well as to visit with him within the U.S."
It also notes that the girlfriend was "the broadcast image for channel Tele 5 Spana and thus, a famous person in Spain," and so has ample ties to Spain that officials shouldn't be worried that she won't return home.
During her visit, Menendez met the girlfriend over dinner with Melgen at Azul, a restaurant in the Mandarin Hotel. The senator was introduced to the girlfriend, according to the indictment, as the man who helped her with her visa.
THE TRAVEL
From Punta Cana to Paris
The indictment outlines travel for seven trips Menendez took that Melgen paid for, typically on Melgen's private jet but at one point on a chartered private jet on which Menendez was the only passenger. The flights largely brought Menendez from New Jersey and Washington down to the Dominican Republic, where Melgen owned a Caribbean Villa (as it's described in the indictment).
One time, Melgen paid for a flight to Punta Cana for a wedding, where he also set Menendez and a guest up in a two-bedroom suite shared with Melgen and his wife, free of charge.
Another time, Melgen paid about $875 for a private car company to drive the senator from Hoboken, New Jersey, to and around New York City.
EXPAND IMAGE
Melgen once used nearly 650,000 American Express rewards points to pay for a three-night stay in a luxury hotel in Paris for Menendez to meet up with his girlfriend. The room in the Park Hyatt Paris-Vendome cost nearly $1,540 per night, totaling $4,930 for the three-night stay, and Menendez described it in an email to Melgen as having a "king bed, work area with Internet, limestone bath with soaking tub and enclosed rain shower, [and] views of courtyard or streets."
"You call American Express Rewards and they will book it for you. It would need to be in my name," he told Melgen in an email at one point.
In 2013, after word of the federal investigation became public, Menendez paid back Melgen $58,000 for the 2010 plane trips calling his failure to properly disclose the flights an "oversight."
THE FUNDRAISING
"Don't worry. We will take care of it."
That was the response from a Melgen associate to a request from a Menendez aide for contributions to support the senator.
In an email sent in April 2012 to a Melgen aide, a Menendez staffer outlined requests for at least $60,000 in donations to entities benefitting Menendez. The staffer said he "humbly wanted to put a big ask" before Melgen, requesting the doctor and his family members contribute a total of $40,000 to the New Jersey Democratic State Committee Victory Federal Account, which would support Menendez and other New Jersey Democrats locked in re-election fights.
Melgen's personal assistant, identified in the indictment only as "Person A" responded:  "Regarding your request ... don't worry. We will take care of it. Dr. Melgen will be calling you tomorrow to speak further."
On May 16, 2012, Melgen and his wife contributed $20,000 each to the New Jersey Democratic State Committee Victory Fund and the legal fund for Menendez, and Melgen's daughter and her husband contributed another $20,000 to the N.J. Democratic Party fund. Melgen appeared to reimburse his daughter with a $20,000 check issued from his ophthalmology practice that same day.
More than $750,000
That's the amount, according to the indictment, that Melgen gave — through his family and business — to entities supporting Menendez's re-election effort in 2012.
Of that, $143,500 went to New Jersey State and County Democratic Party entities. Melgen also contributed approximately $600,000 to Majority PAC, a super PAC backing Democratic Senate candidates and incumbents, in two contributions of $300,000. Both of which were earmarked for the New Jersey Senate race — in which Menendez was the only Democratic contender.
And Melgen also contributed $8,000 to an unnamed female senator -- who turned out to be Minnesota's Amy Klobuchar -- after Menendez and his staff asked the doctor directly to help return the fundraising favor to the senator, who had raised money for Menendez's reelection fight and was facing a primary challenge. Klobuchar announced she was returning the funds following the indictment.
THE BUSINESSES
"Who has the best juice at CMS and Dept of Health"?
That was something Menendez tried to determine when intervening on Melgen's behalf in a Medicare reimbursement dispute, according to an email he sent to a staffer that was included in the indictment — and the senator ended up speaking to the top officials at both the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the Department of Health and Human Services about the issue.
The indictment outlines a multi-year battle between Melgen and federal health officials over $8.98 million he was alleged to have over-billed Medicare for a drug he used in his ophthalmology practice.
Guidelines at the Federal Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention called for each vial of the drug to be used for only one patient, to prevent the risk of contamination and the spread of infection, but Melgen allegedly used leftovers from single-use vials to treat additional patients — and then billed CMS for the full cost of a single vial for each dose of the drug he administered.
According to the indictment, Melgen and his associates repeatedly lobbied Menendez's office through emails, calls and meetings to intervene on his behalf in the dispute.
The senator ultimately secured conversations with both the acting administrator of CMS and the secretary of HHS, and was briefed by Melgen's team on the dispute before both meetings. He also got then-Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's office involved in the dispute, according to multiple scheduling emails sent between the two offices.
During a July 2009 phone call with the head of CMS, the indictment alleges that Menendez "asserted that CMS' policy guidelines regarding single-use vials were vague and that a doctor in Florida was being treated unfairly as a result." When the administrator said they should "allow the case to take its course," Menendez, according to the indictment, told him "not to tell him about Melgen's appellate rights and abruptly ended the call."
The indictment alleges that, during his meeting with HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius , Menendez "advocated on behalf of Melgen's position in his Medicare billing dispute, focusing on Melgen's specific case and asserting that Melgen was being treated unfairly" — an assertion with which the secretary disagreed.
The meeting was "quite 'lively,'" according to an email from Melgen's lobbyist to two Menendez staffers after the meeting took place.
Menendez staffers also intervened in a trade dispute that would have allegedly affected Melgen's financial interests in the Dominican Republic. Emails included in the indictment show his staffers sought to prevent Customs and Border Patrol from donating screening equipment at ports that would've undermined Melgen's own screening business there.
THE TIMING
While there's no admission from either man in the indictment that any of the trips, contributions or perks Melgen paid for were expressly in exchange for Menendez's work on his behalf, in a number of instances the dates of the contributions coincide with actions taken by the senator's office that could have benefited Melgen.
The indictment notes that Menendez met with the top official at CMS about the dispute on June 7, six days after Melgen issued a $300,000 donation, through his business, to Majority PAC, earmarked to be used for the New Jersey Senate race.
On Oct. 19, 2012, Melgen emailed Menendez, a Menendez staffer and a Majority PAC fundraiser an update on his Medicare billing appeal. That was one week after Melgen issued, through his business, another $300,000 check to Majority PAC to be used for the New Jersey Senate race, and three $25,000 checks to New Jersey Democratic County organizations.
The Majority PAC fundraiser, also identified as a former Menendez staffer, replied to Melgen's email and promised to deliver the update to Menendez next time they saw the senator, later that week.
And on Jan. 11, 2013, Menendez directed his staffers via email to contact Customs and Border Patrol and try to prevent them from donating monitoring equipment for shipping ports that the indictment alleges would've impacted Melgen's financial interests. That was the day after Menendez, Melgen and another unnamed person golfed together at the private Banyan Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Florida, where Melgen paid for greens fees and the third person spent nearly $360 for dinner at a steakhouse.
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly -- The Justice Department is preparing to bring criminal corruption charges against Sen. Robert Menendez of New Jersey, alleging the Democrat used his Senate office to push the business interests of a donor and friend in exchange for gifts.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – Former Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell arrives at his corruption trial in Richmond, Virginia, on Thursday, September 4. A jury convicted McDonnell and his wife, Maureen, on charges related to influence peddling, concluding a sometimes dramatic trial and derailing the political ambitions of the one-time rising star in the Republican Party.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – Rep. Vance McAllister, shown here as he awaits to be sworn in to the House last fall, asked for forgiveness from God, his family and his constituents after a newspaper published what it said was surveillance video showing the married Louisiana Republican making out with a female staffer.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – Toronto Mayor Rob Ford addresses members of the media outside his office in Toronto, on November 7, after the release of a video showing Ford in a rage. Ford has admitted smoking crack cocaine.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – Former U.S. Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr., D-Illinois, and his wife, Sandra, arrive at federal court in Washington for sentencing in August 2013. Jackson was sentenced to 30 months in prison for improper use of campaign funds, while his wife got 12 months for filing false tax returns.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich was sentenced to 14 years in prison in 2012 after being convicted of 18 criminal counts, including trying to sell the appointment to fill the U.S. Senate seat vacated by Barack Obama's election as president.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – Former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas, leaves the Travis County Jail in Austin, Texas, after being sentenced to three years in prison for money laundering and conspiracy.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – Lewis "Scooter" Libby, former Vice President Dick Cheney's chief of staff, was convicted in 2007 of obstructing a federal investigation into who revealed the identity of CIA agent Valerie Plame Wilson. He was sentenced to 30 months in prison and fined $250,000, but former President George W. Bush commuted his sentence.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – Former U.S. Rep. William Jefferson, D-Louisiana, was sentenced to 13 years in prison in 2009 after being convicted of 11 counts of corruption related to using his office to solicit bribes. He was also ordered to forfeit $470,000.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – Former U.S. Rep. Bob Ney, R-Ohio, was sentenced to 30 months in prison in 2007 after being convicted of conspiracy to commit fraud and making false statements to investigators.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – U.S. Rep. James Traficant Jr., D-Ohio, spent seven years in prison after being convicted of bribery and corruption and tax evasion charges in 2002.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – Former U.S. Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham, R-California, was sentenced in 2006 to eight years in prison after he was convicted of collecting $2.4 million in homes, yachts, antique furnishings and other bribes on a scale unparalleled in the history of Congress.
Hide Caption
Photos: Politicians behaving badly 13 photos
Politicians behaving badly – The late Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D-Illinois, lost his seat in the Republican landslide of 1994 amid corruption charges. He served a year in prison after his 1996 conviction, then was pardoned by President Bill Clinton. He died in August 2010.
Hide Caption
The New Congress
Confirm

