Friendship under fire; a legal fight to define Menendez-Melgen relationship
April 2, 2015, 12:27 PM    Last updated: Friday, April 3, 2015, 12:23 AM
By SHAWN BOBURG and MELISSA HAYES
staff writers | 
The Record
U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez arriving Thursday at federal court in Newark.
Sen. Bob Menendez and a wealthy Florida eye doctor, accused of working together in an extensive bribery scheme, entered a federal courtroom separately on Thursday afternoon. Flanked by their attorneys, they sat at different tables but exchanged warm smiles and nods during a hearing in which neither man spoke.
Leaving the federal courthouse in Newark, after each pleaded not guilty to more than a dozen charges, Dr. Salomon Melgen hurried past reporters and into his waiting Chevrolet Suburban, while Menendez continued his defiance with a fiery statement.
Salomon Melgen leaves Federal Court Thursday.
The limited interplay between the two men only hinted at what will be a central question in the major political corruption case: Were Melgen’s lavish gifts and Menendez’s advocacy of Melgen’s business interests the byproducts of a close personal friendship or the fruits of a relationship built on influence peddling?
The case is likely to define the line between bribery and friendship, requiring prosecutors and defense attorneys to reconstruct duel­ing narratives about what sustained the longtime relationship between the powerful senator and one of his most prolific donors.
But on Thursday, the proceedings started with a routine hearing, even though it involved a sitting U.S. senator.
Menendez was ordered to surrender his personal passport, but was released without any further restrictions. Melgen posted $1.5 million bail, $150,000 of which was to be paid in cash and the rest by property used as collateral. The 60-year-old eye doctor, who wore a dark suit with a light blue tie, was ordered to surrender his two passports, to remove a gun collection from his Florida home and submit to drug testing and potentially to treatment.
A private jet owned by Melgen, like those used to provide free flights to Menendez 20 times since 2006, was ordered grounded. A Dominican national, Melgen traveled to the Caribbean country biweekly, federal Judge William H. Walls said, but now must remain within the continental United States. Melgen’s attorney, Maria Dominguez, said her client had voluntarily given up his license to operate the jet.
Early trial unlikely
The two men sat about 5 yards apart at tables perpendicular to each other. Before the hearing, Menendez, wearing a blue striped suit with a U.S. Senate pin on his left lapel, looked in Melgen’s direction twice and smiled at him. Melgen, who held his hands clasped on the table, nodded in acknowledgment. Later, each stood next to his attorney at the lectern as the lawyers individually entered not-guilty pleas on behalf of their clients.
Prosecutors allege Melgen provided bribes in the form of free flights on his private jet, vacations in a Paris hotel suite and a Caribbean villa, and nearly $800,000 in campaign contributions. In exchange, they allege Menendez promoted Melgen’s business and personal interests. New Jersey’s senior senator tried to help Melgen keep $9 million that Medicare said he overbilled the government; pressed the State Department to provide visas so Melgen’s girlfriends from Brazil, the Dominican Republic and Ukraine could study in or visit Florida; and pushed for federal pressure to sway the Dominican government over a port security contract Melgen owned.
The sole dispute between prosecutors and defense attorneys during the hearing focused on whether Menendez should be required to give up his personal passport.
Menendez’s attorney, Abbe Lowell, said it made little sense for the government to request the senator’s personal passport be surrendered while agreeing to allow him to keep his foreign travel credentials for government-related business.
“If this were any other defendant, he’d be required to give up his personal passport,” U.S. prosecutor Peter Koski said. “We’re asking that he be treated like any other defendant.”
“He’s not just any other defendant,” Lowell shot back.
The judge agreed with prosecutors.
Prosecutors had originally sought $2 million bail for Melgen but agreed to the lower amount during discussions over the past few days, Melgen’s attorney, Maria Dominguez, said. She said Melgen also agreed to drug testing, noting that he has attention deficit disorder and is on prescribed sleep medication. Melgen will temporarily live in an apartment in West Palm Beach until a gun collection in his home is removed in the next two weeks; he also is required to give up his firearms licenses.
The next court date, a status conference, is scheduled for April 22.
Other cases cited
Menendez and his attorney told reporters after the hearing that the Department of Justice was wrong to bring charges.
“For nearly three years, the Justice Department has pursued allegations based on smears launched by political opponents trying to silence me,” Menendez said. “Now they have laid out their case. We will finally have an opportunity to respond on the record, in court, with the facts.”
His attorney, Lowell, cited several other cases the Justice Department has lost, including its case against former Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens. Stevens, a Republican, was charged with failing to report gifts — something the government also is alleging Menendez has done. Stevens was convicted, but that verdict and the indictment were overturned after a whistle-blower said the government had withheld evidence.
“Prosecutors at the Justice Department often get it wrong,” Lowell said. “These charges are the latest mistakes.”
He said the investigation was “fueled by heavy-handed actions of agents pressuring witnesses and then it had more than its fair share of improper leaks to the press.”
Lowell said he had asked the Justice Department to investigate the leaks.
Prosecutors had given the grand jury that handed up the indictment one description of the relationship between the senator and Melgen, Lowell said. But that version didn’t include Menendez’s account, he said.
“Now they have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a 20-year friendship relationship between Dr. Melgen and Senator Menendez was something else,” he said.
Email: boburg@northjersey.com and hayes@northjersey.com 
Age: 61
Hometown: Paramus
Education: St. Peter’s College, bachelor’s degree, 1976; Rutgers University School of Law, 1979.
Public Service: U.S. Senate, 2006 to present, former chairman of Foreign Relations Committee; U.S House of Representatives, 1992-2006; Union City mayor, 1986-1992; served in New Jersey Assembly, Senate; Union City Board of Education, 1978.
Family: Divorced, two children
Education: graduate National University of Pedro Henriquez Urena, Dominican Republic
Occupation: Ophthalmology, owns Vitreo-Retinal Consultants in Florida
Family: Married, two children
The charges
Sen. Bob Menendez and Salomon Melgen were each charged with the following:
One count of conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services fraud for allegedly carrying out a scheme to use Menendez’s position as a senator to enrich themselves through bribery.
One count of violating the Travel Act, for allegedly engaging in interstate travel and foreign commerce with the intent to commit bribery.
Eight counts of bribery. Three relate to free round-trip flights Menendez accepted, allegedly in exchange for official action on Melgen’s behalf. Two stem from donations Melgen made to a legal defense fund for Menendez, allegedly in exchange for Menendez’s influence, as the need arose. Three others involve hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign donations by Melgen to political committees backing Menendez, allegedly in exchange for helping Melgen in disputes with the U.S. government over millions of dollars in Medicare overbillings and with the Dominican government over a lucrative contract for a Melgen-owned port security company.
Three counts of honest services fraud. Two involve wire fraud for causing pilots on Melgen’s private jet to communicate to air traffic controllers across state lines on flights alleged to be bribes. And one alleges mail fraud when Melgen mailed a campaign donation described as a bribe.
Menendez was charged with one additional count of making false statements, for allegedly concealing the gifts from Melgen by purposely failing to list them on financial disclosure forms that senators are required to file annually.
Melgen's money
A look at ways Salomon Melgen, his relatives and his company were able to help Bob Menendez over the years.
Amount
Main campaign accounts
Coordinated get-out-the-vote effort with Menendez on ballot
$60,400
Menendez chairman
Created by Menendez to oppose recall effort
$700,000
$104,000
Coordinated get-out-the-vote effort with Menendez on ballot
$1,000,600
TOTAL
Sources: Center for Responsive Politics, records filed with Federal Election Commission, NJ Election Law Enforcement Commission and Internal Revenue Service
The flights
Sen. Bob Menendez has disclosed taking several trips on Salomon Melgen's private plane. Here are details of those trips, as disclosed by Menendez, and how they were paid for:
May 14-16, 2010: Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, when Menendez was chairman, paid $5,400 to fly him from Atlanta, to the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.
Aug. 6-9 and Sept. 3-6, 2010: Menendez flew from southern Florida to the Dominican Republic and flew a round trip from Teterboro to the Dominican Republic, and in January 2013 reimbursed Melgen $58,500 for the trips.
Jan. 30, 2011: Menendez flew to New Jersey from campaign meetings and fundraisers in Miami, and reimbursed Melgen $11,250 in January 2014.
According to authorities, however, Menendez took many more flights paid for by Melgen. The indictment included the 2010 trips Menendez reimbursed, but noted that they were not paid for at the time of the flight. The full listing of flights included in the indictment:
Aug. 18, 2006: Menendez and an unidentified guest traveled on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach, Fla., to the Dominican Republic for a visit to Melgen's villa in Casa de Campo.
Aug. 24, 2006: Menendez and his guest flew from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
April 4, 2007: Menendez flew on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach to the Dominican Republic, again for a visit to the villa.
April 8, 2007: Melgen "furnished" a free flight from the Dominican Republic to Fort Lauderdale on a private jet owned by an associate of his.
Aug. 30, 2008: Melgen sent his private jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro to pick up Menendez and a guest - a different guest than the one in 2006 - to fly them for vacation at the Casa de Campo villa. They stayed in West Palm Beach overnight before completing the trip the next day.
Sept. 4, 2008: Menendez and his guest flew on Melgen's private jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
May 28, 2010: A third guest of Menendez's flew on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach to the Dominican Republic in order to meet Menendez for vacation at the villa.
June 1, 2010: The guest flew on Melgen's plane from the Dominican Republic to West Palm Beach after the vacation.
Aug. 6, 2010: Melgen sent his private jet from West Palm Beach to the Washington metropolitan area to pick up Mendendez. The senator flew to the Dominican Republic for vacation at the villa, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Aug. 9, 2010: Menendez flew Melgen's jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Sept. 3, 2010: Menendez and a guest - the third guest, from May - flew on Melgen's private jet from Teterboro to the Dominican Republic, with a stop in West Palm Beach, for a vacation that included Punta Cana.
Sept. 6, 2010: Menendez and his guest flew on Melgen's jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Oct. 8, 2010: Melgen, through an unidentified individual, bought Menendez a first-class flight, at a cost of $890, from Newark to West Palm Beach.
 
Tags:


His lawyer says gifts were the fruits of friendship.
Posted: Thursday, April 2, 2015, 2:05 PM
NEWARK, N.J. - Sen. Robert Menendez (D., N.J.) foreshadowed the argument he hopes will save his career as he began his formal fight against corruption charges Thursday.
Menendez and South Florida eye doctor Salomon Melgen, a longtime friend and major donor, each pleaded not guilty to charges that Melgen won the senator's support with lavish gifts described in vivid detail over a 68-page indictment.
"Prosecutors get to write the indictment they want, after a secret, one-sided presentation in a grand jury," Menendez attorney Abbe Lowell said after the afternoon hearing. "Now they have to make good on those charges. Now they have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a 20-year friendship between Sen. Menendez and Dr. Melgen was something else."
The statement touched on the crux of Menendez's defense against 14 counts of conspiracy, bribery, and other charges: that the gifts from Melgen were presents to a friend, not bribes.
When the charges were announced Wednesday, Menendez said prosecutors "don't know the difference between friendship and corruption."
Lowell, citing botched federal prosecutions against the late Sen. Ted Stevens (R., Alaska) and former presidential candidate John Edwards, called the charges against Menendez "the latest mistakes."
But former prosecutors were impressed by the level of detail in the indictment alleging that Melgen's generosity went beyond friendship and led to official help.
"The Stevens indictment was relatively thin," said one, Robert Walker. "This one's a phone book."
It describes Melgen's providing a stay at a five-star Paris hotel, more than a dozen private flights for Menendez or his guests, car service and more, and Menendez's using his office to apply pressure to help his friend's business and personal interests.
Though there is no record of Menendez promising anything in exchange for Melgen's generosity, Walker, a former attorney in the Justice Department's public integrity section, said the narrative seems aimed at painting a broad, comprehensive picture of the senator's allegedly helping his donor far more than an average constituent.
"Yeah, you exchanged gifts: He gave you this, and you gave him official action," said Walker, now an attorney at Wiley Rein, characterizing the charges. "That's what the prosecution is aiming at and driving at."
Walter Timpone, who once led the public corruption unit in the U.S. Attorney's Office in New Jersey, said, "Friendship has to steer clear of ethical lapses, and I think that's again where the battle is going."
On its face, the friendship argument is plausible, said Andrew Levchuk, a former attorney in the public integrity section.
"The question is, how active was the senator on behalf of his friend?" said Levchuk, now a defense attorney at the firm Bulkely Richardson in Massachusetts. "Were these things that Melgen, given his friendship, would have done for Menendez anyway? Or in fact, did he keep the gravy train flowing so he could continue to get favors?"
Menendez's lawyers plan to chip away at the many details laid out in the indictment, aiming to have some elements thrown out and diminishing the case prosecutors have presented.
Lowell - who also defended Edwards - "is a wonderful defense lawyer who could basically poke holes through a steel door," Timpone said.
Some of Menendez's actions in the indictment, the senator plans to argue, are protected by the Constitution's "speech or debate" clause, which shields lawmakers from prosecution for legislative activity, according to a Menendez ally. The ally insisted on anonymity to discuss Menendez's legal strategy.
The senator's many stays at Melgen's luxurious Dominican Republic villa are allowed under Senate rules permitting stays at a friend's home, he plans to argue.
And more than $700,000 in campaign contributions detailed from Melgen to Menendez are allowed under federal rules, his legal team plans to say.
"What they will try to do is limit the evidence that comes in," Levchuk said. "They don't have to knock out everything ... but if you can limit the number of quid pro quo items, if you will," it can weaken the government's case.
Each of Menendez's arguments, of course, will likely be contested by prosecutors.
And he does not have easy answers for several issues in the indictment.
The ethics exception for staying at a friend's home won't apply to the three-night stay in Paris, valued at close to $5,000, that Melgen paid for with American Express points.
Menendez's meeting with a cabinet official, where he pushed Melgen's argument in an $8.9 million Medicare billing fight, likely won't fall under the speech or debate clause.
And the senator failed to disclose the vast majority of the flights he took on Melgen's jet, many of which had not been reported until the indictment was released.
That omission may help prosecutors argue that Menendez had criminal intent, Levchuk said. If the flights were OK all along, they can ask, why didn't he report them?
Menendez remained defiant Thursday.
"These allegations are false, and I am confident they will be proven false," he told reporters outside the federal courthouse.
After the hearing, Menendez, 61, was released on his own recognizance and was required to surrender his personal passport, but not his official one.
Melgen, 61, of West Palm Beach, was released on $1.5 million bail. He was ordered to remove all firearms - many in his son's collection - from his South Florida home, and surrendered his U.S. and Dominican passports. He will lose access to his private jet.
Menendez and Melgen smiled at each other before the hearing. Neither spoke during the brief proceeding before U.S. District Judge William H. Walls.
Menendez is next scheduled to appear in court April 22 for a procedural matter, and a tentative trial date was set for summer.
Afterward, Lowell called on prosecutors to investigate leaks to the press concerning the case.
Menendez, meanwhile, continued to weigh in on the issues of the day, including the international agreement on Iran's nuclear program - a cause the senator has watched closely.
The deal was announced during his court hearing, but Menendez, who has temporarily stepped down as the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, still blasted out a statement.
Later, another release shared his thoughts on World Autism Day.
Get the latest Philly.com Daily Headlines newsletter delivered to your email. Sign up now!

