Friendship under fire; a legal fight to define Menendez-Melgen relationship
April 2, 2015, 12:27 PM    Last updated: Friday, April 3, 2015, 12:23 AM
By SHAWN BOBURG and MELISSA HAYES
staff writers | 
The Record
U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez arriving Thursday at federal court in Newark.
Sen. Bob Menendez and a wealthy Florida eye doctor, accused of working together in an extensive bribery scheme, entered a federal courtroom separately on Thursday afternoon. Flanked by their attorneys, they sat at different tables but exchanged warm smiles and nods during a hearing in which neither man spoke.
Leaving the federal courthouse in Newark, after each pleaded not guilty to more than a dozen charges, Dr. Salomon Melgen hurried past reporters and into his waiting Chevrolet Suburban, while Menendez continued his defiance with a fiery statement.
Salomon Melgen leaves Federal Court Thursday.
The limited interplay between the two men only hinted at what will be a central question in the major political corruption case: Were Melgen’s lavish gifts and Menendez’s advocacy of Melgen’s business interests the byproducts of a close personal friendship or the fruits of a relationship built on influence peddling?
The case is likely to define the line between bribery and friendship, requiring prosecutors and defense attorneys to reconstruct duel­ing narratives about what sustained the longtime relationship between the powerful senator and one of his most prolific donors.
But on Thursday, the proceedings started with a routine hearing, even though it involved a sitting U.S. senator.
Menendez was ordered to surrender his personal passport, but was released without any further restrictions. Melgen posted $1.5 million bail, $150,000 of which was to be paid in cash and the rest by property used as collateral. The 60-year-old eye doctor, who wore a dark suit with a light blue tie, was ordered to surrender his two passports, to remove a gun collection from his Florida home and submit to drug testing and potentially to treatment.
A private jet owned by Melgen, like those used to provide free flights to Menendez 20 times since 2006, was ordered grounded. A Dominican national, Melgen traveled to the Caribbean country biweekly, federal Judge William H. Walls said, but now must remain within the continental United States. Melgen’s attorney, Maria Dominguez, said her client had voluntarily given up his license to operate the jet.
Early trial unlikely
The two men sat about 5 yards apart at tables perpendicular to each other. Before the hearing, Menendez, wearing a blue striped suit with a U.S. Senate pin on his left lapel, looked in Melgen’s direction twice and smiled at him. Melgen, who held his hands clasped on the table, nodded in acknowledgment. Later, each stood next to his attorney at the lectern as the lawyers individually entered not-guilty pleas on behalf of their clients.
Prosecutors allege Melgen provided bribes in the form of free flights on his private jet, vacations in a Paris hotel suite and a Caribbean villa, and nearly $800,000 in campaign contributions. In exchange, they allege Menendez promoted Melgen’s business and personal interests. New Jersey’s senior senator tried to help Melgen keep $9 million that Medicare said he overbilled the government; pressed the State Department to provide visas so Melgen’s girlfriends from Brazil, the Dominican Republic and Ukraine could study in or visit Florida; and pushed for federal pressure to sway the Dominican government over a port security contract Melgen owned.
The sole dispute between prosecutors and defense attorneys during the hearing focused on whether Menendez should be required to give up his personal passport.
Menendez’s attorney, Abbe Lowell, said it made little sense for the government to request the senator’s personal passport be surrendered while agreeing to allow him to keep his foreign travel credentials for government-related business.
“If this were any other defendant, he’d be required to give up his personal passport,” U.S. prosecutor Peter Koski said. “We’re asking that he be treated like any other defendant.”
“He’s not just any other defendant,” Lowell shot back.
The judge agreed with prosecutors.
Prosecutors had originally sought $2 million bail for Melgen but agreed to the lower amount during discussions over the past few days, Melgen’s attorney, Maria Dominguez, said. She said Melgen also agreed to drug testing, noting that he has attention deficit disorder and is on prescribed sleep medication. Melgen will temporarily live in an apartment in West Palm Beach until a gun collection in his home is removed in the next two weeks; he also is required to give up his firearms licenses.
The next court date, a status conference, is scheduled for April 22.
Other cases cited
Menendez and his attorney told reporters after the hearing that the Department of Justice was wrong to bring charges.
“For nearly three years, the Justice Department has pursued allegations based on smears launched by political opponents trying to silence me,” Menendez said. “Now they have laid out their case. We will finally have an opportunity to respond on the record, in court, with the facts.”
His attorney, Lowell, cited several other cases the Justice Department has lost, including its case against former Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens. Stevens, a Republican, was charged with failing to report gifts — something the government also is alleging Menendez has done. Stevens was convicted, but that verdict and the indictment were overturned after a whistle-blower said the government had withheld evidence.
“Prosecutors at the Justice Department often get it wrong,” Lowell said. “These charges are the latest mistakes.”
He said the investigation was “fueled by heavy-handed actions of agents pressuring witnesses and then it had more than its fair share of improper leaks to the press.”
Lowell said he had asked the Justice Department to investigate the leaks.
Prosecutors had given the grand jury that handed up the indictment one description of the relationship between the senator and Melgen, Lowell said. But that version didn’t include Menendez’s account, he said.
“Now they have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a 20-year friendship relationship between Dr. Melgen and Senator Menendez was something else,” he said.
Email: boburg@northjersey.com and hayes@northjersey.com 
Age: 61
Hometown: Paramus
Education: St. Peter’s College, bachelor’s degree, 1976; Rutgers University School of Law, 1979.
Public Service: U.S. Senate, 2006 to present, former chairman of Foreign Relations Committee; U.S House of Representatives, 1992-2006; Union City mayor, 1986-1992; served in New Jersey Assembly, Senate; Union City Board of Education, 1978.
Family: Divorced, two children
Education: graduate National University of Pedro Henriquez Urena, Dominican Republic
Occupation: Ophthalmology, owns Vitreo-Retinal Consultants in Florida
Family: Married, two children
The charges
Sen. Bob Menendez and Salomon Melgen were each charged with the following:
One count of conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services fraud for allegedly carrying out a scheme to use Menendez’s position as a senator to enrich themselves through bribery.
One count of violating the Travel Act, for allegedly engaging in interstate travel and foreign commerce with the intent to commit bribery.
Eight counts of bribery. Three relate to free round-trip flights Menendez accepted, allegedly in exchange for official action on Melgen’s behalf. Two stem from donations Melgen made to a legal defense fund for Menendez, allegedly in exchange for Menendez’s influence, as the need arose. Three others involve hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign donations by Melgen to political committees backing Menendez, allegedly in exchange for helping Melgen in disputes with the U.S. government over millions of dollars in Medicare overbillings and with the Dominican government over a lucrative contract for a Melgen-owned port security company.
Three counts of honest services fraud. Two involve wire fraud for causing pilots on Melgen’s private jet to communicate to air traffic controllers across state lines on flights alleged to be bribes. And one alleges mail fraud when Melgen mailed a campaign donation described as a bribe.
Menendez was charged with one additional count of making false statements, for allegedly concealing the gifts from Melgen by purposely failing to list them on financial disclosure forms that senators are required to file annually.
Melgen's money
A look at ways Salomon Melgen, his relatives and his company were able to help Bob Menendez over the years.
Amount
Main campaign accounts
Coordinated get-out-the-vote effort with Menendez on ballot
$60,400
Menendez chairman
Created by Menendez to oppose recall effort
$700,000
$104,000
Coordinated get-out-the-vote effort with Menendez on ballot
$1,000,600
TOTAL
Sources: Center for Responsive Politics, records filed with Federal Election Commission, NJ Election Law Enforcement Commission and Internal Revenue Service
The flights
Sen. Bob Menendez has disclosed taking several trips on Salomon Melgen's private plane. Here are details of those trips, as disclosed by Menendez, and how they were paid for:
May 14-16, 2010: Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, when Menendez was chairman, paid $5,400 to fly him from Atlanta, to the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.
Aug. 6-9 and Sept. 3-6, 2010: Menendez flew from southern Florida to the Dominican Republic and flew a round trip from Teterboro to the Dominican Republic, and in January 2013 reimbursed Melgen $58,500 for the trips.
Jan. 30, 2011: Menendez flew to New Jersey from campaign meetings and fundraisers in Miami, and reimbursed Melgen $11,250 in January 2014.
According to authorities, however, Menendez took many more flights paid for by Melgen. The indictment included the 2010 trips Menendez reimbursed, but noted that they were not paid for at the time of the flight. The full listing of flights included in the indictment:
Aug. 18, 2006: Menendez and an unidentified guest traveled on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach, Fla., to the Dominican Republic for a visit to Melgen's villa in Casa de Campo.
Aug. 24, 2006: Menendez and his guest flew from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
April 4, 2007: Menendez flew on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach to the Dominican Republic, again for a visit to the villa.
April 8, 2007: Melgen "furnished" a free flight from the Dominican Republic to Fort Lauderdale on a private jet owned by an associate of his.
Aug. 30, 2008: Melgen sent his private jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro to pick up Menendez and a guest - a different guest than the one in 2006 - to fly them for vacation at the Casa de Campo villa. They stayed in West Palm Beach overnight before completing the trip the next day.
Sept. 4, 2008: Menendez and his guest flew on Melgen's private jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
May 28, 2010: A third guest of Menendez's flew on Melgen's private jet from West Palm Beach to the Dominican Republic in order to meet Menendez for vacation at the villa.
June 1, 2010: The guest flew on Melgen's plane from the Dominican Republic to West Palm Beach after the vacation.
Aug. 6, 2010: Melgen sent his private jet from West Palm Beach to the Washington metropolitan area to pick up Mendendez. The senator flew to the Dominican Republic for vacation at the villa, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Aug. 9, 2010: Menendez flew Melgen's jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Sept. 3, 2010: Menendez and a guest - the third guest, from May - flew on Melgen's private jet from Teterboro to the Dominican Republic, with a stop in West Palm Beach, for a vacation that included Punta Cana.
Sept. 6, 2010: Menendez and his guest flew on Melgen's jet from the Dominican Republic to Teterboro, with a stop in West Palm Beach.
Oct. 8, 2010: Melgen, through an unidentified individual, bought Menendez a first-class flight, at a cost of $890, from Newark to West Palm Beach.
 
Tags:


Why Jersey Politicians Are All Crooks
With his indictment, Bob Menendez joins a long list of New Jersey politicians who find themselves on the wrong side of the law.
Bob Menendez has just been indicted on 14 criminal counts , including eight counts of bribery. While it’s not every day that a member of the United States Senate is hit with criminal charges, it might as well be every day that a politician from New Jersey is revealed to be corrupt. 
“There is something about this state—whether it’s in the air or in the water or whatever it is, that just makes people more accepting of corrupt practices,” Bob Ingle, co-author of The Soprano State, said. 
“I am not going anywhere,” a defiant Menendez said at a Newark press conference, the crowd studded with his supporters, on Wednesday evening. “I am angry and ready to fight. Today contradicts my public service career in my entire life,” he snapped, as supporters chanted “Menendez! Menendez!” and “Viva Bob!”
But Menendez’s optimism ignores New Jersey’s history.
Part of the problem may be the sheer number of public officials the Garden State employs.
New Jersey is the fourth-smallest state in terms of square mileage, yet it has 565 municipalities, each of which employs dozens of public officials.
“There is a lot of government and there are a lot of people running that government, and it’s very difficult to keep up with all of them,” Ingle said, calling the system “bureaucracy on top of bureaucracy.” 
New Jersey’s boss system—meaning parties are controlled by unelected, omnipotent dictators—also might be a cause of the moral bankruptcy.
The two most notable being George Norcross III in southern Jersey (defined as everything south of Trenton), best-known for telling an enemy, “you’re going to get your fucking balls cut off,” and Joe “Joe D” DiVincenzo in northern New Jersey, who admitted to The New Yorker’s Ryan Lizza in 2014, “Anybody who runs statewide has to come through us.”
It is impossible to rise in New Jersey politics without fostering relationships that will come back to haunt you.
Iraq and Goldman Sachs veteran Steven Fulop, the 38-year-old mayor of Jersey City, knows this firsthand.
“There is something about this state, whether it’s in the air or in the water or whatever it is, that just makes people more accepting of corrupt practices.”
Fulop is about as unlike a New Jersey politician as a person with a New Jersey accent could possibly be. He wears tasteful suits; he competes in Iron Man competitions; he expresses normal, human ambivalence about the field he has chosen. 
I last saw Fulop in February, on a chartered train from Jersey City to D.C. populated by drunk legislators and lobbyists, engaging in the sort of eyebrow-raising back-slapping deal-making that people from other states might do in smoke-filled rooms.
Not in New Jersey. There they do it in full view of the press, because what else are we supposed to expect?
Fulop, visibly uncomfortable, skeptically peered out the sides of his eyes as we spoke—while the intoxicated leaders of the Garden State bumped into and groped their way past us.
“I think if other legislators from other states could see [this train] they would think it’s very strange. Very strange,” he said. 
Fulop campaigned on finally ending the corruption that plagued the region of Jersey City since mayor Frank Hague sat behind his infamous desk—outfitted with a special drawer wherein people could deposit bribes—in the early 1900s.
Fulop’s slogan? “Enough.”
His challenger, incumbent Mayor Jerramiah Healy, had no vision, ties to some of the more corrupt members of the city, and perhaps most memorably, was known for wandering around on his porch completely naked. But Healy was machine-approved: Everyone from powerful state Democrats to President Obama had endorsed him. 
But Fulop did have one powerful friend: Menendez. 
Their relationship began as contentious (Fulop challenged Menendez for Congress—and lost—in 2004) but eventually grew warm.
And now Fulop, a potential gubernatorial candidate in 2017, is in the position of having to defend Menendez or lose a vital ally.
When the news of Menendez’s impending indictment came down, Fulop told the Jersey Journal’s Terrence McDonald he would “stand by my friend…anyone who is making assumptions about Bob Menendez based on a news story clearly doesn’t know the Senator.” (Interview requests from The Daily Beast to Fulop were not granted.)
New Jersey’s recent history is littered with cautionary tales of those who stuck around too long to avoid stumbling into catastrophe. 
By most accounts former governor Jim McGreevey was a world-class mayor when he served the town of Woodbridge from 1991 to 2002, but then he reached for the next brass ring. McGreevey went to Trenton, and it only took two years until he was forced to resign after installing his unqualified (secret) boyfriend as the state’s homeland security director. 
The current governor, Chris Christie, passed up a chance to run for president or vice president in 2012, as Republican Party leaders so desperately wanted, opting instead to run for a second term. That proved unwise ; he has been under investigation by the United States attorney for the last 15 months, after a member (or members) of his administration orchestrated the closure of lanes on the George Washington Bridge—the busiest bridge in the world—seemingly to torment a small-time Democratic mayor. Christie’s hopes of running for president in 2016 now appear grim. 
But let’s not forget that when Christie was the United States attorney from 2002 through 2009, he convicted more than 100 public officials. That’s more than one per month.
For every Menendez or McGreevey, there are dozens other small-ball crooks and creeps populating New Jersey’s public offices. Ingle told me what has struck him most about the type of corruption most commonly seen in the Garden State is how “how small the amount of bribery or thievery these people will be involved in.” 
Sometimes it’s as small as a quarter—or several tons of them. 
For a decade, Thomas Rica served as the public works inspector of Ridgewood, a quaint village of less than 25,000 in northern New Jersey. An artificially tanned 43-year-old with a politician’s head of wavy dark hair, Rica made $86,000 a year in the position—but he wanted more. 
Conveniently, Rica had a master key to Village Hall, which housed a coin-collection room full of buckets of quarters from parking meters. Rica would enter the room with the key, manipulate a security camera on the ceiling so that his act wouldn’t be filmed, and steal the coins by the fistful, sometimes $500 worth of coins at a time. 
He did this sometimes several times a week—for years. He would then bring the coins to multiple banks, where he had personal accounts. 
All told, Rica stole $460,000 in quarters. The Bergen Record  calculated such a haul weighed 11.25 tons, “the equivalent of three elephants, a single 84-passenger bus or nine Honda Civics.” In June 2014, Rica was sentenced to four years’ probation and ordered to pay the village back every last quarter. 
At his press conference, Menendez claimed investigators don’t know the difference between friendship and corruption—but the damning indictment suggests it is he who doesn’t know the difference.
The senator may not be so lucky, but then he probably should have seen this coming. 

