Politics
Politics
Ted Cruz and the first ad of the 2016 presidential campaign cycle
Last Updated Apr 3, 2015 2:00 PM EDT
Sen. Ted Cruz , R-Texas, the first declared major presidential candidate, is now launching the first campaign ad of the primary season.
The ad, which was cut together from excerpts of the announcement of his candidacy at Liberty University last week, links the role of Jesus Christ in his own life to his presidential ambitions. Here's the text:
"Were it not for the transformative love of Jesus Christ, I would've been raised by a single mom without my father in the house. God's blessing has been on America from the very beginning of this nation. Over and over again, when we faced impossible odds, the American people rose to the challenge. This is our fight, and that is why I'm running for president of the United States. I'm Ted Cruz and I approve this message."
Cruz's first buy is a small one - just $33,000 - but it's timed for holiest weekend of the year for religious conservatives and will play during Fox News Channel's airing of "Killing Jesus," adapted from Bill O'Reilly's bestselling book of the same name.
Cruz also purchased air time in the early-voting states of Iowa, South Carolina, and New Hampshire. It will run once during local airings of an NBC special, "A.D.: The Bible Continues," which is scheduled to air on Easter Sunday.
Though it's rare for a candidate to begin running ads this early in the election cycle, Cruz has made outreach to Christian conservatives a top priority . With the Republican's presidential announcement at Jerry Falwell's Liberty University campus , the ad buy further highlights his commitment to wooing the religious right.
Cruz will also be campaigning around South Carolina this Friday and Saturday, his second visit to the first southern primary state.
CBS News Political Editor Steve Chaggaris contributed to this report.
© 2015 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Watch CBSN Live
Watch CBS News anytime, anywhere with the new 24/7 digital news network.  Stream CBSN live or on demand for FREE on your TV, computer, tablet, or smartphone.
All rights reserved.

