/ Article
CARSON, CITY, Nev. -- The Bill Cosby fallout, continues in Nevada. A woman claiming to be one of his victims is the sounding voice for a bill signed into law, giving sexual assault victims more time to speak out.
"To all my girls, Cosby survivors, this is a win for all of us. we are making a difference," said Lise-Lotte Lublin.
Lublin says it's a dream come true to see the day come when rape victims in Nevada have their voices heard. The law in Nevada states: rape victims have four years to file a report of the crime. Tuesday, Assembly Bill 212 was signed into law, extending the time period five times the amount, to 20 years.
Lublin, one of several alleged rape victims of Bill Cosby says the comedian drugged and sexually assaulted her in Las Vegas back in 1989. However, under the law she was unable to seek proper justice.
"I had to find a way to let go of the pain that was inside of me and speaking about it helped me do that. Fighting for this law, fighting for the children that are going to grow up to have the freedom to report this within 20 years,that's incredible," she said.
The law, however, is not retroactive and time has run out for Lublin, but for victims in the future, it gives them another open door.
"It now opens it up wider and really gives more power to the victims and fewer rights to the wrongdoer, to the rapist, to the sexual predator," said Gloria Allred, an attorney for Lublin.
It's power that could have given Lublin justice many years ago. After a seven-month battle with Nevada legislators and years of backlash after she came forward with the allegations, the fight still isn't over.
"We'll take the 20 years, but am I happy? No," said Benjamin Lublin, her husband. "We stood out to abolish it and that's what we're going to do."
Thirteen states don't have a statute of limitations for prosecuting felony of sexual assault. For now, the Lublins plan to work toward sexual assault education and awareness.
Copyright © 2002-2015 - Designed by Gray Digital Media - Powered by Clickability   305116481 - kolotv.com/a?a=305116481
Website Policy
Public File Liaison:
Miriam Gonzales - 775-351-0214
Station Contact Info:

