Latest Headlines
Featured
Featured
Featured
Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 816-234-4470 or email obits@kcstar.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
The Associated Press
04/09/2015 5:26 PM
04/09/2015 5:26 PM
NEW YORK
Prosecutors are investigating the procurement process behind a contract awarded to Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones' company to operate the World Trade Center's observation deck.
Prosecutors from the office of Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. have subpoenaed records pertaining to "the procurement process for the award of the lease" for the three-floor deck at One World Trade Center, the nation's tallest building, according to a bond filing by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site and operates the building.
The Port Authority is controlled by Democratic New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Republican New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who's a Cowboys fan and a friend of Jones.
In March 2013, officials announced that Legends Hospitality LLC, co-owned by Jones, was selected from six proposals to operate the observation deck on floors 100, 101 and 102. The development includes a public space on the 100th floor, restaurants on the 101st floor and an event space on the 102nd floor of the 104-floor building.
Representatives from the Port Authority, which also operates area bridges, tunnels and transit hubs, didn't return a message seeking comment on Thursday. Manhattan prosecutors and Legends said they had no comment.
Christie, a potential 2016 presidential candidate, said in a January radio show he became friends with Jones in September 2013, six months after the observation deck contract was awarded. He called critics then "partisan hacks" and "aluminum-foil-on-their-head conspiracy theorists."
Representatives for Jones and Christie, who attended a playoff game against the Detroit Lions together and shared a victory hug, didn't immediately return messages seeking comment Thursday.
The Port Authority bond filing released Tuesday also details numerous other inquiries by various regulators and agencies, including from federal prosecutors in New Jersey, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, a New Jersey legislative committee and the state's ethics commission.
The Port Authority and Christie have come under increased scrutiny since lane closures near the George Washington Bridge in September 2013 caused traffic backups that apparently were ordered by administration officials for political retribution against the Democratic mayor of Fort Lee, New Jersey, after he didn't endorse Christie for re-election. Christie has denied any prior knowledge of the traffic scheme and called it "inexplicably stupid."
Related
Related
Join the Discussion
The Kansas City Star is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

