Taylor Swift Lands on Forbes’s ‘Most Powerful Women’ List!
Contributed by admin on May 26, 2015 at 8:04 pm
Well, it seems like ever since Tay Tay has ditched her fairytale stories and became more “herself” she’s boomed like no other.
The top spot was given to German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
At number two, Hillary Clinton is closing in on Angela Merkel. In addition to her cable network, OWN, she holds a stake in successful syndicated programs including “Dr. Phil, ” and through her Harpo Films helped produce the critically acclaimed “Selma”.
The 19 newcomers also include Bank of England deputy governor Nemat Shafik (66) and the new Guardian editor-in-chief Katharine Viner (80).
Forbes cites the success of Swift’s first venture into pop, 1989, as one of the reasons for her rise to the list. “In 2015 Clinton is No. 2, just a breath and a ballot away from the Most Powerful Woman crown”.
Number Eight… Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg. She is also, for the fourth year running, the highest placed woman in technology.
In total, seven Silicon Valley executives made it into the top 25.
Vogue’s Anna Wintour, 65, came in at number 28, followed by comedian and TV host Ellen DeGeneres, 57, at number 50 and actress Angelina Jolie, 39, at number 54. Women currently hold 23 (4.6 per cent) of CEO positions at S&P 500 companies, Forbes added. The only African-American woman on the Forbes “400 Richest Americans” list, she has donated hundreds of millions of dollars throughout the years to education.
Other female heads of state on the list included Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff (7), South Korean President Park Geun-hye (11, ) Argentinian President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner (16) and Polish Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, making her debut in the 40th spot.
Winfrey is one of 15 billionaires on the list this year, with a cumulative net worth of nearly $75 million. The power women control $1 trillion in annual revenues.
Hillary Clinton, former secretary of state and United States presidential candidate.
Oprah Winfrey, Beyonce And Angelina Jolie Among Forbes’ World’s
Recent Posts
Berdych rolls in French opener May 26, 2015
Copyright © 2015 Rapid News Network. All Rights Reserved.

