Sign Up
​Los Angeles has shut down 500 illegal pot shops in 2 years
Apr 9, 2015, 1:34pm PDT Updated: Apr 9, 2015, 1:47pm PDT
Thank you for sharing. Your email has been sent.
Email address of friend (insert comma between multiple addresses):
Your email address:
Photo by Scott Bridges
The marijuana “farmers market” in Boyle Heights was closed down as part of City Attorney Mike Feuer's efforts to crack down on pot shops in Los Angeles.
Staff L.A. Biz
Los Angeles, in its increased efforts to crack down on illegal pot shops, has closed more than 500 medical marijuana businesses across the city in less than two years, City Attorney Mike Feuer announced Thursday.
Feuer said many of those shops were close to schools, child care centers and other sensitive sites, while others were disrupting the quality of life in neighborhoods.
"Our office has an extremely effective partnership with law enforcement and neighborhood stakeholders, and we've gotten momentum in our effort aggressively to enforce the will of the voters who enacted Proposition D,” Feuer said in a statement .
Proposition D, the city's medical marijuana initiative, prohibits pot shops from operating within a certain distance from public parks, schools, child-care centers and other facilities and limits delivery of medical pot to patients' primary caregivers.
Since Feuer took office 21 months ago, the city said it has closed 503 medical marijuana businesses, including 94 closures in the Central Bureau, 76 in South Bureau, 224 in Valley Bureau and 109 in West Bureau.
The City Attorney’s Office also filed 245 criminal cases against 1,000 defendants. Criminal cases filed by the city attorney can be against both the business operators as well as the property owners.
In the past year, Feuer has also taken civil action, closing a medical marijuana “farmers market” in Boyle Heights in July 2014 and filing an injunction against smartphone medical marijuana delivery app Nestdrop in December.
In addition, the City Attorney’s Office said it has successfully litigated 40 challenges to Prop D.
Page 1
Comments
If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
Inside L.A. Biz
Director, Care Coordination (Case Management) Dignity Health - St. Mary Medical Center Long Beach | Long Beach, CA
Innovations Programs Consultant Tri City Mental Health Services | Pomona, CA
Store Manager 99 Cents Only Stores | Chino Hills, CA

