Stewart takes on new gun bill, assistance aid restrictions
Posted: April 10, 2015 - 9:25am
DAILY SHOW SCREENSHOT
Comedy Central's "The Daily Show" devoted the first eight minutes of its opening segment Thusday to a look at Kansas, a state host Jon Stewart said at one time was "the standard bearer for normalcy."
Related Stories
 
The state of Kansas got nearly eight minutes of national TV exposure Thursday night, but you won't see it promoted on the state’s tourism website.
Comedy Central’s “The Daily Show” devoted the first eight minutes of its opening segment to a look at Kansas, a state host Jon Stewart said at one time was “the standard bearer for normalcy.”
By the end of the segment, however, Stewart once again pilloried the state and Gov. Sam Brownback — always one of the liberal comedian's favorite foils — for abolishing the requirement to undergo gun training before a Kansan is allowed to carry a concealed weapon. He also roasted new regulations restricting what welfare recipients can purchase with their state assistance payment, restrictions established by a state itself takes more in federal assistance than it pays in federal taxes.
“That’s the fact, Kansas — you’re on the dole,” Stewart said.
Brownback, Stewart added, has “walked the walk of his conservative principles” and transformed the state into a land of “low taxes and deregulation — for everything.”
The repeal of a requirement to undergo eight hours of gun safety training before carrying a concealed weapon is only the latest example, Stewart said.
“That's eight hours you could have been shooting stuff,” he said, adding that Kansas cosmeticians have to undergo 1,000 hours of training.
“You can never be too careful with hot wax and (body) hair,” Stewart said.
Stewart cited Brownback's implicit trust in Kansans, saying the governor supported the new gun bill because Kansas gun owners have shown themselves to be responsible.
“No,” Stewart countered, “that's a reason you allow your children to get a hamster.”
He later lampooned a principal sponsor of the bill, saying Rep. Travis Coutour-Lovelady’s name was that of someone who should be selling “fancy hats in the French Quarter.”
But Kansas’ trust in its citizens goes only so far, Stewart said. Brownback’s move to cut taxes in 2012 came about because the good people of Kansas knew better how to spend their money than did the government, he noted.
“But what about the people of Kansas who aren’t good,” Stewart said. “You know, the poor ones.”
New restrictions on places where assistance money can be used include movie theaters, swimming pools, fortune telling businesses, cruises, theme parks and nail salons. Guns and ammunition, Stewart noted, are “a fun accessory” you can still buy with assistance money.
“You’re poor, but you’re still an American,” said Stewart, adding that poor Kansans should no longer plan on taking trips to “The Anything that Might Possibly Bring Joy Into Your Life” shopping mall.
The Brownback principal, Stewart said, “is that government has no right to tell you how to spend your money or hold your gun … until you’re on the dole.”
“At that point the government can step in and treat you like a bad child,” he said. “You didn’t recover from the national economic collapse? No movies! The government gets to tell you what you need.”
He cited figures from 2007-2009 showing that for every dollar Kansas spent on federal taxes, it received $1,29 back in federal payments.
“Remember,” Stewart observed, “the fact you're accepting government assistance shows you can't be trusted to make your decisions.”
“Kansas, these rules may seem petty and insulting, but maybe they’ll motivate you to escape your culture of federal dependency. Until then, let's see how you like being treated like the welfare queens you are.”
ADVISORY: Users are solely responsible for opinions they post here and for following agreed-upon rules of   civility. Posts and comments do not reflect the views of this site.   Posts and comments are automatically checked for inappropriate   language, but readers might find some comments offensive or   inaccurate. If you believe a comment violates our rules, click the   "Flag as offensive" link below the comment.

