Delivered To Your INBOX
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
Email Address
Laura ‘Shocked’ Barbara Bush Hesitant About A Jeb Bush Presidency
The Clintons aren’t the only political dynasty to be eyeing the White House in 2016. Jeb Bush is openly considering a run, and former first lady Laura Bush would supports him. Nevertheless, Jeb’s mother, Barbara, might not be completely sold.
ABC News ‘ Jonathan Karl caught Laura Bush for an interview on Wednesday, and asked what she thought of her mother-in-law’s discouraging comments preceding Jeb Bush’s presidential exploratory committee.
“I was shocked,” Laura answered.
Still, she won’t be bringing it up with the family’s matriarch.
“Do you think I would tell my mother-in-law something?”
They were referring to a 2013 Today interview with Barbara Bush, where she said the country has had enough Bushes in the White House.
“I think it’s a great country. There are a lot of great families, and it’s not just four families or whatever. There are other people out there that are very qualified, and we’ve had enough Bushes.”
Shortly after that interview, Jeb Bush started stepping up his potential 2016 presidential run.
Barbara Bush had a subsequent change of heart, according to the Huffington Post , sending out a fundraising email to potential donors.
“When the idea of Jeb running for President first came up, I was hesitant. You may have heard about that. When you see the pounding candidates, their spouses, and even their children take, what mother wouldn’t be? But our problems are so profound that America needs a leader who can renew the promise of this great nation.”
Of course, Laura Bush was unequivocal in her support of her brother-in-law, if he does choose to run.
The past few weeks have been big for the distant 2016 president race. Ted Cruz was the first person to announce his candidacy, followed by Rand Paul.
Hillary Clinton is the latest confirmed contender, starting a media frenzy with her YouTube video announcement called “ Getting Started .”
Jeb Bush has been making some small moves, as well.
As previously reported by the Inquisitr , Jeb Bush seemed like he was shoring up support from the conservative base by speaking at an NRA leadership conference.
He’ll likely need all the help he can get, now that Hillary Clinton announced her candidacy. Real Clear Politics has her 50 points above some of the most popular Democrats in a hypothetical party nomination race.
There’s still a long time before the 2016 presidential campaign, but Jeb Bush will likely need the support of his entire family, including his mother, to win in the end.
[Image Credit: Getty Images]
Comments
Delivered To Your INBOX
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
Email Address

