CCTV.com
05-26-2015 19:34 BJT
Font size:
China will build two multi-functional lighthouses on Huayang Reef and Chigua Reef of the Nansha Islands in the South China Sea. When answering a question on the issue on Tuesday, a spokesperson for the Foreign Ministry said the major aim of all construction work on the Nansha Islands is to help China better fulfill its international responsibilities and obligations in fields such as maritime search and rescue, navigational security, and fishery services.
"The South China Sea is an important international maritime transport route as well as a major fishing ground. A large number of fishing vessels operate in this area all year round, and the situation on the sea is also very complicated. Maritime traffic accidents occur now and then. And the lighthouses' construction on Huayang Reef and Chigua Reef is a significant step toward China's related international responsibilities and obligations. It will provide efficient navigation services to passing vessels and greatly improve the navigational safety in the South China Sea. China will build more civil facilities on the Nansha Islands to provide better services to countries in the region and vessels passing there," said Hua Chunying, spokesperson of Chinese Foreign Ministry.
Groundbreaking ceremony held for lighthouses
China's Ministry of Transport on Tuesday also hosted a groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of the two lighthouses on Huayang Reef and Chigua Reef. The design of the two lighthouses will integrate elements of traditional Chinese culture. Lanterns measuring 4.5 meters in diameter will be installed on the two 50-meter-high lighthouses. And they are designed to have a light range of 22 nautical miles.
Related Videos
Related Articles
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Instagram
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Wechat
We Recommend
The Kucha Grottos Part 1
China’s 30th Parallel Part 54
Snacking away around China Part 3
Travelling Along the Silk Road Part 2
A stroll in Ejin
Luzhou's taste of intoxication
Tag Cloud
Copyright © 2015 China Central Television. All Rights Reserved

