   
Kyrie Irving to play and start tonight for Cavs in Game 4
Irving will be monitored as game progresses after he missed the previous two with left knee tendinitis.
Comment
CLEVELAND
Cavaliers point guard Kyrie Irving will play tonight in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Atlanta Hawks. Cleveland has an opportunity to sweep the Hawks and advance to its second NBA Finals appearance in franchise history.
Irving missed the last two games because of left knee tendinitis. The Cavs had considered the three-time All-Star a game-time decision for tonight. He went through pre-game warm-ups and was evaluated before being cleared to play.
The team will monitor him closely throughout the game, but he is not under a minutes restriction.
Irving has been working out with Cavaliers player development coach Phil Handy extensively. He participated in shootaround more with his teammates this morning than he had in recent days.
“It was good. It was a lot of fun,” Cavs guard Iman Shumpert said of having Irving on the floor as the team prepared. “We’re just happy for him that he can move around without the grimacing with every step he takes. So we’ll see how he fares tonight.”
Said LeBron James about Irving, “He looked OK. How great he feels? I’m not quite sure. Only he would know that.”
James is battling his own aches and pains. He said he will play tonight.
“Do I feel great? No,” he said. “But I feel good enough to go out and make an impact hopefully for my teammates.”
Irving played in a career-high 75 games this regular season and earned third-team All-NBA status after averaging 21.7 points a game. The Cavs went 1-6 without him in the regular season but are 2-0 this postseason without him.
Irving has not missed three straight games at any point this season, which was lengthened by him playing for Team USA and earning MVP of the FIBA World Cup in August and September.
Irving has battled a right foot sprain since Game 2 of the Cavs’ first-round series against Boston. In compensating for that injury, the left knee tendinitis developed.
Irving averaged 24.0 points on 44.6 percent shooting in his first six playoff games. In the last five, he averaged 12.8 points on 39.2 percent shooting.
Irving had not missed a playoff game before Game 2 in Atlanta. But he had been laboring for a while on the knee, which caused the team to take him to see renowned orthopedic surgeon Dr. James Andrews on Friday. Irving’s diagnosis of tendinitis was confirmed by Andrews.
The Cavs have maintained that the status of their series with the Hawks would not affect their decision to play or not play Irving.
“We need Kyrie on the court, and we're not really thinking about resting him as much as we're thinking about him being healthy to play basketball,” Cavs head coach David Blatt said after practice Monday. “We need him on the court, whether we're up 1 0 or 2 1 or 3 0. That doesn't really mean anything because this is the conference finals. There's not a lot of time, and there's not a lot of room for error.”
Page 2 of 2 - Reach Josh at josh.weir@cantonrep.com
On Twitter: @jweirREP
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
The Independent | Massillon, OH 44648

