Milan Station shares stumble in Hong Kong market, but Zijin Mining jumps | South China Morning Post
MARKETS
Milan Station shares stumble in Hong Kong market, but Zijin Mining jumps
PUBLISHED : Wednesday, 27 May, 2015, 1:40pm
UPDATED : Wednesday, 27 May, 2015, 2:00pm
Benjamin Robertson
The copper mine of Zijin Mining, whose shares jumped in Hong Kong on Wednesday after reports it was raising capital to fund purchase of mining assets. Photo: AFP
Second hand accessories retailer Milan Station posted the biggest fall in percentage terms in Hong Kong’s equity market on Wednesday after news that the firm’s controlling shareholder dumped 16.61 per cent of issued shares to undisclosed third parties.
Milan Station shares fell 17.7 per cent to HK$1.86 per share on Wednesday morning. The stock has risen 190.63 per cent year to date and hit a high of HK$2.6 a share on May 21.
On the other hand, Zijin Mining jumped 15.72 per cent to HK$3.46 a share on news the firm was raising up to 10 billion yuan in new capital to help purchase US$ 710m worth of overseas mining assets.
Zijin had the second highest turnover among Wednesday’s gainers.
On Tuesday, Zijin Mining Group said it will buy US$710 million worth of gold and copper mining assets from two Canadian companies in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Papua New Guinea with funds raised through a private placement in the Shanghai stock market.
Zijin told the Shanghai and Hong Kong stock exchanges it would buy a 49.5 per cent stake in the Kamoa copper project in the Democratic Republic of Congo from Ivanhoe Mines for US$412 million. 
Another metal related firm, China Silver Group, leapt 11.3 per cent to HK$ 5.91 a share after the company raised net proceeds of HK$ 76.3 million from a group of investors including Chinese state-owned insurers PICC Group and China Export and Import Insurance. The firm’s share price went up fivefold in the past year.
Market reaction to capital raising announcements has reversed, said Ivan Lee, equity analyst at Tung Shing Securities. Normally stocks fall when companies raise new capital because it dilutes shares.
“Investors now think the share price is performing well and the company will make more acquisitions,” he said.
 
Among the blue chips, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing slid 1.03 per cent to HK$ 306.2, reversing some of Tuesday’s surge that pushed the stock to a record close.
 
Send to a friend
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here .
Article to be sent:
To: *
From: *
SCMP.com SCMP Tablet Edition SCMP Mobile Edition 10-year news archive

