2h
Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Play1:20
After review, the NBA elected not to suspend Houston Rockets center Dwight Howard for Game 5 of the Western Conference finals, the league announced Tuesday.
Jason Miller/Getty Images
The resale market for Game 4 in Cleveland, where the Cavaliers can claim the Eastern Conference title for only the second time in their history, is softer than expected.
Brett Davis/USA TODAY Sports
Hawks guard Kyle Korver will have surgery on his right ankle on Wednesday afternoon in New York.
Play1:02
Rockets coach Kevin McHale said Tuesday nearly the entire team arrived safely at their homes following Monday's Game 4 of the Western Conference finals after severe storms battered the area.
Play0:46
19h
Warriors star Stephen Curry missed the equivalent of a quarter after taking a hard fall on his head, neck and back area near the basket in the second quarter of Monday night's Game 4.
Bob DeChiara/USA TODAY Sports
Cleveland Cavaliers forward Kevin Love has been cleared to resume traveling with the team for the remainder of the postseason after having his left shoulder re-evaluated.
Play2:09
8h
He's arguably the most important role player in the Cavs' playoff push, but what do we really know about Tristan Thompson? Dave McMenamin steps inside the mind of Cleveland's big man.
3 Related
1h
Twin brothers Brook and Robin Lopez will co-host three specials featuring funny moments involving NBA players on and off the court.
AP Photo/Ted S. Warren
4h
The investor attempting to build a new basketball and hockey arena in Seattle says his group has yet to be presented with a plan that would have a hockey franchise as the first occupant..
AP Photo/Chris Carlson
DeAndre Jordan represents the Mavericks' last hope to put a championship-caliber team together around Dirk Nowitzki before he retires.
Play4:00
10h
After a woeful Game 3, James Harden focused his frustrations on Golden State to deliver his best playoff performance and keep Houston's series hopes alive.
3 Related
5hChris Forsberg
Is James Young ready to fight for a rotation role in his sophomore season?
Play0:14
5hDavid Auguste
We interrupt the stellar NBA playoffs to bring you more of Zach LaVine's insane hops.
Jayne Kamin-Oncea/USA TODAY Sports
4hBaxter Holmes
The Lakers kicked off what's expected to be a weeks-long evaluation process ahead of the June 25 NBA draft.
Elsa/Getty Images
11h
Without too many offeseason options, what are the Nets' summer plans? Marc Stein and Mike Mazzeo offer five burning questions about the future in Brooklyn.
3 Related
CLEVELAND -- Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving  started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Irving sat out Cleveland's wins in Games 2 and 3 with tendinitis. He tested the knee during the morning shootaround and again before tip-off. The Cavs announced he would play about 30 minutes before the start.
The Cavs said Irving, who is now wearing a brace, will be monitored during the game. The Cavs have a 3-0 lead in the best-of-seven series.
In the opener, Irving scored 10 points and had six assists in 27 minutes. He only played 12 minutes in the Cavs' series-clinching win in Chicago on May 14. He tweaked his knee in that game and Matthew Dellavedova started the next games at point guard.
Irving has also been slowed by a sprained right foot sustained in the opening round against Boston.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
0 Shares


 
 
Tue, 26 May 2015  8:07 PM ET
Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving has been cleared and will start in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Hawks, the team announced.
However, Irving will be limited in terms of minutes on the court, according to Yahoo! Sports .
Irving has been dealing with knee tendinitis that forced him to miss the previous two games against the Hawks. He will be placed on a 25-minute restriction. This means Matthew Dellavedova should still see plenty of playing time.
May 26, 2015 9:07 PM
May 24, 2015 6:54 PM
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(8:07 pm ET) Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving  has been cleared and will start in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Hawks, the team announced. 
However, Irving will be limited in terms of minutes on the court, according to Yahoo! Sports . 
Irving has been dealing with knee tendinitis that forced him to miss the previous two games against the Hawks. He will be placed on a 25-minute restriction. This means Matthew Dellavedova should still see plenty of playing time. 
NBA confirms Flagrant 1 call for Rockets C Dwight Howard
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(7:28 pm ET) The NBA has confirmed that Rockets center Dwight Howard 's foul on Andrew Bogut in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals was a Flagrant 1.
This means Howard will not be subject to any further discipline and will not be suspended. 
Howard fouled Bogut with what appeared to be an elbow above the shoulders. Howard is averaging 16.2 points and 13.9 rebounds during the playoffs. He's recorded three consecutive double-doubles.
Report: Hawks' Paul Millsap might need shoulder surgery
by Shawn Krest | CBSSports.com
(7:19 pm ET) Hawks forward Paul Millsap  may need shoulder surgery during the offseason, according to a report by Bleacher Report .
Millsap is battling a sprained right shoulder. It kept him out of five games during the regular season and has slowed him during the playoffs. 
Millsap averaged 16.7 points and 7.8 rebounds this year. 
Report: Cavs G Kyrie Irving will play in Game 4
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(6:09 pm ET) It appears likely that Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving will suit up and play in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Hawks on Tuesday, according to Yahoo! Sports . 
Irving has missed the past two games due to left knee tendinitis. However, the Cavaliers have been able to overcome the loss of Irving and hold a 3-0 lead over the Hawks. 
Irving has been considered a game-time decision. 
Hawks G Kyle Korver to have surgery on injured ankle
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(6:01 pm ET) Hawks guard Kyle Korver is set for ankle surgery on Wednesday , according to TNT NBA analyst David Aldridge. 
Korver suffered a severe high ankle sprain in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference Finals against the Cavaliers and will not be able to return to the postseason. This season, Korver averaged 12.1 points per game. 
The Hawks trail the Cavaliers 3-0 in the series. 
GM: Cavaliers PF Kevin Love cleared to travel with team
by Marty Gitlin | CBSSports.com
(1:59 pm ET) Cavaliers general manager David Griffin has announced that Cavaliers injured forward Kevin Love has gained permission from medical personnel to travel with the team, per ESPN.
Love, who is out for the remainder of the postseason with a shoulder injury sustained in the first round of the playoffs against Boston, received the clearance after having it re-evaluated. He has shed the sling used to stablize the shoulder.
He rejoined the team Sunday for Game 3 of the Eastern Conference finals in Cleveland.
Rockets not expecting further punishment for Dwight Howard foul
by Brandon Wise | CBSSports.com
Howard fouled Bogut hard in Game 4 above the shoulders and was given a Flagrant 1.
"He just tried to get off a hold," McHale said. "The second foul always gets called. He swiped his arm back, it's not like he turned on him. It's been that way forever in this league. The second one always gets called."
Howard is averaging 16.2 points and 13.9 rebounds per game in the playoffs and has recorded three consecutive double-doubles.
Rockets guard Jason Terry will return next season
by Brandon Wise | CBSSports.com
Terry, who is set to become a free agent this offseason, was asked after the game if he is considering playing again in 2015-16.
"One hundred percent," Terry said before Monday's tipoff.
Terry averaged 7.0 points and 1.9 assists per game in the regular season.
Warriors big man Marreese Speights seeks return for finals
by Marty Gitlin | CBSSports.com
(9:12 am ET) Warriors backup center/forward Marreese Speights , who missed his seventh playoff game with a right calf sprain, plans to be back by the start of the NBA Finals on June 4, assuming his team advances, per the Contra Costa Times.
Speights only averaged 7.6 minutes per game in seven playoff games before going down. He played 17 minutes per game in the regular season.
Warriors F Draymond Green doubles up in loss to Rockets
by Jason Butt | CBSSports.com
(5/25/2015) Warriors forward Draymond Green posted a double-double in Monday night's 128-115 loss to the Rockets in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals. 
Green scored 21 points on 9-of-13 shooting from the field. He also brought down 15 rebounds and recorded four assists. Green made two of his five three-point attempts as well. 
This is Green's 10th double-double of the postseason and second in a row. 
 

