2h
Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Play1:20
After review, the NBA elected not to suspend Houston Rockets center Dwight Howard for Game 5 of the Western Conference finals, the league announced Tuesday.
Jason Miller/Getty Images
The resale market for Game 4 in Cleveland, where the Cavaliers can claim the Eastern Conference title for only the second time in their history, is softer than expected.
Brett Davis/USA TODAY Sports
Hawks guard Kyle Korver will have surgery on his right ankle on Wednesday afternoon in New York.
Play1:02
Rockets coach Kevin McHale said Tuesday nearly the entire team arrived safely at their homes following Monday's Game 4 of the Western Conference finals after severe storms battered the area.
Play0:46
19h
Warriors star Stephen Curry missed the equivalent of a quarter after taking a hard fall on his head, neck and back area near the basket in the second quarter of Monday night's Game 4.
Bob DeChiara/USA TODAY Sports
Cleveland Cavaliers forward Kevin Love has been cleared to resume traveling with the team for the remainder of the postseason after having his left shoulder re-evaluated.
Play2:09
8h
He's arguably the most important role player in the Cavs' playoff push, but what do we really know about Tristan Thompson? Dave McMenamin steps inside the mind of Cleveland's big man.
3 Related
1h
Twin brothers Brook and Robin Lopez will co-host three specials featuring funny moments involving NBA players on and off the court.
AP Photo/Ted S. Warren
4h
The investor attempting to build a new basketball and hockey arena in Seattle says his group has yet to be presented with a plan that would have a hockey franchise as the first occupant..
AP Photo/Chris Carlson
DeAndre Jordan represents the Mavericks' last hope to put a championship-caliber team together around Dirk Nowitzki before he retires.
Play4:00
10h
After a woeful Game 3, James Harden focused his frustrations on Golden State to deliver his best playoff performance and keep Houston's series hopes alive.
3 Related
5hChris Forsberg
Is James Young ready to fight for a rotation role in his sophomore season?
Play0:14
5hDavid Auguste
We interrupt the stellar NBA playoffs to bring you more of Zach LaVine's insane hops.
Jayne Kamin-Oncea/USA TODAY Sports
4hBaxter Holmes
The Lakers kicked off what's expected to be a weeks-long evaluation process ahead of the June 25 NBA draft.
Elsa/Getty Images
11h
Without too many offeseason options, what are the Nets' summer plans? Marc Stein and Mike Mazzeo offer five burning questions about the future in Brooklyn.
3 Related
CLEVELAND -- Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving  started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Irving sat out Cleveland's wins in Games 2 and 3 with tendinitis. He tested the knee during the morning shootaround and again before tip-off. The Cavs announced he would play about 30 minutes before the start.
The Cavs said Irving, who is now wearing a brace, will be monitored during the game. The Cavs have a 3-0 lead in the best-of-seven series.
In the opener, Irving scored 10 points and had six assists in 27 minutes. He only played 12 minutes in the Cavs' series-clinching win in Chicago on May 14. He tweaked his knee in that game and Matthew Dellavedova started the next games at point guard.
Irving has also been slowed by a sprained right foot sustained in the opening round against Boston.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
0 Shares


   
Kyrie Irving to play and start tonight for Cavs in Game 4
Irving will be monitored as game progresses after he missed the previous two with left knee tendinitis.
Comment
CLEVELAND
Cavaliers point guard Kyrie Irving will play tonight in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Atlanta Hawks. Cleveland has an opportunity to sweep the Hawks and advance to its second NBA Finals appearance in franchise history.
Irving missed the last two games because of left knee tendinitis. The Cavs had considered the three-time All-Star a game-time decision for tonight. He went through pre-game warm-ups and was evaluated before being cleared to play.
The team will monitor him closely throughout the game, but he is not under a minutes restriction.
Irving has been working out with Cavaliers player development coach Phil Handy extensively. He participated in shootaround more with his teammates this morning than he had in recent days.
“It was good. It was a lot of fun,” Cavs guard Iman Shumpert said of having Irving on the floor as the team prepared. “We’re just happy for him that he can move around without the grimacing with every step he takes. So we’ll see how he fares tonight.”
Said LeBron James about Irving, “He looked OK. How great he feels? I’m not quite sure. Only he would know that.”
James is battling his own aches and pains. He said he will play tonight.
“Do I feel great? No,” he said. “But I feel good enough to go out and make an impact hopefully for my teammates.”
Irving played in a career-high 75 games this regular season and earned third-team All-NBA status after averaging 21.7 points a game. The Cavs went 1-6 without him in the regular season but are 2-0 this postseason without him.
Irving has not missed three straight games at any point this season, which was lengthened by him playing for Team USA and earning MVP of the FIBA World Cup in August and September.
Irving has battled a right foot sprain since Game 2 of the Cavs’ first-round series against Boston. In compensating for that injury, the left knee tendinitis developed.
Irving averaged 24.0 points on 44.6 percent shooting in his first six playoff games. In the last five, he averaged 12.8 points on 39.2 percent shooting.
Irving had not missed a playoff game before Game 2 in Atlanta. But he had been laboring for a while on the knee, which caused the team to take him to see renowned orthopedic surgeon Dr. James Andrews on Friday. Irving’s diagnosis of tendinitis was confirmed by Andrews.
The Cavs have maintained that the status of their series with the Hawks would not affect their decision to play or not play Irving.
“We need Kyrie on the court, and we're not really thinking about resting him as much as we're thinking about him being healthy to play basketball,” Cavs head coach David Blatt said after practice Monday. “We need him on the court, whether we're up 1 0 or 2 1 or 3 0. That doesn't really mean anything because this is the conference finals. There's not a lot of time, and there's not a lot of room for error.”
Page 2 of 2 - Reach Josh at josh.weir@cantonrep.com
On Twitter: @jweirREP
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
The Independent | Massillon, OH 44648

