2h
Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Play1:20
After review, the NBA elected not to suspend Houston Rockets center Dwight Howard for Game 5 of the Western Conference finals, the league announced Tuesday.
Jason Miller/Getty Images
The resale market for Game 4 in Cleveland, where the Cavaliers can claim the Eastern Conference title for only the second time in their history, is softer than expected.
Brett Davis/USA TODAY Sports
Hawks guard Kyle Korver will have surgery on his right ankle on Wednesday afternoon in New York.
Play1:02
Rockets coach Kevin McHale said Tuesday nearly the entire team arrived safely at their homes following Monday's Game 4 of the Western Conference finals after severe storms battered the area.
Play0:46
19h
Warriors star Stephen Curry missed the equivalent of a quarter after taking a hard fall on his head, neck and back area near the basket in the second quarter of Monday night's Game 4.
Bob DeChiara/USA TODAY Sports
Cleveland Cavaliers forward Kevin Love has been cleared to resume traveling with the team for the remainder of the postseason after having his left shoulder re-evaluated.
Play2:09
8h
He's arguably the most important role player in the Cavs' playoff push, but what do we really know about Tristan Thompson? Dave McMenamin steps inside the mind of Cleveland's big man.
3 Related
1h
Twin brothers Brook and Robin Lopez will co-host three specials featuring funny moments involving NBA players on and off the court.
AP Photo/Ted S. Warren
4h
The investor attempting to build a new basketball and hockey arena in Seattle says his group has yet to be presented with a plan that would have a hockey franchise as the first occupant..
AP Photo/Chris Carlson
DeAndre Jordan represents the Mavericks' last hope to put a championship-caliber team together around Dirk Nowitzki before he retires.
Play4:00
10h
After a woeful Game 3, James Harden focused his frustrations on Golden State to deliver his best playoff performance and keep Houston's series hopes alive.
3 Related
5hChris Forsberg
Is James Young ready to fight for a rotation role in his sophomore season?
Play0:14
5hDavid Auguste
We interrupt the stellar NBA playoffs to bring you more of Zach LaVine's insane hops.
Jayne Kamin-Oncea/USA TODAY Sports
4hBaxter Holmes
The Lakers kicked off what's expected to be a weeks-long evaluation process ahead of the June 25 NBA draft.
Elsa/Getty Images
11h
Without too many offeseason options, what are the Nets' summer plans? Marc Stein and Mike Mazzeo offer five burning questions about the future in Brooklyn.
3 Related
CLEVELAND -- Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving  started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Irving sat out Cleveland's wins in Games 2 and 3 with tendinitis. He tested the knee during the morning shootaround and again before tip-off. The Cavs announced he would play about 30 minutes before the start.
The Cavs said Irving, who is now wearing a brace, will be monitored during the game. The Cavs have a 3-0 lead in the best-of-seven series.
In the opener, Irving scored 10 points and had six assists in 27 minutes. He only played 12 minutes in the Cavs' series-clinching win in Chicago on May 14. He tweaked his knee in that game and Matthew Dellavedova started the next games at point guard.
Irving has also been slowed by a sprained right foot sustained in the opening round against Boston.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
0 Shares


Brett Davis-USA TODAY Sports
The Cavaliers' star has improved to the point where he will suit up in Game 4 against the Hawks after missing the last two contests.
Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving will return in Game 4 against the Atlanta Hawks after missing two contests with a knee injury, according to TNT's Rachel Nichols. Irving has been battling left knee and foot pain all postseason and it finally became too much after Game 1, but he will return to the court with the Cavaliers one win away from the NBA Finals .
Irving was listed as questionable before the game. The team's medical staff preferred he have "repeated good days" before letting him return to game action, which evidently has happened.
Irving earned Third Team All-NBA status after another superlative regular season, but has not been himself since midway through the Cavaliers' second-round series win over the Chicago Bulls . He played just 27 minutes in Game 1 of the series against the Hawks before sitting out. Backup Matthew Dellavedova has shined in his absence, nailing timely three-pointers and playing tough defense.
More from SBNation.com
9:46p
1:08p 17 comments
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot password?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Forgot username?
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Almost done,
By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .
Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.
We have our own Community Guidelines at SBNation.com. You should read them.
I Agree to the Community Guidelines
Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.
We have our own Community Guidelines at SBNation.com. You should read them.
I Agree to the Community Guidelines
Authenticating
Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.
In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
Yes, share my data

