2h
Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Play1:20
After review, the NBA elected not to suspend Houston Rockets center Dwight Howard for Game 5 of the Western Conference finals, the league announced Tuesday.
Jason Miller/Getty Images
The resale market for Game 4 in Cleveland, where the Cavaliers can claim the Eastern Conference title for only the second time in their history, is softer than expected.
Brett Davis/USA TODAY Sports
Hawks guard Kyle Korver will have surgery on his right ankle on Wednesday afternoon in New York.
Play1:02
Rockets coach Kevin McHale said Tuesday nearly the entire team arrived safely at their homes following Monday's Game 4 of the Western Conference finals after severe storms battered the area.
Play0:46
19h
Warriors star Stephen Curry missed the equivalent of a quarter after taking a hard fall on his head, neck and back area near the basket in the second quarter of Monday night's Game 4.
Bob DeChiara/USA TODAY Sports
Cleveland Cavaliers forward Kevin Love has been cleared to resume traveling with the team for the remainder of the postseason after having his left shoulder re-evaluated.
Play2:09
8h
He's arguably the most important role player in the Cavs' playoff push, but what do we really know about Tristan Thompson? Dave McMenamin steps inside the mind of Cleveland's big man.
3 Related
1h
Twin brothers Brook and Robin Lopez will co-host three specials featuring funny moments involving NBA players on and off the court.
AP Photo/Ted S. Warren
4h
The investor attempting to build a new basketball and hockey arena in Seattle says his group has yet to be presented with a plan that would have a hockey franchise as the first occupant..
AP Photo/Chris Carlson
DeAndre Jordan represents the Mavericks' last hope to put a championship-caliber team together around Dirk Nowitzki before he retires.
Play4:00
10h
After a woeful Game 3, James Harden focused his frustrations on Golden State to deliver his best playoff performance and keep Houston's series hopes alive.
3 Related
5hChris Forsberg
Is James Young ready to fight for a rotation role in his sophomore season?
Play0:14
5hDavid Auguste
We interrupt the stellar NBA playoffs to bring you more of Zach LaVine's insane hops.
Jayne Kamin-Oncea/USA TODAY Sports
4hBaxter Holmes
The Lakers kicked off what's expected to be a weeks-long evaluation process ahead of the June 25 NBA draft.
Elsa/Getty Images
11h
Without too many offeseason options, what are the Nets' summer plans? Marc Stein and Mike Mazzeo offer five burning questions about the future in Brooklyn.
3 Related
CLEVELAND -- Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving  started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Irving sat out Cleveland's wins in Games 2 and 3 with tendinitis. He tested the knee during the morning shootaround and again before tip-off. The Cavs announced he would play about 30 minutes before the start.
The Cavs said Irving, who is now wearing a brace, will be monitored during the game. The Cavs have a 3-0 lead in the best-of-seven series.
In the opener, Irving scored 10 points and had six assists in 27 minutes. He only played 12 minutes in the Cavs' series-clinching win in Chicago on May 14. He tweaked his knee in that game and Matthew Dellavedova started the next games at point guard.
Irving has also been slowed by a sprained right foot sustained in the opening round against Boston.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
0 Shares


Cubs third baseman Kris Bryant rocks a home run to left field versus the Nationals.
Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images
Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Play1:20
3hBrian Windhorst
After review, the NBA elected not to suspend Houston Rockets center Dwight Howard for Game 5 of the Western Conference finals, the league announced Tuesday.
Play2:06
Former New Orleans Saints receiver Joe Horn dislikes hugs between draft selections and NFL commissioner Roger Goodell, who he likens to "the devil."
Play2:37
1hTerry Blount
Seahawks coach Pete Carroll would not speak directly about the contract negotiations with quarterback Russell Wilson, but Carroll did say Tuesday he and Wilson have had good conversations.
Play3:03
Colin Kaepernick, who has nearly 755,000 Twitter followers and 1.3 million followers on Instagram, deleted and apologized Tuesday for a post that trivialized deadly floods in the Houston area.
Play3:26
Philadelphia Phillies general manager Ruben Amaro says that fans who don't understand the team's methodical approach to turning the franchise around "don't understand the game."
Play1:02
4hCalvin Watkins
Rockets coach Kevin McHale said Tuesday nearly the entire team arrived safely at their homes following Monday's Game 4 of the Western Conference finals after severe storms battered the area.
Scott Audette/NHLI via Getty Images
6hDavid Purdum
Two economists have shown that the point spread plays a significant role in viewing interest, at times producing 30 percent spikes in TV ratings on noncompetitive games.
Play0:56
3hGreg Garber
We're only one round into the French Open, but Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal are that much closer to a blockbuster battle with all kinds of legacy implications.
1 Related
7h
The start of the 2015 season is 100 days away. Here are 100 things we can't wait to see, starting with Jim Harbaugh's return to Michigan.
1 Related
There's absolutely no excuse for laying into your fans like Philadelphia Phillies GM Ruben Amaro did.
Christian Petersen/Getty Images
Which golfer will win this week's AT&T Byron Nelson? Aussie Marc Leishman seems to be the trendy pick among our experts.
Play2:07
9hKevin Seifert
Chicago won't take a cap hit for cutting Ray McDonald, but it will bear some responsibility. A fine, albeit not a substantial one, is on the horizon.
Play1:00
5hMissy Isaacson
Athletes from across the United States are set to compete in this summer's Special Olympics World Games, and that dream became a reality for many because of Unified Sports.
Bruce Bennett/Getty Images
A look back at the week that was in photos.
May 26, 2015, 10:11 PM ET
Bryant ties Cubs up
Bryant ties Cubs up
Cubs third baseman Kris Bryant rocks a home run to left field versus the Nationals.
Sponsored Headlines

