Daily News AUGUSTA, Maine – &nbspMaine became the regional wind energy leader below Democratic Gov. John Baldacci, but modify is in the air as Gov. Paul LePage makes an aggressive push away from his predecessor's renewable energy policies. The outspoken Republican,...
With sights set on lower electrical energy rates, LePage looks to transform Maine power landscape
AUGUSTA, Maine – &nbspMaine became the regional wind energy leader below Democratic Gov. John Baldacci, but modify is in the air as Gov. Paul LePage makes an aggressive push away from his predecessor's renewable energy policies. The outspoken Republican,...
AUGUSTA, Maine – &nbspMaine became the regional wind energy leader below Democratic Gov. John Baldacci, but modify is in the air as Gov. Paul LePage makes an aggressive push away from his predecessor's renewable energy policies.
The outspoken Republican, who says wind power is also pricey, is searching to hydropower from Canada and organic gas to bring down electricity rates that are among the highest in the nation.
Whilst several of LePage's previous energy efforts have fallen flat, he will have an opportunity to strengthen his influence this spring when he replaces the final remaining Democratic appointee to the agency that regulates the state's utilities.
But he faces resistance from the state's effective environmental lobby, which believes LePage's tendency to favor only the least expensive types of power nowadays could be costly in the lengthy run.
"His energy policy in no way reflects the truth that we have to make a clear transition away from fossil fuels — such as organic gas — toward a one hundred % clean power economy," stated Glen Brand, director of the Sierra Club Maine.
Baldacci designed aggressive wind energy ambitions and streamlined the permitting course of action for projects to generate building jobs and assistance wean the state off fossil fuels. But LePage and other critics say these efforts have not aided a state that's struggling to attract investment.
The state presently generates about 500 megawatts of electricity from wind — or sufficient to energy about 175,500 homes — well short of Baldacci's aim to have 2,000 megawatts by now.
Industry officials tout polls that show help for wind power right here remains higher. But its development has been slowed by LePage, his critics say, and opposition from residents near wind web pages who be concerned the structures will be noisy and unsightly.
The governor desires to move Maine as an alternative toward a higher reliance on hydropower and is again pushing to modify the state's policies to facilitate the acquire of energy from massive-scale projects in Canada. His administration is also launching a different bid to revamp the state's renewable targets to include the aim of decrease cost to ratepayers.
"If these (wind) projects are going to come, I want them to advantage the men and women who are most affected by it," said Patrick Woodcock, director of the Governor's Energy Workplace.
A reshaped Public Utilities Commission could help LePage realize his second-term energy efforts. When Baldacci appointee David Littell is replaced in the coming weeks, all 3 regulators will be LePage appointees.
Critics have accused LePage of meddling in the commission's matters in an attempt to derail wind projects.
Regulators voted in February to reconsider their earlier decision to grant contracts to two wind projects after LePage had urged the panel to take into account proposals from existing sources — like nuclear and hydropower — before approving the wind bargains. The governor's appointees to the commission insist LePage didn't attempt to influence their decision.
The move followed LePage's effective push to get the PUC to reopen the bidding course of action for offshore wind projects in 2013 right after it had already made a deal with Norwegian organization, Statoil. That caused Statoil to withdraw its $120 million proposed project off Maine's coast.
Sector officials say LePage's opposition to wind could end up costing ratepayers. Regulators have estimated that these two onshore projects could save ratepayers as a great deal as $70 million over the course of the 20- and 25-year contracts.
Whomever LePage appoints to the commission will take into consideration a proposal to charge ratepayers $75 million a year to expand organic gas pipeline capacity in New England, which has been a top rated priority for the governor.
All-natural gas is abundant in the Marcellus Shale region, but limited pipeline capacity in New England drives up prices for consumers right here.
When the Democratic-controlled Legislature authorized the bill in 2013 directing regulators to contemplate the organic gas expansion, supporters said the move could reduced residents' power costs by $200 million annually by relieving the bottleneck to the gas-fired power plants. But PUC officials have mentioned that the rewards of pipeline proposals they're considering likely won't outweigh the fees.
Woodcock mentioned that's why LePage desires the New England states to work together on a plan to subsidize and construct additional pipelines, which they had been performing ahead of former Democratic Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick stalled the program final year.
Jack Cashman, who served on the PUC below Baldacci, agrees that much more organic gas infrastructure is necessary. But making Maine also reliant on the fossil fuel with out advertising renewable development could leave buyers on the hook for larger fees in the future, he mentioned.
"The thought that all-natural gas is going to be forever affordable since we have reserves in this nation is a fallacy," Cashman mentioned. "Why would you put all of your eggs in that basket?"
For LePage and many massive corporations right here, the answer is uncomplicated: Maine can't afford not to.
___
+ FollowFox Enterprise on Facebook
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
04 April 2015 Saturday 14:33
34 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.
Breaking News in this Category

