April 09, 2015 08:14 GMT
By KEN RITTER Associated Press
LAS VEGAS (AP) -- A trip by five U.S. Congress members to the mothballed site of a proposed national nuclear waste repository outside Las Vegas is stirring new talk about whether the nation's spent reactor fuel should be buried in Nevada.
The tour on Thursday comes with momentum building toward restarting the Yucca Mountain project -- just weeks after U.S. Sen. Harry Reid announced he'll retire after 2016.
Reid is among the staunchest opponents of the project. He has repeatedly pronounced it dead.
Congressman John Shimkus, R-Illinois, is heading the delegation. He says the U.S. needs a nuclear waste strategy, and Yucca Mountain should be considered.
Also on the tour will be Nevada's newest Congress member, Republican Cresent Hardy. He has been signaling a willingness to support the project if Nevada gains benefits in return.
Thursday, April  9 2015, 07:00 AM
Here are the top stories we are following for you today.
Citizens in Asheville sound off on the news of the deadly police shooting in North Charleston. People showed up for a Stand Against Racism event to speak out.
A Marion man is facing charges after police say he broke into someone's home, set it on fire and stole several items. Timothy Gainey faces arson, breaking-and-entering and other charges.
The Henderson County Sheriff is investigating after three different non-profits were broken into. All three of them are in Horse Shoe.
WLOS News 13 provides local news, weather forecasts, traffic updates, notices of events and items of interest in the community, sports and entertainment programming for Asheville, NC and nearby towns and communities in Western North Carolina and the Upstate of South Carolina, including the counties of Buncombe, Henderson, Rutherford, Haywood, Polk, Transylvania, McDowell, Mitchell, Madison, Yancey, Jackson, Swain, Macon, Graham, Spartanburg, Greenville, Anderson, Union, Pickens, Oconee, Laurens, Greenwood, Abbeville and also Biltmore Forest, Woodfin, Leicester, Black Mountain, Montreat, Arden, Weaverville, Hendersonville, Etowah, Flat Rock, Mills River, Waynesville, Maggie Valley, Canton, Clyde, Franklin, Cullowhee, Sylva, Cherokee, Marion, Old Fort, Forest City, Lake Lure, Bat Cave, Spindale, Spruce Pine, Bakersville, Burnsville, Tryon, Columbus, Marshall, Mars Hill, Brevard, Bryson City, Cashiers, Greer, Landrum, Clemson, Gaffney, and Easley.
// clickable_wings

