THE ASSOCIATED PRESS  
We also have more stories about:
(click the phrases to see a list)
Subjects:
 
SAN FRANCISCO — A state commission reprimanded 43 California judges for misconduct in 2014, including two judges who had sex with women in their chambers, a report said.
California's Commission on Judicial Performance publicly reprimanded five of the state's 1,800 judges last year, and it sent private letters to others, the Los Angeles Times reported Sunday ( http://lat.ms/1Gzkntx ).
The agency documents judicial misconduct every year, but commission director and chief counsel Victoria B. Henley said few people know they can file complaints against judges.
Since 2005, the number of complaints filed against judges has risen while the percentage of those disciplined has remained relatively flat, the report said.
The commission has recommended removing judges from the bench only six times since 2005. Those cases involved ticket-fixing and accepting expensive gifts from lawyers and litigants whose cases were decided by the judge, Henley said.
Last year, two of the most serious cases involved judges who had sex in their chambers. Orange County Superior Court Judge Scott Steiner, a former prosecutor and elected judge, had sex with two former students and tried to get one a job in the district attorney's office, the report said.
Kern County Superior Court Judge Cory Woodward, who was appointed by then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, had sex with his court clerk in chambers and passed her notes of a sexual nature during court proceedings, the report said.
A message was left Sunday for attorney Paul Meyer, who represented both judges. Meyer last year said in statements that Steiner and Woodward cooperated fully with the inquiry, apologized and appreciated the commission's thorough review.
Misconduct reported last year also included mistreating litigants and making inappropriate comments on social media.
A traffic court judge delegated his job to his clerk, who heard pleas and imposed sentences, while a family law court judge called two parents who appeared before him "rotten," the newspaper reported.
Several judges received advisory letters for showing favoritism or failing to disclose potential conflicts of interest, the report said.
Nearly 90 percent of the complaints came from litigants or their relatives. Others were filed by lawyers, judges and court staff.
Most of the complaints that were dismissed involved judges' rulings because the commission does not discipline judges for legal errors, Henley said.
All content copyright ©2015 Daily Journal, a division of Home News Enterprises unless otherwise noted.

