Ribbon-hanging precedes Relay for Life
Purple ribbons fluttering from light posts around Sturgis are a reminder that it’s time for “Relay for Life.”
Comment
Sturgis
Purple ribbons fluttering from light posts around Sturgis are a reminder that it’s time for “Relay for Life.”
The event begins at noon Friday at the Sturgis High School athletic complex and continues for 24 hours.
Community members have been meeting, rounding up team members and gathering donations.
So far, Sturgis Relay for Life has 19 teams with 122 participants who have raised almost $15,500, said Holly Gushwa, local leader of Relay for Life.
Although battling cancer is anything but fun, Relay for Life celebrates victories over cancer with food, games, activities and entertainment in a family-friendly, community environment.
Friday, activities include a dunk tank from 4-9 p.m. hosted by the city of Sturgis team.    
The survivor lap, which begins at 6 p.m., celebrates personal victories over cancer, as other participants line the track to cheer on survivors. Caregivers are included in the lap and honor.
Jim Moshier of Sturgis, a cancer survivor, is one of the featured speakers prior to the lap. Moshier said he was amazed and “extremely honored,” to be asked to speak.
Following the lap, a survivors’ dinner is hosted by Sturgis Hospital.  
A luminaria ceremony takes place after dark. Candles in personalized bags are placed around the track, glowing in honor of those affected by cancer.
Relay for Life teams often camp near the track on Friday night as members take turns walking. At midnight, a balloon launch will take place.
A pancake breakfast is offered 7-9 a.m. Saturday even for those who don’t choose to spend the night. An auction begins at 9 a.m..
Proceeds will go to the American Cancer Society. Relay For Life is the world’s largest fundraising event to fight cancer.
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.


Saved
44 minutes ago
CUSTER - Walkers from the Southern Hills will gather at 6 p.m. on Friday, June 5, at the Custer High School Track for the Relay against Cancer.
The 2015 Relay For Life of Southern Hills features participants as they walk relay-style around the track and take part in fun activities off the track.
Teams can include coworkers, club members, family and friends who have gathered donations prior to the event.
The event activities include a survivor reception at 4:30 p.m., the opening ceremony at 6 p.m., themed laps, silent auction, face painting, Fight Back Ceremony at 9 p.m., and food will be available from Custer High School Cheer team.
For more information on how to participate go to www.relayforlife.org/southernhillssd.
Copyright 2015 Rapid City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
Welcome Magazine
Email Alerts
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with rapidcityjournal.com account:
Username & Password Required!

