Ribbon-hanging precedes Relay for Life
Purple ribbons fluttering from light posts around Sturgis are a reminder that it’s time for “Relay for Life.”
Comment
Sturgis
Purple ribbons fluttering from light posts around Sturgis are a reminder that it’s time for “Relay for Life.”
The event begins at noon Friday at the Sturgis High School athletic complex and continues for 24 hours.
Community members have been meeting, rounding up team members and gathering donations.
So far, Sturgis Relay for Life has 19 teams with 122 participants who have raised almost $15,500, said Holly Gushwa, local leader of Relay for Life.
Although battling cancer is anything but fun, Relay for Life celebrates victories over cancer with food, games, activities and entertainment in a family-friendly, community environment.
Friday, activities include a dunk tank from 4-9 p.m. hosted by the city of Sturgis team.    
The survivor lap, which begins at 6 p.m., celebrates personal victories over cancer, as other participants line the track to cheer on survivors. Caregivers are included in the lap and honor.
Jim Moshier of Sturgis, a cancer survivor, is one of the featured speakers prior to the lap. Moshier said he was amazed and “extremely honored,” to be asked to speak.
Following the lap, a survivors’ dinner is hosted by Sturgis Hospital.  
A luminaria ceremony takes place after dark. Candles in personalized bags are placed around the track, glowing in honor of those affected by cancer.
Relay for Life teams often camp near the track on Friday night as members take turns walking. At midnight, a balloon launch will take place.
A pancake breakfast is offered 7-9 a.m. Saturday even for those who don’t choose to spend the night. An auction begins at 9 a.m..
Proceeds will go to the American Cancer Society. Relay For Life is the world’s largest fundraising event to fight cancer.
» Comment or view comments  
 
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
© Copyright 2006-2015 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved    Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Service  |  Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.


Local heroes honored during Henry County Relay for Life
Henry County held its annual Relay for Life May 2. More than 200 individuals participated in the event. The relay kicked off with local cancer survivors leading the first lap. The Henry County Relay appreciates all of the relay participants for their hard work and dedication in helping find cure for cancer.
Posted: Tuesday, May 26, 2015 11:40 am
Henry County participated in the world’s largest fundraising movement for the American Cancer Society May 2. The county held its annual Relay for Life in Headland.
“The relay went great,” said Joy Brigham, community manager for Relay for Life. “The weather cooperated with us, and we had great entertainment provided throughout the event.”
The goal for the 2015 Henry County Relay for Life was set at $40,000.
“We were a little short on meeting our goal by the night of the relay,” Brigham said. “So far, we have raised $37,000. However, fund-raising events are still taking place, and additional events will be scheduled in the near future to help us reach our goal. The cutoff date has been set for August 31. We feel we will meet our goal by cutoff.”
Henry County had 19 teams participate in the relay. More than 200 individuals attended to honors those who have won the fight and those who gave their all during their fight.
“All of our teams worked very hard in making sure this year’s event was a success, and it was,” Brigham said. “All funds raised during the event will go to help win the fight against cancer. The best news we can share is we had around 90 individuals participate in our survivor dinner. That is amazing, and we thank each and every one of them. That alone is something to cheer about. The dinner was a huge success, and we thank each and every one of our sponsors who helped make the dinner possible to honor those who have won the fight.”
The Henry County Relay for Life Committee thanks the following sponsors for their participation in either the relay or the survivor dinner. They are FatBacks, H&H Construction, H&M Food Equipment, Pea River Electric, HNB First, Abbeville Kiwanis, Dr. Jimmy King, Carter’s Trophy, Alabama Power Company, Herndon Oil, Great Southern Wood, Henry County Health and Rehabilitation, Southeast Alabama Gas District, Wells Fargo, Billy’s Paint and Body and Headland Family Medicine.
“We could not have pulled off this event, if it were not for all of our sponsors,” Brigham said. “Each of the sponsors went above and beyond in helping us with this year’s relay. This year’s theme was ‘Be a Hero, Fight Back against Cancer.’ We definitely had our share of soldiers who have either won their battle or are fighting their battle. We also honored those who gave everything they had during their fight against cancer. That is why this event is so important. We all want a cure, and every dime goes towards, hopefully, finding that cure.”
 
Posted in Dothan progress on Tuesday, May 26, 2015 11:40 am.
Calvary Baptist Church, Dothan
2765 State Highway 52, Hartford
Dothan Civic Center, Dothan
Dothan, AL 36303
Photos
Video
Haven’t signed up for All Access yet? Get started here…
Screen Name or Email
Need more information about All Access? Get all of the details here .

