Legislative preview: End of session on track, House Speaker says
Anne Galloway Apr. 7 2015, 5:09 am Leave a Comment
In another week, it will be thumb-twiddling time in the House of Representatives.
With the kind of adherence to discipline that is the hallmark of Shap Smith’s tenure as House Speaker at the Statehouse, lawmakers have already finished the money bills and a controversial education reform proposal. Once the $22 million health care package is taken up this week, the House will be waiting for spring and the Senate to finish its business (most of which is still to come).
But even with the log jam facing the Senate floor over the next six weeks, Smith says timely adjournment is very likely. The legislative session is budgeted for 16 to 18 weeks, and that puts the end date at May 9 or May 15.
On Wednesday, the House will take up H.76, a ban on teacher strikes and imposed labor agreements. If the committee votes are any indication, the bill faces a split vote on the floor, as Democrats are divided on the issue. The bill passed out of House Education 8-3 then failed in the General, Housing & Military Affairs Committee over a proposed one-cent tax penalty on homestead rates in communities where teacher contracts are not settled within one year of expiration.
House committees are reviewing several notable Senate bills this week, including S.141, legislation that would prohibit certain criminals from possessing guns, and S.9, legislation protecting children from abuse and neglect.
The jobs bill is on the floor of the Senate, but most of the serious business downstairs this week is in committee.
The sweeping water quality bill, which in the House version includes pollution control measures and fines, is set to pass out of Senate Natural Resources this week, once senators have struck the House language and replaced it with their version of the legislation. A floor vote is scheduled at the end of next week.
The House education reform package, which passed last week in an 88-55 vote, will likely take a two week tour of duty in Senate Education and come up for a floor vote the week of April 22.
That leaves the best for last. All the major money bills — the capital bill, transportation, budget and tax proposals — will come out of the Senate at the end of April. And then the two bodies will reconcile their differences in the conference committee compromises that mark the denouement of the session.
The end can’t come soon enough for many inside the Golden Bubble. The grim reality of shrinking resources has made for a tough budget year, and Gov. Peter Shumlin’s negative public approval rating has cast a pall over the Democratic majority. Under those circumstances, making the small world of Vermont a better place can feel like more of a chore than an opportunity.
Latest stories by Anne
Comment policy
VTDigger.org requires that all commenters identify themselves by their authentic first and last names. Initials, pseudonyms or screen names are not permissible. The purpose of this policy is to encourage a civil discourse among neighbors who are willing to stand behind their identities and their comments.
As a result of our comment policy, VTDigger.org has created a safe zone for readers who wish to engage in a thoughtful discussion on a range of subjects, regardless of where they stand. We hope you join the conversation.
Privacy policy
VTDigger.org does not share specific information about our readers with other entities. Email addresses we collect through our subscription list and comment submissions are kept private.
We use Google analytics to generate aggregated data regarding the size and geographic distribution of our readership. This information helps us gauge how many readers come to the website and what towns they live in. It does not include addresses or other identifying characteristics about our readers.
LIKE US:
Daily Digger & Weekly Wrap Up
Weekly Wrap Up Only
Latest Video
Vermont News Briefs
April 6, 2015
April 6, 2015
April 5, 2015
97 State Street
Montpelier, VT 05602
We're an independent nonprofit organization, your donation helps fund the digging, and, it's tax deductible.
Thanks for reporting an error with the story, "Legislative preview: End of session on track, House Speaker says"
Name*
First
Last
Email*
Error*
Captcha

