Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Texas lawmakers want to close 'bypass' for teen abortions
Texas, like many other conservative states, has strived to make it difficult for women to have abortions. But a little known legal process in the state is helping 300 to 500 pregnant terminate their pregnancies each year without involving their parents.
Post to Facebook
Texas lawmakers want to close 'bypass' for teen abortions Texas, like many other conservative states, has strived to make it difficult for women to have abortions. But a little known legal process in the state is helping 300 to 500 pregnant terminate their pregnancies each year without involving their parents. Check out this story on KHOU.com: http://on.khou.com/1CcjnWf
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Texas lawmakers want to close 'bypass' for teen abortions
EVA RUTH MORAVEC, Associated Press 11:41 a.m. CDT April 6, 2015
The Texas State Capitol
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) - Texas, like many other conservative states, has strived to make it difficult for women to have abortions. But a little known legal process in the state is helping 300 to 500 pregnant terminate their pregnancies each year without involving their parents.
Through Texas' so-called "judicial bypass," girls younger than 18 may ask a court for permission to have an abortion instead of their parents. About 20 percent of abortions that Texas minors undergo are approved through the court process.
Texas conservatives, however, are pushing to make the court approval rarer.  Under new proposals in the Legislature, girls would have to provide more proof showing they are mature enough to make the decision and fear abuse by their parents.  Some of the proposals are expected to pass.
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Read or Share this story: http://on.khou.com/1CcjnWf
More Stories
April 4, 2015, 12:21 p.m.

