SC’s Graham looks to offer different brand of conservatism
By CHRIS GAROFOLO
Staff Writer
South Carolina Republican Lindsey Graham said Wednesday that he can offer a moderate brand of conservatism to expand the party to a younger and larger audience.
Graham, a three-term senator considering a presidential bid in 2016, has been known to buck widespread Republican talking points on environmental and immigration issues, which has made him an attractive choice for centrist voters. He has raised questions of whether the GOP can recapture the White House if they remain steadfast in their conservative dogma, especially when looking at the changing demographics. ... Subscribe or log in to read more 
Digital subscribers receive
Unlimited access to all stories from nashuatelegraph.com on your computer, tablet or smart phone.
Access nashuatelegraph.com, view our digital edition or use our Full Access apps.
Get more information at nashuatelegraph.com/fullaccess
South Carolina Republican Lindsey Graham said Wednesday that he can offer a moderate brand of conservatism to expand the party to a younger and larger audience.
Graham, a three-term senator considering a presidential bid in 2016, has been known to buck widespread Republican talking points on environmental and immigration issues, which has made him an attractive choice for centrist voters. He has raised questions of whether the GOP can recapture the White House if they remain steadfast in their conservative dogma, especially when looking at the changing demographics.
“You’re not going to win in the future if you don’t grow the party,” he said in a Telegraph interview Wednesday morning.
Republicans won 61 percent of the white vote in 2012 but only 27 percent of Hispanics. That figure re-enforces the belief that the party does not care about the rapidly growing Latino population, he said, and demagoguing the immigration issue is hurting Republicans without solving the problem.
“The Republican Party is at a crossroads. We’ve gone from 44 percent of the Hispanic vote in 2004 to 27 percent. What has happened since 2004 and 2015?” he said. “We’ve had three attempts to solve the immigration problem. I would argue the way we’ve handled this issue, some of the rhetoric around the debate has turned off our Hispanic brothers and sisters, and they don’t feel welcome.”
Instead, he calls for a merit-based solution where people who entered the country illegally can move toward citizenship if they meet a series of requirements that include learning English, paying taxes and avoiding run-ins with the law.
Graham also connects with younger voters who overwhelmingly support Earth-friendly issues. He said the party could entice millennials by displaying a pro-business policy that embraces an environmental agenda.
“I am trying to offer a version of conservatism that will reach a broader audience that we have today,” he said. “As to young people, if you’re worried about the environment, count me in.”
The 59-year-old self-
described “problem solver” has toyed with the idea of entering the Republican presidential race. He expects to make a decision in May.
Graham’s moderate views – as well as his willingness to work with Democratic President Barack Obama in his first term in the White House – drew the wrath of his Republican base back home and in 2014 led to six primary challengers from the right.
While Graham is seen as a turncoat for some of his views, he has built a strong reputation as a foreign-policy hawk and defense-spending advocate. He said radical Islamic terrorism is the greatest threat facing the American public and would favor greater education funding in foreign aid to quell the violence over time, although he supports a strike-first tactic to defend the United States.
“A small schoolhouse built in Afghanistan can do more damage to radical Islam that any brigade of soldiers,” Graham said. “And I know we need things here in New Hampshire and South Carolina, but if we don’t lead the world, somebody else will.”
He also took shots at Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul and Hillary Clinton, the former secretary of state and presumptive Democratic presidential frontrunner, for their worldviews.
He said Clinton’s fingerprints are all over Obama’s failed foreign policy. And on the same morning Paul visited Milford during his freshly announced presidential bid, Graham criticized the libertarian-leaning senator for being one step behind on foreign policy, suggesting that “almost every one on our side” could have brokered a better deal with Iran than Paul.
“I think Hillary could get a better deal; she doesn’t carry the baggage on some of these issues that he does,” Graham said. “I don’t think that Sen. Paul taking Barack Obama’s chair at the negotiating table is going to advance the cause of a better deal.”
Focusing on the home front, Graham said there is a concern about the unfunded liabilities that come with the ongoing retirement of baby boomers and tied the need for entitlement reform to revisions in the tax code.
“Tax reform is necessary to create economic growth. The better tax policy, the more certain taxation, the lower the rates, the better it is to create jobs,” he said. “People have a hard time bringing on new employees when they don’t know what their tax liabilities are going to be, what their health care costs are going to be, what the power bill might be, so we kind of have a cloud over the economy right now.”
Republicans need to compromise on tax reform, he said. The GOP needs to accept that they must pay down the debt by eliminating some credits and deductions in the tax code so Democrats, in turn, will begrudgingly consent to an age adjustment for retirement.
Graham made stops in Barrington and Belmont later in the day during his latest swing to the state. On Thursday, he will appear at New Hampshire Ball Bearings in Laconia with fellow Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-N.H., to discuss legislation related to exports.
The South Carolinian is also slated to return here next week for the two-day “First in the Nation” Republican Leadership Summit in Nashua. He praised the early-voting states of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina for providing lesser-known candidates the opportunity to seize the spotlight without vast campaign war chests.
“If it were California, New York and Florida, I wouldn’t stand a snowball’s chance in hell. Most of us wouldn’t, because it would be all about money,” he said.
Chris Garofolo can be reached at 594-6465, cgarofolo@nashua
telegraph.com or @Telegraph_Chris.
© 2015 The Telegraph, All Rights Reserved

