Obama administration touts U.S. exports, but critics cite NAFTA manufacturing losses
Eric Anderso, Times Union
Albany
New York companies exported $86 billion worth of goods last year, a figure that's up 88 percent over the past 10 years, according to the Obama administration.
The exports also supported nearly 390,000 jobs statewide, according to a report for release Thursday.
Of those exports, $22 billion went to nations that are members of the Trans Pacific Partnership , or TPP, while another $18.8 billion went to members of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership ( T-TIP ).
Michael Froman , the U.S. Trade Representative , is touting the two trade measures now being negotiated as a way to reduce tariffs on U.S. exports and create additional jobs.
But the Obama administration is facing pushback from some members of Congress, including Rep. Paul Tonko, D-Amsterdam,labor organizations and environmental groups that fear details of the agreement being negotiated behind closed doors could put U.S. jobs, and health and environment standards, at risk.
"We face high tariffs in many of these other markets," Froman told the Times Union this week. "We need these trade agreements to lower" those barriers.
"It's also an opportunity to level the trading field," he added.
Froman argues the agreements would raise labor and environmental standards in other countries and impose discipline on state-owned companies that now have an unfair advantage against U.S. competitors.
"We're establishing high, strong labor and environmental standards," Froman said.
Unions have expressed concern, pointing to job losses in the wake of NAFTA, the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Froman said the NAFTA agreement is being renegotiated.
Trade adjustment assistance provisions included in NAFTA, which provided support and retraining for American workers who lost their jobs to overseas companies, will be a feature of TPP and T-TIP, Froman said.
Public Citizen has called TPP "NAFTA on steroids," and said the United States has lost nearly five million manufacturing jobs in NAFTA's wake.
Tonko, who represents most of the Capital Region, is a member of a House coalition against TPP and frequently speaks against the secret talks surrounding the trade pact.
"Trade deficits have put the biggest dent in the American economy," he said. "We sent out of our country's borders the solid manufacturing jobs."
And he said at least four countries that are parties to the talks — Vietnam, Malaysia, Mexico and Peru — manufacture goods produced by child labor.
Froman believes the agreement would change such practices, and he argues that the U.S. jobs supported by exports pay 18 percent more than average.
"This is about creating good jobs here," he added.
Others worry that domestic regulations that establish higher standards in everything from public health to consumer protection could be challenged by businesses under the act.
A spokesman for the U.S. Trade Representative said there's a reason that Congress can't amend the agreement after it's negotiated: "It gives a certain level of assurance to our trading partners" that what they've agreed to will be in the final measure.
Instead, Congress considers the measure as a whole, voting it up or down.
Of the two agreements, the TPP is further along.
Among the challenges remaining are protection of intellectual property rights and market access for agricultural products and autos.
Froman expects action on TPP soon. "We're very much in the endgame," he said.

