Raul Castro, Arizona&#39s only Latino governor, dies at 98
Remebering former Arizona Governor Raul H. Castro Former Gov. Raul Castro(Photo: Arizona Republic)PHOENIX — Raul Hector Castro, who became Arizona's only Latino governor and a well-traveled U.S. diplomat just after lifting himself out of a hardscrabble,...
Former Gov. Raul Castro(Photo: Arizona Republic)
PHOENIX — Raul Hector Castro, who became Arizona's only Latino governor and a well-traveled U.S. diplomat just after lifting himself out of a hardscrabble, impoverished childhood, has died at the age of 98.
Castro followed an improbable journey to the state's highest workplace and a series of presidential appointments to diplomatic posts. Born in Mexico, he spent some of his childhood scouring the desert for meals to feed his family members. He spent some of his young-adult years as a hobo, boxing for money at carnivals or selecting sugar beets in fields.
Castro was a Tucson lawyer when he decided to enter politics. He saw rampant discrimination against Latinos and figured the most effective way to change the program was to become portion of it. Castro was elected Pima County attorney in 1954 and was subsequently elected a Superior Court judge. He spent time as a U.S. ambassador in Latin America just before returning to Arizona and running for governor.
Castro served two years as governor just before becoming asked again by one more U.S. president  to serve as a diplomat.
Arizona Governor Doug Ducey announced Castro's passing in a statement, saying Arizonans will not overlook the 14th governor.
"He was an honorable public servant, a history-maker, a beloved family man and a strong pal and fighter for Arizona," Ducey's statement said. "No matter whether as a county attorney, a superior court judge, a United States ambassador or - as we will best remember him - our 14th governor, his life and legacy of service is forever ingrained in our history. The thoughts and prayers of all Arizonans are with Governor Castro's family and loved ones during this challenging time."
Ducey ordered state flags to be lowered to half-employees in Castro's honor in a day exactly where he was remembered as a achievement story. The Governor's Office will soon announce specifics on plans to honor Castro's life and legacy.
Through his shortened gubernatorial stint, Castro visited China on a trade mission and established a state film commission that attempted to attract tv and movie productions. Castro also stepped into the investigation of the 1976 car bombing of Arizona Republic reporter Don Bolles.
Castro, at the request of the state attorney basic, pulled the case from the Maricopa County Attorney's Office and gave it to the state, soon after attorneys raised issues about comments the county lawyer produced to the CBS plan 60 Minutes about possible suspects.
Even though he was a trailblazer for Latinos in Arizona politics, Castro expressed regret that not quite a few Latinos followed his path. Since his election in 1974, no Latino has been his or her party's nominee for the governor's chair.
"I'd have figured, after all these years, somebody would have come in," Castro said in the course of a 2011 interview at his Nogales, Ariz., home.
Castro was born in Cananea, Mexico, about 30 miles south of the U.S. border. His father, Francisco, brought the family members to the United States as political refugees. Mexican authorities had targeted Francisco for his union-organizing activities.
Raul Castro remembered the household getting into the United States at Naco when he was ten.
A border agent welcomed the loved ones to the United States and told them their future was up to them. "That's what we wanted to hear," Castro said. "On our personal."
Former Arizona Gov. Raul Castro talks about his 1974 campaign, a run that quite a few told the Democrat he was &quotcrazy" to pursue in a heavily Republican state. Produced by Jack Kurtz/The Arizona Republic.
In a statement issued by Donald Daley III, Castro's grandson, he mentioned his 98-year-old grandfather, who was proud to be the initially Latino elected to serve as governor, "lived as complete and meaningful a life as any man could think about."
"He made history though his public service when assisting to boost the lives of the countless numbers of people today with whom he came in contact — even though my family members just knew him as our beloved patriarch and a man to be cherished and respected," Daley wrote.
Castro's family settled in Pirtleville, a town with a primarily Mexican population outside Douglas.
A single day, Arizona Gov. George W.P. Hunt was scheduled to make a speech at 10th Street Park in Douglas. Castro and two buddies from Pirtleville went, lured by the guarantee of absolutely free hamburgers and hotdogs. Castro mentioned Hunt, dressed in a white-linen suit and pith helmet, talked about Douglas and Arizona being a land of chance. He then gestured toward Castro and his good friends and said that even 1 of "these young barefooted Mexican kids" could be governor 1 day.
"I did not know what governor meant," Castro mentioned. "All I was interested in was the free hotdogs and hamburgers."
In 2002, that park was renamed Raul H. Castro Park.
As a child, Castro said he could not see a path to political energy. He saw himself treated as a second-class citizen.
The college bus would pass by him and other Latino students, picking up only Anglo youngsters to take them to school in Douglas. "They'd wave at us but wouldn't choose us up," Castro said. "And my query even then, even at that age, was: 'Why should really it be? Why do they ride and we have to stroll?' "
This Aug. two, 2006 file photo shows Raul Hector Castro, former governor of Arizona and former U.S. ambassador to El Salvador and Argentina, at a news conference in Bisbee, Ariz. (Photo: Ed Honda, AP)
When Castro was 12, his father died. His mother, Rosario, a midwife, was left to raise 12 youngsters on her personal. Castro remembered foraging for wild-expanding leafy greens or prickly-pear fruit for his household. He said his mother would be in tears sometimes.
"She did not know where the next meal was coming from," he said.
Castro remembered asking his mother if life would constantly be hard.
"She mentioned, 'Son, you are going to be what ever you want to be. It really is up to you,'" Castro said. "She passed the burden on to me."
Castro, though, was not a excellent elementary-college student. He had some primary schooling in Mexico but felt like he was beginning more than again in Arizona. He was placed two grades back and had to immediately learn English.
In fifth grade, his teacher put a hand on his shoulder and stated he had potential to be a wonderful student if he simply applied himself.
On the way residence, Castro mentioned, he was touched that an individual would take an interest in him. "I didn't want to disappoint her," he stated. "So, starting the following day, I did turn into a incredibly good student all the way through."
On the day he was inaugurated as governor, Castro received a telegram from a woman asking him if he was the very same Raul Castro who was a fifth-grade student in Douglas decades just before. His teacher included her phone quantity, Castro said.
"I named her and mentioned, 'Yes, I am the identical Raul Castro,'" he mentioned. "I was incredibly pleased and proud, and I'm positive she was, also."
Castro graduated from higher college in 1935 and had no plans to attend college. He was operating as a window washer when a professor from the Arizona State Teachers College in Flagstaff approached him with a scholarship provide. Castro had played quarterback for Douglas Higher College, and the northern Arizona college necessary a quarterback.
&ldquoI didn&#39t want to disappoint (my teacher). So, beginning the following day, I did turn out to be a very superior student all the way by means of.”
With a blessing from his mother, Castro headed to Flagstaff. But he proved to be too little to play college quarterback and quickly found himself lost on campus.
"There were, perhaps, five Mexican students on the whole campus," Castro mentioned, "and we had been ignored fully."
Wanting to make his mark, Castro joined the boxing club. He ended his campus profession undefeated. "I had clout on campus," he stated. "People today knew who I was."
Just after graduating with a teaching degree, Castro tried to get a job at a college but was denied. "I was practically told: We never hire Mexican-Americans as schoolteachers," he stated. "Not even in my property town of Douglas."
Feeling dispirited, Castro became a hobo. He traveled by rail around the country and took what ever job came his way, commonly as a farmhand. He would also box at carnivals for extra money.
It was during these travels that he discovered an odd lesson on racial discrimination. He heard Italian slurs — mistakenly directed at him — in Pennsylvania. He heard anti-Catholic speak in Oklahoma. In Minnesota, he saw signs on apartments saying Finnish folks weren't allowed.
"It helped me get the chip off my shoulder," he stated. "You happen to be not the only one in the world becoming picked on."
His vagabond days ended with a get in touch with from his younger brother. He was attending college in Flagstaff and told Castro that he was going to drop out. Just after all, the brother said, Castro got a degree and he was a hobo. Castro told his brother to keep in school for the reason that the degree would be worth it. Castro returned to Douglas determined to get a job befitting his education.
He passed many civil-service exams to operate as a mail carrier, a customs inspector and an FBI agent. But he never made it past the oral interview.
"It became rather obvious it was a racial thing," Castro mentioned. "In those days, you did not see any person of Mexican ancestry operating for the government."
He heard about a new U.S. consulate workplace in Agua Prieta, Mexico. The staff members were all bright men and women but had restricted Spanish. Castro applied for a job as a clerk and got it.
That place him to work translating reports and meeting with members of the legal community in the Sonoran town. "I became a young man about town in Agua Prieta," he said.
Soon after 5 years, Castro came back to Tucson and attended law school. He also worked as a Spanish instructor. He graduated in 1949 and opened a private practice. Three years later, he joined the Pima County Attorney's Office as a deputy prosecutor.
Whilst at a barbershop, the speak amongst the mainly Latino crowd was about discrimination. Castro told those there that he was by means of talking and said that he was going to run for county lawyer. The barbershop wags told him he was crazy, that no one particular would vote for a Mexican-born man.
But Castro had produced his thoughts up. It was worth a shot.
His decision did not sit well with the sitting Pima County lawyer, Morris K. Udall.
Castro was at a meeting where Udall announced to some lawyers that he had created his decision of a successor. Castro got up and walked out.
Udall later asked Castro why he was upset. When Castro told him his program for operating for the post, Udall became upset.
"I stated, 'Look, never you grumble. I am going to get up and knock the hell out of you,'" Castro said. He stood up and began around his desk. Udall have to have known Castro was a former boxer, Castro mentioned. "Out the door he went," he said.
In 1954, Castro became the initially Latino elected as Pima County lawyer. There hasn't been a different because.
4 years later, he was elected a judge for Pima County Superior Court.
About that time, Castro met Patricia Steiner, who had moved to Tucson from Milwaukee. Steiner's mother had asthma, and her medical professional encouraged the desert climate.
This Oct. 16, 2008, file photo shows former Arizona governor and U.S. ambassador Raul Hector Castro and his wife, Patricia Steiner Castro,  in their Nogales, Ariz., property. Castro waited years prior to introducing his German-Irish wife-to-be to his Mexican-born mother. (Photo: Kelly Presnell, AP)
It was a long courtship because Castro, despite becoming in his 40s, was afraid to bring the German-Irish girl house to meet his mother.
"My mother would tell me, 'Son, whatever you do, do not you marry an American girl,'" Castro mentioned. Those women, according to his mother, smoked and drank and had been not very good mothers.
Just after 5 years of dating, Castro ultimately took Steiner to meet his mother in Douglas. The two hit it off famously, in spite of a language barrier.
"Because that day, Mother constantly took her side, under no circumstances my side," Castro mentioned. The two married in 1959.
The couple honeymooned in Mexico City but occurred to pick the very same hotel that Fidel and Ruben Castro were applying to program the Cuban Revolution. Castro said the couple received "crazy" telephone calls and knocks on their door from males carrying pistols who had mistakenly been directed to the incorrect Castro.
In 1960, when Lyndon Baines Johnson was campaigning for president, he stopped in Tucson for a speech. Castro gave a brief speech preceding his. That began a correspondence amongst the two.
In 1964, President Johnson asked Castro if he would be an ambassador. His one particular situation: that Castro adopt his mother's maiden name. Johnson did not want to appoint a person who shared the final name of Cuba's communist dictator.
Castro refused. "No sir. No way," Castro said. "I like my name. I am not changing my name."
Johnson relented and named Castro ambassador to El Salvador. Although there, Castro hosted the president and his family for a week.
Castro later became ambassador to Bolivia and held on to the post following President Nixon took office. But Castro returned to Tucson in 1969 and began his quest for governor.
It was another campaign that even close mates and supporters figured was a extended shot. He ran against a well-known incumbent, Jack Williams.
Castro said the state was also largely conservative. "I mentioned, appear, nobody's attempted it. I'm going to attempt it," he stated.
He lost that election by five,000 votes. But he gave it yet another try in 1974, running against Republican Russ Williams.
Castro figured there were votes to be gained on Native American reservations and in tiny-visited regions of the states. "Think you me, I created the rounds," he mentioned.
Arizona had no governor's mansion and had in no way elected an individual who did not have a household in Phoenix. Castro, whose home was in Tucson, lived in a Phoenix hotel for a when until Tom Chauncey, owner of a Phoenix television station, donated a Paradise Valley mansion to the Castros.
As governor, Castro pushed for a motion-picture office aimed at attracting movie and television productions to the state. Among the first projects was a Clint Eastwood movie known as The Gauntlet. The action film concluded with a rolling shootout along Adams Street in downtown Phoenix.
In the 1976 elections, Castro supported former Georgia Gov. Jimmy Carter more than Udall in the Democratic presidential main. After his election, Carter repaid the favor by providing Castro an ambassadorship to Argentina.
Former governors Rose Mofford and Raul Castro say the pledge of allegiance for the duration of Janet Napolitano&#39s inauguration as the twenty first governor of Arizona by Chief Judge Mary Schroeder of the 9th Circuit Court Of Appeals. Castro died on April ten, 2015. (Photo: Tom Tingle/ The Republic)
Castro resigned his seat in 1977, a move that he later said brought on him some regret. "The Hispanic neighborhood in Arizona felt very badly," Castro said. "They felt like I turned them down.
"Right here, they go through this struggle of finding me elected governor of Arizona, and then, I only serve two years. … That made me really feel badly."
Castro served as ambassador till June 1980, a couple of months immediately after Carter left office. Castro returned to Arizona and resumed private practice in Tucson. He moved to Nogales in 1996 and retired his law practice in 2003.
Castro's Nogales house had a backyard patio that supplied a view of the border with Mexico. But as symbolic as that was, Castro did not pick out the household. His wife, Patricia, identified it.
In 2012, as Castro was headed from his Nogales residence to his 96th birthday celebration in Tucson, he was detained by Border Patrol agents who had set up a checkpoint on a freeway.
&ldquoIf you have a want and a willingness, you can go to school. You can go to a university. You can get a degree and be something.”
A family members pal who was driving Castro described the incident in a letter to the Nogales International, saying it was disrespectful for agents to force Castro to stand for a half hour in one hundred-degree temperatures while wearing a suit. The Border Patrol said the delay was ten minutes.
Castro was more charitable than his buddy when discussing the issue. He mentioned he thought agents "would have been much more considerate and said, 'Keep on going.' But that did not take place."
Castro moved to an assisted living facility in San Diego in April 2014.
Castro did not attend the January inauguration of Doug Ducey. Till then, Castro had attended every gubernatorial address that opened the legislative session at the state Capitol. He also often gave speeches to civic organizations. He particularly enjoyed speaking to schools, specially those in poor neighborhoods, employing his life as an object lesson.
"You can't use the excuse of 'You can't go to college for the reason that you never have any funds,'" Castro mentioned. "Look at me. … I could not be any poorer. …
"If you have a wish and a willingness, you can go to college," Castro mentioned. "You can go to a university. You can get a degree and be anything."
Castro is survived by his wife, Pat Castro, and daughters, Mary Pat James and Beth Castro. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be produced to the Castro college scholarship funds at Northern Arizona University or the University of Arizona, or to the Raúl H. Castro Institute at Phoenix College.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
11 April 2015 Saturday 03:43

