NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
A member of Al Qaeda who led a firefight in Afghanistan in 2008 that killed an Army Ranger pleaded guilty on Tuesday in Brooklyn to four counts related to his terrorism activities.
Saddiq Al-Abbadi, 40, also helped get a Long Island man, Bryant Neal Vinas, into Al Qaeda , prosecutors said in court documents; Mr. Vinas, who later planned a bomb attack on the Long Island Rail Road that was not carried out, eventually became a cooperating witness for the government .
Mr. Al-Abbadi, a Yemeni man, faces a minimum of 30 years in prison, and a maximum of life, when he is sentenced in September. He delivered the guilty plea in Federal District Court in Brooklyn about four months after he was extradited to the United States from Saudi Arabia, where he had served five years of a 12-year sentence in a terrorism case.
Instead, they suggested, a military detention and interrogation would be more appropriate.
Mr. Al-Abbadi told the court on Tuesday that he “fought in Iraq between 2005 and 2009 against the United States of America with the intention to hurt, wound or kill these forces.” He also admitted to being a member of Al Qaeda and said he knew that the United States considered it a terrorist organization.
He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to murder American nationals abroad, to providing material support to a terrorist group, to conspiracy to provide that support and to unlawful use of firearms.
Mr. Al-Abbadi led attacks against American troops in Paktia Province, Afghanistan, in May and June 2008, prosecutors wrote in court papers. In the May battle, two Army Rangers were wounded and one was killed.
Two weeks later, he plotted another attack, planning on luring soldiers to a compound in Ghazni Province that was designed to blow up when they entered. However, an American soldier spotted suspicious wiring, and the soldiers backed off.
Mr. Al-Abbadi went from his home in Yemen to Iraq in 2003, according to a complaint filed by prosecutors. By 2008, he was fighting against American soldiers in Ghazni. Someone who later became a cooperating witness for the government — the witness is not named in the complaint — met Mr. Al-Abbadi and his co-defendant, Ali Alvi, at a Qaeda safe house in Pakistan. They both carried Kalashnikov rifles.
Mr. Al-Abbadi showed the witness a scar from a bullet wound that he got from fighting the United States military and Blackwater contractors in Iraq, and a video of him celebrating after a jihadist attack in Iraq.
In August 2008, the witness saw Mr. Al-Abbadi again at a mosque. Mr. Al-Abbadi said that he had fought in Ghazni, and that the fighting was good. Mr. Al-Abbadi was there to meet with Sheikh Saeed al-Masri, then the third-ranking member of Al Qaeda.
He also has strong ties to Al Qaeda’s Yemen branch, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, prosecutors wrote. Indeed, when the witness was having a hard time getting accepted into Al Qaeda in Pakistan, Mr. Al-Abbadi assured the witness he could get him into Al Qaeda in Yemen.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Qaeda Member Who Led Deadly Firefight Pleads Guilty in Brooklyn. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


A courtroom sketch shows Saddiq al-Abbadi as he pleads guilty during a hearing in Brooklyn federal court in New York May 26, 2015. Al-Abbadi, a Yemeni man who prosecutors said was a member of al Qaeda and engaged in attacks against U.S. military forces stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan, pleaded guilty on Tuesday to conspiring to kill Americans overseas.  REUTERS/Jane Rosenberg   ATTENTION EDITORS - FOR EDITORIAL USE ONLY. NOT FOR SALE FOR MARKETING OR ADVERTISING CAMPAIGNS. THIS IMAGE HAS BEEN SUPPLIED BY A THIRD PARTY. IT IS DISTRIBUTED, EXACTLY AS RECEIVED BY REUTERS, AS A SERVICE TO CLIENTS. NO SALES. NO ARCHIVES. NO COMMERCIAL USE
(Reuters). A Yemeni man who prosecutors said was a member of al Qaeda and engaged in attacks against U.S. military forces stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan pleaded guilty on Tuesday to conspiring to kill Americans overseas.
Saddiq al-Abbadi, 40, pleaded guilty in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, to four counts including conspiracy to murder U.S. nationals abroad and conspiracy to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization.
Al-Abbadi, who appeared in court with a black beard and wearing blue jail clothes said that during the period in question, “I and others agreed to provide material support to al Qaeda.”
The plea came after prosecutors in January unveiled charges against al-Abbadi and another Yemeni man, Ali Alvi al-Hamidi. Both men had been arrested in Saudi Arabia and were subsequently expelled.
Al-Abbadi faces up to life in prison. U.S. District Judge Nicholas Garaufis scheduled sentencing for Sept. 25. His lawyer declined to comment after the hearing.
Prosecutors have said that al-Abbadi fought against U.S. military forces in Iraq between 2003 and 2007, before traveling with Al-Hamidi to Pakistan in 2008 to train and fight with al Qaeda.
In mid-2008, al-Abbadi and al-Hamidi traveled from Pakistan to separate parts of Afghanistan to conduct attacks against the U.S. military, prosecutors said.
Al-Abbadi led at least two separate attacks against U.S. forces in Pakistan’s Paktya province, including one in May 2008 in which a U.S. Army Ranger died and several others were wounded, prosecutors said.
The pair also helped Bryant Neal Vinas, a Long Island, New York, man, join the Islamic militant group, prosecutors said in court documents. Vinas pleaded guilty in 2009 to helping al Qaeda plan an attack on the Long Island Rail Road.
Al-Abbadi had been a longtime member of al Qaeda, prosecutors said, and engaged directly with its senior leadership, including Abu Saeed al-Masri, its former third-ranking member who was killed in 2008.
Al-Abbadi was previously convicted in Saudi Arabia for plotting an al Qaeda attack there, and served 5-1/2 years of a 12-year prison sentence, according to court records.
Charges are pending against al-Hamidi, 30, who pleaded not guilty in February to five counts including conspiracy to murder U.S. nationals abroad and providing and attempting to provide of material support to a foreign terrorist organization.
05/26/2015 9:06 PM by JP Newsroom

