NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
A member of Al Qaeda who led a firefight in Afghanistan in 2008 that killed an Army Ranger pleaded guilty on Tuesday in Brooklyn to four counts related to his terrorism activities.
Saddiq Al-Abbadi, 40, also helped get a Long Island man, Bryant Neal Vinas, into Al Qaeda , prosecutors said in court documents; Mr. Vinas, who later planned a bomb attack on the Long Island Rail Road that was not carried out, eventually became a cooperating witness for the government .
Mr. Al-Abbadi, a Yemeni man, faces a minimum of 30 years in prison, and a maximum of life, when he is sentenced in September. He delivered the guilty plea in Federal District Court in Brooklyn about four months after he was extradited to the United States from Saudi Arabia, where he had served five years of a 12-year sentence in a terrorism case.
Instead, they suggested, a military detention and interrogation would be more appropriate.
Mr. Al-Abbadi told the court on Tuesday that he “fought in Iraq between 2005 and 2009 against the United States of America with the intention to hurt, wound or kill these forces.” He also admitted to being a member of Al Qaeda and said he knew that the United States considered it a terrorist organization.
He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to murder American nationals abroad, to providing material support to a terrorist group, to conspiracy to provide that support and to unlawful use of firearms.
Mr. Al-Abbadi led attacks against American troops in Paktia Province, Afghanistan, in May and June 2008, prosecutors wrote in court papers. In the May battle, two Army Rangers were wounded and one was killed.
Two weeks later, he plotted another attack, planning on luring soldiers to a compound in Ghazni Province that was designed to blow up when they entered. However, an American soldier spotted suspicious wiring, and the soldiers backed off.
Mr. Al-Abbadi went from his home in Yemen to Iraq in 2003, according to a complaint filed by prosecutors. By 2008, he was fighting against American soldiers in Ghazni. Someone who later became a cooperating witness for the government — the witness is not named in the complaint — met Mr. Al-Abbadi and his co-defendant, Ali Alvi, at a Qaeda safe house in Pakistan. They both carried Kalashnikov rifles.
Mr. Al-Abbadi showed the witness a scar from a bullet wound that he got from fighting the United States military and Blackwater contractors in Iraq, and a video of him celebrating after a jihadist attack in Iraq.
In August 2008, the witness saw Mr. Al-Abbadi again at a mosque. Mr. Al-Abbadi said that he had fought in Ghazni, and that the fighting was good. Mr. Al-Abbadi was there to meet with Sheikh Saeed al-Masri, then the third-ranking member of Al Qaeda.
He also has strong ties to Al Qaeda’s Yemen branch, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, prosecutors wrote. Indeed, when the witness was having a hard time getting accepted into Al Qaeda in Pakistan, Mr. Al-Abbadi assured the witness he could get him into Al Qaeda in Yemen.
A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 2015, on page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Qaeda Member Who Led Deadly Firefight Pleads Guilty in Brooklyn. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...


A
A
A
JANE ROSENBERG/REUTERS
A courtroom sketch shows Saddiq al-Abbadi (R) as he pleads guilty during a hearing in Brooklyn federal court in New York on Tuesday.
An Al Qaeda terrorist pleaded guilty Tuesday to fighting against U.S. military forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Saddiq Al-Abbadi, 40, also admitted in Brooklyn Federal Court to providing material support to a terrorist organization by using his connections to help Long Island wannabe jihadist Bryant Neil Vinas join Al Qaeda.
Al-Abbadi, a Yemeni national, told Judge Nicholas Garaufis that he wielded an AK-47 "machine gun" on the battlefield with intention to "hurt, wound and kill" American troops.
Prosecutors alleged that in May 2008, Al-Abbadi was the leader of mujahideen fighters in a gun battle that killed one U.S. Army Ranger in Afghanistan.
"Al-Abbadi has been a member of Al Qaeda for at least a decade…(and) he engaged directly with senior Al Qaeda leadership, including Sheikh Saeed al-Masri, the then third ranking member of Al Qaeda" in Pakistan, court papers state.
Al-Abbadi and his co-defendant Ali Alvi, who has pleaded not guilty to the charges, were captured in Saudi Arabia and turned over to U.S. authorities.
They were ratted out by Vinas, who received Al Qaeda military training and suggested a plot to attack the Long Island Railroad before he was captured and became a cooperating witness for the government.
Al-Abbadi faces 30 years to life in prison when he is sentenced in September.
Related Stories
Crime Video
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

