Chicago's Mayor Rahm Emanuel attends an opening ceremony for the Yelp Inc. offices in Chicago, Illinois, March 5, 2015.
Reuters/Jim Young
right
Chicago Mayoral candidate Jesus 'Chuy' Garcia and his wife Evelyn arrive at a restaurant for lunch, on election day in Chicago, Illinois, February 24, 2015.
Reuters/Jim Young
right
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel won re-election on Tuesday against challenger Jesus "Chuy" Garcia in a hard-fought race to lead a city on the brink of financial crisis and plagued by violent crime.
Emanuel, 55, who has spent millions of dollars on television and radio ads in his bid for re-election, was leading by 56 percent of the vote to 44 percent for Garcia with 79 percent of precincts reporting, according to the city's Board of Election Commissioners. Turnout was 44 percent.
An aide to former U.S. presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, Emanuel finished first among five candidates in February, but did not get the 50 percent of the vote needed to win the nonpartisan election outright. Garcia, 58, a Cook County commissioner and a former state senator and alderman, finished second.
Garcia campaign officials said he had called Emanuel to concede.
Over a six-week-long non-partisan race, the battle between Democrats Emanuel and Garcia became a symbol for a national divide between the party's moderates and the less well-funded progressive wing.
Emanuel, who has been criticized for closing 50 public schools, as well as for violent crime and for what some call an arrogant manner, fought to rehabilitate himself with voters. He acknowledged in television ads that he can be abrasive, but said he fights for Chicago.
"Rahm may be a jerk but this is not a personality contest. It's about who can lead this city forward," said Alison Street, 46, a manager at a nonprofit organization, speaking at a polling place. "Rahm has a plan."
Emanuel attacked Garcia for lacking a plan to deal with the city's fiscal problems, which include a budget deficit expected to grow to $1.2 billion by next year due to public pension payments.
Kythzia Jurado, 40, a graphic design and Garcia supporter who was wiping away tears over his defeat, said she is worried about what will happen to the schools with Emanuel staying in office.
"My main concern is that Rahm will continue to ignore the neighborhoods and focus on downtown, Jurado said.
Don Rose, a political consultant and advisor to Garcia, said  Emanuel called upon Garcia for a budget plan, when he lacked one himself.
“Emanuel has to come up with a plan to get us out of the financial hole he helped put us in,” Rose said.
(Reporting by Mary Wisniewski; Additional reporting by Tracy Rucinski, P.J. Huffstutter, Suzannah Gonzales and Agnieszka Zielinska; Editing by Lisa Shumaker )
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

