#98 Bright Idea
It's an anomaly that businesses still place emphasis on dying newsprint and ignore online social news.
- Fi Bendall
Forbes reveals the world’s 18 most powerful female entrepreneurs
Wednesday, 27 May 2015 2:16
Eloise Keating
Share
From philanthropy to entertainment and e-commerce, the entrepreneurs on this year’s Forbes list of the World’s 100 Most Powerful Women come from varied backgrounds.
But the thing these women have in common is they have built their power from scratch.
Each year Forbes produces a list of the world’s 100 most powerful women and this year the publication has also ranked the entrepreneurs to make the list .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has been named the world’s most powerful woman for the past five years, and this year is followed by US presidential candidate Hilary Clinton in second place and philanthropist Melinda Gates in third.
Mining heiress Gina Rinehart is the only Australian woman to make this year’s list of the World’s 100 Most Powerful Women, with Forbes describing her as “the queen of the global iron-ore trade”.
However, Rinehart has slipped 10 places on this year’s list, coming in at number 37 instead of the 27th spot she held on the same list last year. Forbes estimates Rinehart’s wealth to be $US12.2 billion ($15.7 billion).
Rinehart also topped Forbes 2015 list of the 50 richest people in Australia but unlike SmartCompany, Forbes has chosen not to classify Rinehart as an entrepreneur .
Instead, here are the 18 women that Forbes believes are the world’s most powerful female entrepreneurs.
Melinda Gates' philanthropic work placed her at number one. 
 
1. Melinda Gates
Number three on the overall Forbes list, Gates has been honoured for her philanthropy work as co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which has donated more than $US26 billion in grants since 1998.
2. Oprah
The popular talk-show host came in at 12th spot on this year’s Forbes list thanks to the ongoing success of her film production company Harpo, which co-produced award-winning film Selma. Forbes said Oprah also “rakes in millions” from the television personalities she has helped launch, including Dr Phil.
3. Beyonce
At number 21 on the overall list, Beyonce has also taken out the title of the highest ranked entertainer this year. According to Forbes, the entertainer’s recent On the Run tour with her husband Jay Z grossed more than $US100 million in North America alone.
Who run the world? Beyonce.
 
4. Lucy Peng
One of the founders of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, Peng has been ranked the 33rd most powerful woman in the world. She manages Alibaba’s small and micro financial services group.
5. Laurene Powell Jobs
Jobs is the founder of the Emerson Collective, an organisation that helps under-resourced students, and is ranked 44 on this year’s Forbes list.
6. Beth Comstock
Comstock is the founder of Hulu and number 55 on this year’s list. Since leaving Hulu, she has taken on the role of leading GE’s Business Innovations Unit, which includes GE lighting, ventures and licensing, software commercialisation and corporate marketing, sales and communication.
7. Sofia Vergara
At number 57 on this year’s list, Vergara is well known for her television and film acting roles, including the sitcom Modern Family. But she is also the co-founder of talent management and media company Latin World Entertainment and the founder of social networking site NuevoWorld.
8. Arianna Huffington
The founder and editor-in-chief of the Huffington Post is number 61 on this year’s list of powerful women. Huffington is also a columnist, radio host and the author of 14 books.
Publisher Ariana Huffington commands the room.
 
9. Zhang Xin
Zhang Xin holds the 69th position on this year’s list. She is the co-founder of Soho China, one of China’s largest property developers.
10. Elizabeth Holmes
At 31, Holmes is regarded as the world’s youngest self-made female billionaire. Making her debut on the Forbes list this year, Holmes is the founder of blood testing company Theranos and is worth an estimated $US4.6 billion.
11. Tory Burch
Burch is the founder of the $US3 billion Tory Burch fashion label and number 73 on this year’s list. She has also teamed up with the Bank of America to launch Elizabeth Street Capital, an organisation to help other female entrepreneurs access low-cost capital.
12. Diane von Furstenberg
Also representing the fashion industry, von Furstenberg is ranked the 75th most powerful woman in the world. Her designs are sold in more than 55 countries and she supports numerous other organisations through her Diller-von Furstenberg Family Foundation.
13. Shakira Mebarak
Mebarak has sold more than 60 million albums worldwide since launching her music career at the age of 13 and is Colombia’s highest-selling artist of all time. But the 81st most powerful woman in the world has interests outside of music, signing an agreement with Fisher-Price in late 2014 to develop a line of toys and a web series.
14. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw
At number 85 on this year’s list, Shaw is the founder of Biocon and considered India’s first biotech entrepreneur.
Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw talks tech.
15. Folorunsho Alakija
Alakija is Nigeria’s only female billionaire and number 87 on this year’s list. She is the founder of Supreme Stiches, an elite clothing brand in Nigeria, and oil prospector Famfa Oil.
16. Judy Faulkner
Coming in at number 88 on this year’s list is Judy Faulkner, the entrepreneur who coded the original software for Epic System in 1979. Today, Faulkner leads Epic System’s private healthcare company, which is worth an estimated $US1.8 billion.
17. Sara Blakely
Blakely is the founder and owner of women’s lingerie brand Spanx and number 91 on this year’s list. She is also one of a group of investors who paid $US730 million for the Atlanta Hawks basketball team earlier this year.
18. Weili Dai
At number 95 on this year’s list, Dai is the president of Marvell Technology and the only female co-founder of a major semiconductor company. 
smartcompany.com.au
Keywords |
Related Articles
Connect with me on LinkedIn
Eloise Keating is the deputy editor of SmartCompany. Previously, Eloise was news editor at Books+Publishing, the trade press for the Australian book industry.
TechCompany
1
2
5
2
5
SmartCompany.com.au is Australia's leading website for SMEs featuring business news, business information and business blogs. SmartCompany's archive of news, feature articles, entrepreneur interviews and business webinars cover topics such as advertising and marketing, buying or selling a business, starting a business, growing a business, franchising, SEO, superannuation and tax.
EDITOR: Cara Waters
SIGN UP...
to the SmartCompany eNewsletter today for your daily dose of the latest business news, trends and tips to stay ahead of your competition
Receive special offers from related companies
Receive invitations to SmartCompany’s free webinars
Receive TechCompany, SmartCompany’s weekly tech update
Some know me as the
Business Bitch. Others just call
me Aunty B. I'm Smartcompany's
Or you can email:

