DES MOINES — If you were an upstart candidate looking to build an army for a presidential campaign, here are four things you would look for in your recruits: a deep network, a ferocious commitment, a disregard for the establishment and a flexible schedule.
That is probably why four likely GOP presidential candidates found themselves Thursday in the ballroom of a Holiday Inn across the road from the airport, making their case to an audience of about 400 home-schoolers.
“Do what you’ve done in the past — what you did in ’08, what you did in ’12 — which is to look at the candidates and trust your own judgment,” said Rick Santorum, the former U.S. senator from Pennsylvania who narrowly won the Iowa caucuses last time. “Do not defer to the experts. If you hear the term out of anybody’s mouth about ‘electability,’ run for the hills.”
Social conservatives are a crucial component of the Republican base in Iowa — and a group that is thought to be up for grabs in 2016.
If recent campaigns are any indication, a key subset of that group — families that choose to educate their children themselves, often for religious reasons — will be some of the most important political foot soldiers in the GOP.
Huckabee, left, U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.), Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal (R) and former U.S. senator Rick Santorum (R-Pa.) gather on stage after speaking at Homeschool Iowa’s Capitol Day on April 9, 2015, in Des Moines. (Charlie Neibergall/AP)
The modern home-schooling movement is generally traced to the 1970s and liberal theorists such as John Holt, who argued that compulsory education in a classroom was authoritarian and stifled creativity.
It began gaining popularity among evangelicals and other social conservatives a decade later, in part as a backlash against public school curricula that they saw as contradicting their values.
Across the country, about 3 percent of the school-age population was being educated at home in the 2011-2012 school year, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.
In 2012, a total of 10,700 Iowa children were registered with the state as receiving “private instruction” — just over 2 percent of the average Iowa school district’s population.
The figure is now believed to be larger, although no one knows by how much. The state deregulated home-schooling in 2013 and no longer requires parents to formally notify the state when they decide to educate their own children, or to submit to having the children’s progress monitored. The passage of that law, similar to legislation in a growing number of states, is a testament to the political power of the home-schooling movement.
Former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee — again a potential presidential candidate — said Thursday that home-schoolers were “a great part of our coalition” when he won the Iowa caucuses in 2008.
“It’s not only the number of people, but the level of energy they gave,” he said. “If they’re committed, they are all in.”
Huckabee joined Santorum, Sen. Ted Cruz (Tex.) and Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal for a roundtable at the Network of Iowa Christian Home Educators’ annual lobbying day on Thursday. Former Texas governor Rick Perry, although not on the roundtable, appeared with the home-schooler group at the state capitol, where members were making the rounds for their annual lobbying day.
Before his appearance with his three potential rivals, Huckabee held another session in the same hotel with fellow Arkansans Jim Bob and Michelle Duggar — easily the most famous home-schooling couple in the country, thanks to their enormous family and its starring role in the TLC reality show “19 Kids and Counting.”
“Governor Huckabee has not announced yet, but we’re begging him to run,” Jim Bob Duggar said in an interview. “Our country needs spiritual leadership. There’s such a void right now.”
Although Huckabee and Santorum are the most familiar potential candidates to social conservatives in Iowa, and have previously done well with that portion of the electorate, politically active home-schooling families said they are also intrigued by some of the newer faces.
They are also finding fresh urgency in a campaign season in which “religious freedom” has become a rallying cry on the right and opposition to Common Core education standards runs strong.
“What I hear a lot is everybody is excited that we have a lot of strong people to choose from,” said Vicki Crawford, a home-schooling and campaign veteran who worked for Huckabee in 2008 and then-Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.) in 2012. “In the past, it has been maybe one or two.”
“Those who have been here before have a loyal following, obviously,” added Barb Heki, another leader of the home-schooling movement. “But I think a lot of Iowans are taking a starting-from-scratch attitude.”
Daniel Gibbins, a home-schooler and father of four from Vinton, sought out Cruz after the event and told him: “We’ll be praying for you. I’m voting for you.”
In the past, Gibbins said, “we voted for Republican candidates, but we weren’t happy with them — not happy at all.” Gibbins found the 2012 field so uninspiring, he said, that he cannot even recall which candidate he supported in the caucuses.
But with the firebrand Cruz in the race, “it feels like there’s a huge difference this time around,” he said.
Home-schoolers often have qualities that make them particularly valuable as campaign volunteers, political veterans say.
“By their very nature, they take on big things, and they’re self-starters, and they’re great volunteers,” Santorum said.
They form tight and active networks, in part because they are constantly sharing ideas, often in Internet chatrooms, about teaching methods and curricula. They also tend to be stalwarts in their churches, conservative Christian groups, and tea party organizations. Plus, their hours are flexible.
Huckabee recalled seeing home-schooling parents diligently working in his campaign offices as their children napped on the floor. Children as young as 8 or 9 were put to work on his phone banks, he said.
Nor do any of the candidates want to get on the wrong side of this slice of the conservative electorate. Although many of them view former Florida governor Jeb Bush with suspicion — in part because of his continued support for Common Core standards — he recently told a gathering in Denver: “Home-schooling is the fastest-growing part of the student population in this country, and it’s something that should be encouraged.”
“We have a Florida virtual school that’s the largest of its kind in the country,” Bush boasted then. “Thirty to 40 percent of the families taking advantage of that in Florida were home-schooled kids. They were taking courses that mom or dad couldn’t necessarily teach at home.”
Many home-schooling parents argue that there is educational value in giving their children campaign experience. Heki, for instance, said that having her four children work in George W. Bush’s reelection campaign in 2004 helped them in at least 20 academic areas, including public relations and management. By the time it was over, she said, her offspring were helping train adult volunteers.
“We live in a self-governing republic. We need to teach the next generation to be critical thinkers for themselves and for us,” Jindal told the home-schooling group Thursday. “So I want to thank you for doing that every day, in your homes, in your churches, in your lives.”
Ed O’Keefe contributed to this report.
Karen Tumulty is a national political correspondent for The Washington Post, where she received the 2013 Toner Prize for Excellence in Political Reporting.
Continue reading
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

