Search
Photo
Senator Mitch McConnell in 2014 with one thing Republican candidates will agree upon: a gun.Credit Drew Angerer for The New York Times
Good Friday morning from Washington. Former Gov. Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island says he’s considering running for president, and Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia sees Lee’s surrender to Grant as a model for national grace. President Obama continues his trip to Panama, by way of Jamaica and Bob Marley‘s house, and the friendship between Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and Jeb Bush, the state’s former governor, may be tested in a Republican primary. In Tennessee, however, the Republican candidates and potential candidates will have plenty to agree with at the annual National Rifle Association leadership conference.
Welcome to the rare gathering of Republican presidential candidates (and those still “actively exploring”) where nearly everyone will agree with one another.
The National Rifle Association’s annual leadership conference, held on Friday in Nashville, is the biggest gathering of Republican presidential hopefuls since the Conservative Political Action Conference. This year’s convention is drawing, among others, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida; Rick Santorum, the former Pennsylvania senator; Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin; Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana; Senator Marco Rubio of Florida; and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.
All the candidates and potential candidates enjoy high ratings from the N.R.A. – none has a grade lower than an A-minus – so don’t expect much discord.
The candidates will be challenged to stand out from one another and to excite the room beyond who has a bigger gun collection. (According to The Washington Post, that honor goes to Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who owns 12.)
Though little drama is expected, the event still comes with risks. The N.R.A.’s hard-line advertising tactics can sometimes rub politicians the wrong way. (Note Gov. Chris Christie’s reaction to the N.R.A. ad that mentioned President Obama’s daughters ; also note that Mr. Christie is not invited to speak on Friday.) And some noncandidate attendees have proven to be political burdens for candidates. Ted Nugent, for example, caused headaches for Mitt Romney at the 2012 N.R.A. convention when he made vaguely threatening remarks against Mr. Obama.
 — Nick Corasaniti
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky is campaigning in Iowa.
Former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland and former Senator Jim Webb of Virginia will speak at the Polk County Democrats’ Spring Awards Dinner in Iowa.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will speak on job-training programs in Oakland, Calif., and Jill Biden will discuss the Obama administration’s “commitment to community colleges” at De Anza College in Cupertino, Calif.
The Republican-turned-independent-turned-Democrat said suddenly on Thursday that he was exploring a run for president (as a Democrat) and swiftly threw some rhetorical barbs at Hillary Rodham Clinton , who is expected to declare this month.
While prognosticators have been busy trying to predict who might challenge Mrs. Clinton for the Democratic nomination, Mr. Chafee’s name was not in the mix. In 2013, he stood in the parking lot of a motor-vehicles office in Cranston, R.I., and said he was would not seek re-election as governor because he was tired of the business of campaigning.
What has Mr. Chafee been doing since leaving office?
“Breathing,” he told First Draft. “I’ve enjoyed not having to plow the snow and fill the potholes.”
But Mr. Chafee says that he’s given a lot of thought to foreign affairs in recent years and that Mrs. Clinton’s support for the Iraq war and her family foundation’s acceptance of foreign donations are problems for a Democratic president.
Democrats did not flinch at Mr. Chafee’s decision, and Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, welcomed him into the mix.
Mr. Chafee said he was aware of the obstacles he would face against Mrs. Clinton and said he had no time frame for making a formal announcement. He expressed optimism, however, that a Chafee campaign could catch on.
“I’m ready to get back to work,” he said.
– Alan Rappeport
The Upshot says that though the Republican field may look chaotic, the candidates can already be sorted into roles that say a lot about their chances of winning the nomination.
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky is accepting bitcoins as campaign donations, a payment method that is likely to help him highlight his edgy appeal, but also raises questions about whether illegal contributions could make their way into campaigns more easily.
As a senior adviser on climate policy, Brian Deese is pushing the president’s environmental agenda to governors while under attack by Congress and a hostile coal industry.
In a birthday tribute in 2012, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said that Jeb Bush, a former governor, was a “huge influence” on him and that in the Senate he often would ask himself, “What would Jeb do?,” highlighting a friendship that is sure to be tested if the two compete against each other in the Republican primaries.
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky defended himself against critics who questioned his more restrained foreign policy and his campaign sent a letter to TV stations demanding they stop playing a scathing ad comparing his Iran policy to President Obama‘s.
George W. Bush‘s victory in 2000 seems to clash with Senator Ted Cruz‘s argument that Republicans can win the White House only by being boldly conservative.
Neither President Obama nor Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. made any mention yesterday of the 150th anniversary of the Civil War’s end in Appomattox, Va. But a senator who is considered to be among Hillary Rodham Clinton‘s prospects for vice president used a commemoration of Lee’s surrender to Grant to make a plea for a more unified country.
“America in 2015 is not as sharply split as during the time of the Civil War, but anyone watching the news knows that we are too divided,” Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, said at Appomattox on Thursday.
“Each of us knows personally that we can do better,” he said. “We also know that our failures are not an indictment of our national ideals, but instead of our very human inability to fully live up to them.”
Mr. Kaine praised the magnanimous nature of the surrender, and he issued a call for a similar spirit.
“So will we look for new opportunities to lay down arms – physical, verbal, spiritual – and unify one with another?” he asked.
– Jonathan Martin
Peter Beinart of The Atlantic asks, “Where are the antiwar Democrats on Iran?”
NBC News reports that the White House has “designated a gender-neutral restroom for visitors and staffers — the latest in a series of steps the administration has taken to protect the rights of members of the L.G.B.T. community.”
Before the Season 4 premiere of “Veep,” The Huffington Post provides “tidbits” from a panel attended by some of the cast members, including that “Republicans think the show is about Democrats, and Democrats think the show is about Republicans.”
Newsweek compares Wisconsin’s and Florida’s barring state employees from discussing climate change to the world of Harry Potter and the fear of saying the name of He Who Must Not Be Named.
About First Draft
First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com .
Politics Newsletter
We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.

