Wednesday 27 May 2015 | 08:53 CET  | News
Twitter has launched its Periscope live streaming app on Android OS, supporting handsets and tablets running 4.4 KitKat and higher. Periscope was first developed for Apple iOS. Periscope on Android is available at the Google Play store. It has all of the core features of the iOS version, including starting a private or public broadcast, choosing to allow comments from followed contacts, and interacting with a broadcaster by chatting or sending hearts. 
There are some new features unique to Android. These include a “Material-inspired design” that should feel familiar to Android users, granular control over additional push notification settings, and a “Resume notification” so users can keep watching where they left off in case a broadcast gets interrupted by a phone call or message. 
Furthermore, replays are saved without requiring the broadcaster to upload a file, which will save time and preserve their mobile data allowance. The team that developed the app for Android writes in a blog post, “This is just the beginning for Periscope on Android. We have many exciting features and improvements in the works.”
Free Headlines in your E-mail
Every day we send out a free e-mail with the most important headlines of the last 24 hours. Subscribe now.
Register an account with Telecompaper
We welcome comments that add value to the discussion. We attempt to block comments that use offensive language or appear to be spam, and our editors frequently review the comments to ensure they are appropriate. If you see a comment that you believe is inappropriate to the discussion, you can bring it to our attention by using the report abuse links. As the comments are written and submitted by visitors of the Telecompaper website, they in no way represent the opinion of Telecompaper.
Related Info
United Kingdom  |  2014 Q4
Telecompaper
We have been keeping professionals in the telecoms industry up-to-date since 2000. Telecompaper is a well respected, independent research and publishing company focussed on the telecommunications industry.
tp:news
tp:research
tp:events
Legal Information
© 2000 - 2015 Telecom.paper BV. All rights reserved.                     Telecompaper is a trademark of Telecom.paper BV. No part of this site can be reproduced without                      the expressed permission of Telecom.paper BV. Our General Terms and Conditions can be found here .
OK

