Newsletter may include personalized content. Learn more .
2015-05-26 13:39:22
2015-05-26 12:33:33
38 minutes ago
BEVERLY HILLS, CA - JULY 27:  Dancer Bristol Palin speaks onstage at the 'Dancing with the Stars: All-Stars' panel during the Disney/ABC Television Group portion of the 2012 Summer TCA Tour on July 27, 2012 in Beverly Hills, California.  (Photo by Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images) | Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images
One week after former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin (R) announced that her daughter, Bristol, would no longer marry Medal of Honor recipient Dakota Meyer, the daughter of the 2008 vice presidential candidate is breaking her silence on the canceled nuptials.
"I guess you have seen by now that the wedding -- that was supposed to happen last weekend --was called off," Bristol Palin wrote on her blog . "I'm sure you’ve seen this has been all over the media, but this is a painful time for family and friends and I would just really appreciate your prayers."
She continued: "I know God’s plan is greater than anything else, and Tripp and I are in Alaska beginning to rebuild our lives under much different circumstances than we anticipated."
Palin and Meyer announced their engagement in March, and were to be married on May 23. After the couple called their wedding off, Sarah Palin said friends and family still planned to gather in Kentucky to " celebrate life, in general ."
Bristol Palin, however, spent the day with friends in Alaska, and shared photos of her weekend on Instagram:
A photo posted by Bristol Palin (@bsmp2) on
May 23, 2015 at 5:16pm PDT
of
More:
Conversations
Options
Politics
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Facebook
HuffPost
Politics
Twitter
HuffPost
Follow
Politics
Follow
Part of HPMG News
Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)
* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg
Sign me up for The Morning Email
Thanks for your report!

