Samsung Unveils Limited Edition of Galaxy S6 Edge
Samsung Electronics has unveiled the "Iron Man" edition of its Galaxy S6 Edge.
The electronics giant said Tuesday that only 1,000 units of the limited edition are available for preorder from Wednesday.
The back of the vibrant red and gold phone features the Iron Man mask and serial number.
The 64-GB smartphone comes with a price tag of around W1.2 million and is available through all three mobile carriers (US$1=W1,107).
englishnews@chosun.com /       May 27, 2015 09:55 KST


Samsung to launch Note 5 and Note 5 Edge at IFA Berlin 2015IBTimes India
Samsung looks all set to release its next flagship smartphone in its most popular Note series.
According to  DigitalTimes , Samsung might launch the smartphone in the upcoming IFA 2015 event, which is set to take place in Berlin, Germany. The earlier edition, Galaxy Note 4, along with the Galaxy Note Edge variant was also released during the last year's IFA event.
Samsung Mobile president J.K.Shin denied the earlier rumours that Samsung might launch the Note 5 smartphone in July to take on Apple's most anticipated release iPhone 6s. He has also denied the rumors regarding the Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge's poor performance.
Models
According to Sammobile , Samsung might iterate the edge theory with upcoming Note devices too and might launch the Galaxy Note 5 with a curvy Edge edition. Samsung has internally named the ambitious project as Project Zero 2 with a device code name of SM-G928. The report further points out that Samsung might sacrifice the S Pen stylus and would be functionally quite similar to Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge.
Specification
With a code name of Project Noble, the Samsung Galaxy Note 5 is rumoured to feature a super AMOLED display with either 2K or 4K resolution. The display is expected to be measured between 5.4 to 5.5 inches. For the performance, the Note 5 might pack an updated Exynos 7422 processor accompanied by 4GB Ram.
On the camera side the Note 5 is purported to feature a 16MP snapper with OIS (Optical Image Stabilisation) feature and an 8MP or 5MP camera sensor in the front.
The Edge variant of Note 5 aka Project Zero 2 is expected to feature a similar super AMOLED display with curves on both the side. This edition might come powered by a hexa-core Snapdragon 808 processor and 32GB storage. On the camera front the device might feature similar 16MP+ 8M/5MP camera combination.
Benchmark and Operating System
A week ago the Galaxy Note 5 device was spotted the HTML5 Test benchmark site by GSMArena . The device appeared with a model name Zenzero and scored 503 in the test. The result further shows that the device runs on Android 5.1.1 Lollipop operating system.
Related
OTHER NEWS

