Samsung Unveils Limited Edition of Galaxy S6 Edge
Samsung Electronics has unveiled the "Iron Man" edition of its Galaxy S6 Edge.
The electronics giant said Tuesday that only 1,000 units of the limited edition are available for preorder from Wednesday.
The back of the vibrant red and gold phone features the Iron Man mask and serial number.
The 64-GB smartphone comes with a price tag of around W1.2 million and is available through all three mobile carriers (US$1=W1,107).
englishnews@chosun.com /       May 27, 2015 09:55 KST


The Iron Man themed Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge is awesome, but you can't have one
The Iron Man themed Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge is awesome, but you can't have one
SAMSUNG has unveiled an Iron Man Edition of its latest flagship smartphone, the Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge.
SAMSUNG
Samsung has teamed up with Marvel Studios to promote the release of Avengers: Age of Ultron
The South Korean company has teamed up with Marvel Studios to promote the release of Avengers: Age of Ultron.
We are excited to be able to offer our world-class Galaxy S6 edge smartphone designed especially for Iron Man fans
Younghee Lee
The result of this collaboration is a brilliant-red and gold Galaxy S6 Edge designed to match the Iron Man suit.
Avengers: Age of Ultron is the eleventh film in Marvel Cinematic Universe and the direct sequel to The Avengers – which became the third highest-grossing film of all-time after its release in 2012.
Iron Man, played by Robert Downey Jr, is one of the main protagonists in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
Samsung has branded the back of the phone with a gold drawing of the Iron Man helmet.
There is also a gold ring around the 16megapixel rear camera.
A limited edition wireless charging dock designed to look like the Arc Reactor designed by Tony Stark in the Marvel film series comes bundled with the flagship smartphone.
Unfortunately, British Marvel fanboys and girls are unlikely to get their hands on the custom Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge.
Samsung has revealed the 1,000 unit run will be available in Korea on May 27th 2015, and in China and Hong Kong by June.
But that's it. No availability in Europe, or the United States.
Related articles
Executive Vice President of Global Marketing for Samsung, Younghee Lee said: "We are excited to be able to offer our world-class Galaxy S6 edge smartphone designed especially for Iron Man fans through our continued collaboration with Marvel.
"The limited edition Iron Man Galaxy S6 edge embodies the power of the iconic Avenger with a dual-curved edge design and advanced features that will provide Marvel fans with the ultimate entertainment experience."
Samsung released a Marvel Avengers theme for its Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge last month.
The limited edition theme includes a choice of custom wallpapers, lock screens and app icons.
Wednesday, 27th May 2015
See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,                      order back issues and use the historic Daily Express                      newspaper archive.

