  A chance to turn anger, into votes in Ferguson, Missouri.
  Residents will head to the polls Tuesday to elect new members to city council.
  It comes eight months after an unarmed African-American teen was shot and killed by a white police officer, sparking protests in the city and nationwide.
  Kyung Lah reports.
   "My name is Wesley Bell, and I'm running for city council."
  Candidate Wesley Bell is part of a sea of change in Ferguson.
  The first large group of African-Americans running for city government.
  "I'm running for city council."
  A council that's traditionally been white, just like the police department, while the city is mostly black.
  This election, three of the council's six seats are vacant.
  And, for the first time in its history, Ferguson could see half its city government represented by African-Americans.
  "You gotta fold up or show up," says Wesley Bell, Ferguson City Council candidate. "And if you're gonna be a part of the solution, you gotta put your foot out there and do it. Right now, we are in Ward 3, in Ferguson. This is the ward where the tragedy occurred."
  The tragedy, less than a mile away, where a Ferguson Police officer shot Michael Brown.
  "If you're not in office, you're limited in what you can do," Bell says. "I just felt helpless."
  So did Adrienne Hawkins,
  "I watched the buildings burn from my house," says Hawkins, also a Ferguson City Council candidate.
  Hawkins has no political past.
  But her resume is thick with a life lived in Ferguson and as a single working mother to 20-year-old twins.
  "The thought of my child not returning home because he's black and walking down the street is something I couldn't even fathom," Hawkins says. "As I listened to the sounds of war, I was like, somebody has to do something."
  "Months after those nights of violent protests, the scars still litter West Florrisant Avenue," says CNN's Kyung Lah. "This simple city council election, the next step in the long road to Ferguson's recovery."
  This time, from the inside out.
  Candidate Bob Hudgins, who protested on the city's streets, now wants to represent them.
  "I'm the guy," he says.
  Part of his message, he's not what he looks like.
  One married to a black woman, father to a biracial child.
  "So, you're out here courting the black vote?" asks CNN's Kyung Lah.
  "Yes, I am," says Bob Hudgins, a Ferguson City Council candidate. As hard as I can. That's most of the voters."
  Has change arrived for the average person in Ferguson?
  The last city election saw less than 13 percent turnout.
  "Did you vote in the last city election?" asks CNN's Kyung Lah of one Ferguson resident.
  "The last city election?" asks Dominic Tobias, a voter. "Nah, I didn't vote in the last city election, but this time I will."
 
 
 
 
 
St. Mark's Lutheran Church  held its annual Sunrise  Service at Kingwood Center for  the 59th year in a row. Full Story
 
Over 200 cats (and their  owners) attended the Mid-Ohio  Cat Fanciers Cat Show this  weekend, letting their furry  friends strut their stuff. Full Story
Several Easter Egg Hunts were  held around the Ontario and  Mansfield area this weekend,  providing fun for the whole  family. Full Story
  MORE NEWS  

