Back
Back
Richard Locker
41 mins ago
Michael Patrick
Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Show Caption
Hide Caption
Previous
Next
NASHVILLE — Ever tweeted a selfie of yourself voting? Or taken a quick photo of the long line you had to endure at the polling place, or of your child’s first visit with you to the voting booth? Did you quietly call your spouse while in line to vote to see if you need to bring home milk or bread?
Or more seriously, ever recorded video of an election official challenging or denying your right to vote?
Do any of those things again starting next year and you’ll violate the law under a bill nearing final legislative approval in Nashville.
Both the Senate and House have approved Senate Bill 597 which says “any voter using a mobile electronic or communication device ... shall be prohibited from using the device for telephone conversations, recording or taking photographs or videos while inside the polling place.”
State law already defines “polling place” as “the room or rooms where voters apply to vote and mark and cast their ballots.”
The Senate approved the bill 33-0 last month and the House approved it 75-23 Monday night but added an amendment altering its effective date from immediately after it becomes law to Jan. 1, 2016. It returns to the Senate, probably Thursday, for concurrence with that amendment.
The two-part bill is sponsored by Rep. Mary Littleton, R-Dickson, a candidate for chairman of the Tennessee Republican Party next week, and Sen. Brian Kelsey, R-Germantown.
The first part forbids county election commissions from stopping voters from using a mobile device at a polling place “for informational purposes to assist the voter in making election decisions.” It allows election commissions to require the device be silenced.
The bill won unanimous, bipartisan Senate approval with no debate last month when it was one of 44 bills on a “consent” calendar approved en masse with one vote and no discussion. It ran into opposition in the House Monday night when Democrats questioned why the Republican sponsors wanted to prohibit voters from recording possible vote fraud or difficulties with their cellphones.
Rep. Mike Stewart, D-Nashville, presented an amendment saying the prohibition on photos and videos inside the voting place “is not going to be used to squelch legitimate photography to capture election fraud.
“Obviously we don’t want people chatting on the phone and disturbing other voters, however I think it’s important that we don’t inadvertently prevent voters from using their cameras to record intimidation or fraud in the polling place.”
Stewart’s amendment would have required any recording intimidation or fraud to turn over a copy of the recording to election officials immediately.
“I’m concerned that without this amended, this bill will outlaw people using their cameras to capture voter fraud or intimidation in the polling place,” he said.
But House Republican Caucus Chairman Glen Casada of Franklin moved immediately to table the bill, and the majority Republicans voted 68-26 on a straight party line to kill the amendment.
Rep. Bo Mitchell, D-Nashville, said that without the amendment, the bill will criminalize law-abiding citizens who see something happening in a polling place and record it.
“In Davidson County two years ago after the election, the state election coordinator put out a 20-page report on ... all the improprieties that happened in that election and a lot of that we were able to document using phones and video,” Mitchell said. “Now we’re going to have law-abiding citizens committing a crime.”
House Majority Leader Gerald McCormick, R-Chattanooga, then immediately moved to cut off debate on the bill, which Republicans approved 66-25 on another party line vote.
The bill then won approval, without the amendment, with all Republicans plus two Democrats — Reps. John DeBerry of Memphis and Brenda Gilmore of Nashville — voting for the bill and all other Democrats voting against it.
Copyright 2015 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Subscribe to the News Sentinel
Ready to subscribe to the News Sentinel? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.
Need Help? Call us at 1-877-304-7769.
Monday – Friday: 7 a.m. – 3 p.m. / Saturday & Sunday: 7 a.m. – 11 a.m.
Comments
Want to participate in the conversation? Log in or become a subscriber today.  Subscribers can read and comment on any story, anytime.  Non-subscribers will only be able to view comments on select stories.
Stay Connected

