Tinder Causes Spike In STDs
Posted by: Will Phoenix 1 hour ago
STDs are on the rise because of Tinder
According to a new study by the Rhode Island Department of Health, STDs (sexually transmitted diseases) are on the rise across the country. Despite the fact that efforts to prevent, treat and make people aware of ways to reduce syphilis and gonorrhea, new cases are coming to light on a regular basis throughout the US. Health experts blame it on Tinder, Grindr, Craigslist and other social media/apps.
Swipe for STDs/Image: Twitter
The new report includes some revelatory information. Some of the highlights include the fact that the number of gonorrhea cases has gone up by approximately 30 percent. Cases of syphilis have risen by almost 80 percent.
The data also indicated that HIV cases have gone up by 33 percent. New cases of HIV/AIDS and even infectious syphilis cases are rising at a faster rate among gay, bisexual and other men who engage in sexual intercourse with men than in any other group. Overall, infectious rates of all STDs are still higher among Hispanic, African-American and young adults than any other group.
Alexander-Scott, one of the researchers, said: “These data send a clear signal that despite the progress we have made in reducing STDs and HIV over the years, there is more work to do. We are fortunate in Rhode Island to have great partnerships among state agencies, community-based organizations, and healthcare providers to continue to educate, test, and treat for sexually transmitted diseases. This trend reminds us that we cannot become complacent.”
Rosemary Reilly-Chammat, the RIDE (Rhode Island Department of Education) HIV/AIDS sexuality specialist stated: “These new data underscore the importance of encouraging young people to begin talking to a doctor, nurse, or health educator about sexual health before becoming sexually active and especially after becoming sexually active.”
The investigative team concluded: “It’s never too early to learn about making HIV and STD testing part of routine healthcare. Doctors and nurses are trained to discuss sensitive topics like sex, and conversations with them are confidential. Health educators at schools or community health centers are great resources too.”
Tinder Causes Spike In STDs
About Will Phoenix
W. Scott Phoenix, B.A., B.S. was born in Hawaii, raised in Pennsylvania and resides in California. He has been a published writer since 1978. His work has appeared (under various names) in numerous places in print and online including Examiner.com. He is a single parent of three children and has also worked as an actor, singer and teacher. He has been employed by such publications as the Daily Collegian and the Los Angeles Times.
Follow us on Google+

