Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Menendez: 'I'm not backing off' on congressional review of Iran nuclear deal
Robert Menendez, Bob Corker
U.S. Sen. Robert Menendez, right, talks with Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.). The two men are the lead sponsors of legislation giving Congress 60 days to review any nuclear deal with Iran.(AP Photo | Susan Walsh, File)
"I'm not backing off," Menendez (D-N.J.) said on "Fox News Sunday."
"We have gone from the national imperative, we have had globally, to stopping nuclear proliferation to trying to contain or administer it. That is a fundamental change in our global policy."
Menendez, who stepped aside as the ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee after being indicted April 1 on corruption charges, has been the leading Democratic critic of Obama's Iran policy. The U.S. and its allies have agreed on a framework to restrict Iran's nuclear program, with an aim toward completing the deal by  June 30.
"After 2 1/2 years of negotiation the Congress should have 60 days to be able to review probably the most significant nuclear nonproliferation agreement of our times," Menendez said. "I believe such a process no way undermines any potential negotiations from here to June."
The Obama administration has agreed that Congress should be able to weigh in, but has opposed the legislation co-sponsored by Menendez and Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) that would prevent the administration from taking any action to roll back economic sanctions until Congress' 60-day review.
"We do not believe that Congress should be in a position where they are going to vote on legislation prior to June that could interfere with the talks," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said April 6.
Sen. Bob Menendez (D-NJ) says, "...the President has a misguided calculation, that if you open your hands to dictators, they will unclench their fists." Do you think President Obama is making the right moves on Cuba? For the full interview, tune into the Fox News Channel at 2pm & 6pm EST.
Posted by Fox News Sunday on Sunday, April 12, 2015
Menendez's national television appearance Sunday was his first since the indictment, which charged him with intervening with federal agencies on behalf of a friend and campaign donor, Dr. Salomon Melgen, in exchange for gifts, trips and political contributions.
While insisting that "when all of the facts are known, I know that I will be vindicated and we will win," Menendez said he did not believe the indictment was related to his opposition to U.S. foreign policy toward countries such as Cuba.
"I cannot imagine that an administration, this or any other, would go to such lengths and undermine our constitutional democracy," he said.
The son of Cuban immigrants, Menendez has opposed Obama's efforts to restore diplomatic relations with the communist country and take Cuba off the list of state sponsors of terrorism. Among the reasons: Cuba continues to harbor Joanne Chesimard , convicted of murdering a New Jersey state trooper who escaped from prison and was the first woman named to the FBI's list of most wanted terrorists.
 
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for your subscription!
To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Political Viewpoints
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

