Overcast
Reported on:
Written by Molly Solana on 27 May 2015
Google honours Sally Ride, the first American woman to travel to space on her 64th birthday by dedicating the today’s Google doodle to this chivalrous astronaut.
Sally Ride, who was born in Los Angeles, died of pancreatic cancer on July 23, 2012. Ride is credited as being the first American woman in space, the youngest person ever in space at the age of 32 and also to be the first known LGBT person in space.
Tam O'Shaughnessy, Ride's life partner stated in a web post, “With whimsy, it expresses Sally’s sense of fun and adventure, and her ability to inspire young people”.
To pay homage to Ride, Google unveiled a series of five different ‘Behind the Doodle’ animations that portray the inspiring life journey of Ride which will show up each time a person visits Google’s home page.
The American pioneer is being celebrated by Google which has also devoted a two-and-a-half-minute animated video narrated by Artist Olivia Huynh listing the important milestones in Ride’s life. Ride’s journey from being a junior tennis player to a doctoral student at Stanford and then heading on to become the American space star has been vividly described.
Ride is said to be one among 8,000 who responded to the ad to become an astronaut. There on from 1978 to about 1988, Ride stayed at NASA, twice undertaking flights aboard the space shuttle Challenger. Her first mission was accomplished in 1983.
Ride joined the University of California, San Diego faculty as a physics professor in 1989 and became a director of the University of California’s California Space Institute. In 2001, she founded the educational company called ‘Sally Ride Science’.
Ride dedicated her life to inspire next generation, especially girls, to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering and math.
Ride is a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honour and efforts are being made to include Ride’s likeness in the US Capitol’s Statuary Hall.
You May Also Like
Swimming is the best way to beat the heat in summers. In hot days, people usually prefer to head...
San Antonio Online
Houston Voice
Austin Newsroom

