Enter your email to receive Civil Beat's free daily newsletter.
May 22, 2015
May 22, 2015
Ige Supports Construction of TMT, Asks UH to Better Manage Mauna Kea
The governor wants to create a Mauna Kea Cultural Council and make other changes to improve stewardship of the mountain.
May 26, 2015
Hawaii Gov. David Ige announced his support for building the Thirty Meter Telescope on Mauna Kea on Tuesday, saying the project has the right to proceed.
“I do not doubt that they did more than any previous telescope project to be a good neighbor,” he said during a press conference at the State Capitol.
Protests against the planned observatory on Mauna Kea, which is considered a sacred mountain by many Native Hawaiians, forced construction to come to a standstill last month after dozens of people were arrested blocking construction vehicles.
Gov. David Ige speaks at a press conference about the TMT on Mauna Kea.
Cory Lum/Civil Beat
The governor also announced a list of 10 requests for the University of Hawaii that are intended to improve the management of the mountain, such as creating a new Mauna Kea Cultural Council to advise the state. Ige acknowledged that in many ways the state has failed to do a good job as steward of the land.
Still, Kealoha Pisciotta, who has spent a better part of the last two decades fighting development on Mauna Kea, said she was disappointed by the governor’s support for the TMT.
“The state of Hawaii is defending astronomers from California’s right to build something here on the land that belongs to Native Hawaiians and the public,” she said. “He’s arresting our people, Hawaiian and non-Hawaiian alike, but he’s going to defend the California astronomers’ right to build something here.”
She called his list of requests for the university “hollow” and
About the Author
Civil Beat Staff
Hawaii's largest news outlet dedicated to Hawaii public affairs reporting.
We bring you investigative and watchdog journalism, in-depth enterprise reporting, analysis and commentary that gives readers a broad view on issues of importance to the community.
Subscribe for just $4.99/month
Copyright © 2010-2015 Peer News LLC. All rights reserved. Civil Beat © is a registered trademark of Peer News LLC.

