2:16 | 04/07/15
Coming up next:
Enhanced full screen
Explore related content
Transcript for Hillary Clinton Testifies to Congress on Benghazi Consulate Attack
Hillary Clinton her final appearance for the senate as secretary of state comes today when she introduces a man named replace or Senator John Kerry. And that comes just a day after her passionate and combative testimony about the terrorist attack and then you guys who killed a US ambassador had three other Americans. ABC's chief global affairs correspondent Martha Raddatz was there for all the action in Washington good morning Martha. Good morning George it was truly a riveting day on Capitol Hill we don't say that very often. With Secretary Clinton and some have never seen her before. She was at times combative. Charming disarming. And clearly ready for a fight it is our job to figure out what happened and do everything we can't. To prevent it from ever happening again senator. But when Clinton spoke of her four fallen colleagues the pain the memories were still raw. I stood next to President Obama as the Marines carried those flag draped caskets. Off the plane at enters I put my arms around the mothers and fathers. The sisters and Brothers the sons and daughters. And Clinton did not hesitate to shouldered the blame. As I've said many times I take responsibility. But that did little to quiet some Republicans who wanted to know. How this could of happen he let the consulate become a death trap. Had I've been present at the time I was relieved you of your post I think it's inexcusable. This secretary fought back. Aggressively defending comments made by UN ambassador Susan Rice at five days after the attack. Very simple phone call to these individuals on think would have ascertained. Immediately. That there was no protest. With all due respect the fact is we have four dead Americans what I'd had a right protest it was a because of guys out for a walk one night to decide they go kill some Americans. What difference at this point does it make a strong defense that did not satisfy Senator John McCain. Why do we care. Because if the classified information had been included it gives an entirely different version of events. Like McCain there were some Republicans who Hillary Clinton did not convinced but this was certainly a memorable way to close at her tenure George.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: 'Yeah Mon!' Jamaican Man Asks President Obama About Marijuana
Now Playing: White House Complex Minimally Impacted by Power Outage
Now Playing: Getting Democrats to Back Iran Deal: Sales Pitch Just Beginning
Now Playing: Cyber Attack at the White House
Now Playing: Obama on Climate Change and the Effects on Health
Now Playing: Obama Says He Was 'Shocked' Congress Didn't Act After Sandy Hook School Shooting
Now Playing: Who Is President Obama's Favorite Republican?
Now Playing: Rand Paul Enters Presidential Race, Offers His Vision for America
Now Playing: Rand Paul Says He Will Do Anything to Defend America From ‘Haters of Mankind’
Now Playing: Power Outage Hits Washington, DC
Now Playing: Rand Paul's Full Speech Announcing 2016 Presidential Bid
Now Playing: Lights Out in the State Department
Now Playing: From the Archives: Hillary Clinton Delivers Women's Rights Speech in Beijing
Now Playing: From the Archives: President Bill Clinton Testifies in Monica Lewinsky Case
Now Playing: Hillary Clinton Testifies to Congress on Benghazi Consulate Attack
Now Playing: From the Archives: First Lady Hillary Clinton Takes on Healthcare Reform
Now Playing: Technical Dimension of Iran Nuclear Deal Explained
Now Playing: That Adorable Moment When President Obama Got Interrupted by Bees
Now Playing: Rand Paul In A Minute: Everything You Need to Know
Now Playing: {{itm.title}}

