Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
FRENCH OPEN LOOKAHEAD: Worth watching security for Federer Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HuW50N
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
FRENCH OPEN LOOKAHEAD: Worth watching security for Federer
AP 5:51 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
(Photo: The Associated Press)
PARIS (AP) — Here's guessing French Open security guards will not allow a selfie-seeker — or anyone else, for that matter — to get anywhere near Roger Federer following his second-round match Wednesday.
Not after what transpired at the end of his victory in the first round: A teenager managed to make it out of the stands and stroll across the court to get to Federer, using a cellphone to try to snap photos.
It will be interesting to see whether there are any extra measures implemented at Court Suzanne Lenglen for Federer's match again Marcel Granollers, given the 17-time Grand Slam champion's criticism of security at Court Philippe Chatrier on Sunday.
"We need to make sure that it's safe out there and people don't just wander on the court like a free pass," Federer said.
Tournament director Gilbert Ysern's stance that day was there was no need to make any changes to protect players, but he did say: "For sure, we will reinforce the message again that clearly nobody is allowed to get on court in any case, at any time, for any reason."
The contest itself between the second-seeded Federer and the 57th-ranked Granollers hardly seems all that intriguing: Not only has Granollers never been past the fourth round in 30 previous major tournaments, but he's also 0-3 against Federer.
Here's a look at what else is happening at the French Open on Wednesday:
MONFILS TAKES THE STAGE
Tennis' foremost showman, 13th-seeded Gael Monfils of France, plays on his country's biggest stage, Court Philippe Chatrier, against Diego Schwartzman of Argentina. Last year, Monfils wowed the crowd at Roland Garros the day before the tournament started by breakdancing on center court during an exhibition match. His running, leaping, diving shots are the stuff of legend around these parts — and there's plenty to see on YouTube.
CZECHS, MATES
Fourth-seeded Tomas Berdych, the Wimbledon runner-up in 2010, takes on his Davis Cup teammate for the Czech Republic, Radek Stepanek, who at 36 is the oldest man in the draw. They helped their country win the Davis Cup in 2012 and 2013.
SHARAPOVA'S COLD
After her first-round match, Maria Sharapova dispensed with the customary post-match, on-court interview and headed straight to the locker room, drawing whistles and boos from spectators. She explained that she didn't have much of a voice because of a cold that had her coughing throughout her win that day. On Wednesday, the defending champion faces another Russian, Vitalia Diatchenko, who is ranked 91st, 89 places below Sharapova.
DOUBLE DIPPING
___
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
TOP VIDEOS
01:09
01:25
00:52

