If Rubio Runs for President, Who Will He Leave Behind?   
April 12, 2015 at 07:49
On Monday, Florida Senator Marco Rubio is expected to announce  that he will run for president in 2016. While the young Republican will probably become the frontrunner among the few GOP members that have so far announced their candidacy, another fight will be launched behind him, between those who desire to fill his seat in the US Senate.
Rubio cannot run for Senate re-election if he decides to go for the White House, so a debate over his potential successor has already been launched.
Historically, Republicans tend to do better than Democrats in Florida, where the GOP gave the state’s last three governors. But 2016 is a presidential election year, and statistics also show that in such context the Democrats recorded their best results. It was the case with Barack Obama, whose popularity led his party to victory in 2008 and 2012. “Florida is a different state in a presidential and a non-presidential year,” Democratic analyst David Beattie argued.
But Republican victories in 1998, 2002, 2006, 2010 and 2014 suggest statistics alone will not be a strong indicator for the outcome of next year’s Senate race in Florida, at least not without reviewing the candidates first. As each party has its favorite, a promising a clash between Republican Jeff Atwater and Democratic congressman Patrick Murphy emerges.
Jeff Atwater, 57, is currently Florida’s chief financial officer and has office experience on his side. He hasn’t made an official announcement yet about running for Senate, and cannot do so until Rubio announces his presidential candidacy first. But specialists believe he is holding a marginal advantage over other Republican Senate prospects, such as congressman Ron DeSantis or deputy governor Carlos Lopez-Cantera.
Patrick Murphy, his potential democratic adversary, is a member in the US House of Representatives and although only turned 32 he earned a reputation of being able to mount an upset in political campaigns. His latest achievement is defeating Republican Allen West to earn his seat in the House in 2012, despite having a handicap in funds raised and notoriety.
Unlike his opponent, Murphy already announced he will be running for Senate. The prospect of facing a more famous Republican does not scare him. “In our last election we were humbled to have a strong victory in a district that Mitt Romney ended up winning by a few percentage points,” the Democrat shared his thoughts.
Atwater clearly has the greatest experience between the two, after holding the state Senate presidency before winning his first term as CFO in 2010. He might struggle however overcoming Governor’s Rick Scott sharp decline in popularity over the past few months. Scott’s poor ratings might fuel Murphy’s aspirations. The Democrat is seen by many as a candidate who can bridge the gap among the political spectrum, and so he could attract many disgruntled Republicans.
 
 
 
 
 

