Select Portfolio and Asset Combination for Display on Market Band
Select Portfolio
ET NOW RADIO
FREE ET MARKETS APP
BREAKING NEWS
Bernanke sees no risk of hard landing in China, bullish on US economy
By Reuters | 27 May, 2015, 10.48AM IST
READ MORE ON » US RATES | South Korea | Former Fed Chairman | china slowdown | Ben Bernanke
Bernanke said the expected US rate hike would be 'anticlimactic' when it happens and there would only be minor negative impact on South Korea.
SEOUL: Former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said that China's economic slowdown should not worry markets as there was no risk of a hard landing, and emphasised that a move to raise US rates should be viewed as a positive sign for the world's largest economy.
Bernanke, who participated in an open interview at a private-sector forum in Seoul on Wednesday, said the expected US rate hike would be 'anticlimactic' when it happens and that there would only be minor negative impact on South Korea .
"There may be some volatility. Countries like Korea are very well placed because it has very good policy, good institutions. It's not weak or underdeveloped and doesn't know how to handle capital flows."
A Fed rate hike, expected by markets before the end of this year, would be something to cheer about, said Bernanke, who now works at the Brookings Institution and advises bond giant Pimco and hedge fund Citadel. "I don't know when (the rate hike will come), but when that begins, that's good news, not bad news because it means the US economy is strong enough."
Bernanke also said the economic slowdown in China is necessary as it needs to change its growth model to be more sustainable in the long term.
"China was growing 10 percent a year. And it was doing that through heavy capital investment, steel plants and so on. Very export oriented," he said.
"As the country gets more rich and sophisticated that kind of growth is no longer successful."
He added he was "optimistic" China's economy would not experience a hard landing.
Annual economic growth in the world's second-biggest economy slowed to a six-year low of 7 percent in the first quarter, prompting a range of stimulus measures from Beijing.
Bernanke said Japan was making progress on its "three-arrow" policy to shore up growth, adding that Tokyo's aggressive monetary policy was "necessary."
"I'm encouraged by what I'm seeing in Japan. But they have slow population growth and fundamental problems that will be hard for them to overcome. They will not grow at the pace they did in the 70s but it will be better than what they've seen in the past 20 years," he said.
Commenting on the China-backed Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), Bernanke said it would create an opportunity for more useful projects around the world.
"First of all we care that international institutions do a good job. We have the World Bank and now the AIIB," he said, adding that "the more the better."
Stay on top of business news with The Economic Times App. Download it Now!
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Browse Companies
Browse Mutual Funds
BACK TO TOP
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Others


CNA
2015-05-27
Morris Chang talks to reporters in Taipei, May 26 (Photo/CNA)
Morris Chang, chairman of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co, the world's largest contract chip maker, said Tuesday that he and former US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke share the view that the American Dream still exists, but is more difficult to attain than in the past.
Chang, who attended a forum sponsored by local magazine Business Weekly in Taipei, said he asked Bernanke if the American Dream still exists.
The American dream means that if one works hard, he or she can climb the ladder of success, Chang said.
Chang added that when he arrived in the United States, his parents were very ppor, but he managed to climb to be among the top 10% of society by the age of 40.
He realized his own dream, but nowadays a lot of American immigrants cannot realize their dreams, he said.
Bernanke said he shares Chang's feelings, adding that although his parents were also immigrants, he realized his own dream.
Chang said that Taiwan also has its own dream, but this is also more difficult to attain than it was two or three decades ago.
Whether it is an American or Taiwanese dream, the destination is to become middle-class, not super-wealthy, Chang went on.
At the forum, Bernanke was also questioned about America's quantitative easing (QE) policy. He himself engineered all three rounds of the US quantitative easing following the 2007-08 financial crisis.
He said that adopting a monetary policy of driving down the currency rate boosted exports of the manufacturing sector, but also carried risks.
Kuan Chung-ming, a former chairman of the National Development Council, questioned Bernanke's QE policy, noting that some have complained that it has had a big impact on Taiwan and other emerging countries.
Bernanke said that Europe and Japan have adopted floating exchange rates and have not complained about the US policy, unlike economies that have adopted fixed exchange rates.
Lee Jih-chu, chairperson of Taiwan Financial Holdings and the Bank of Taiwan, said the QE policy has helped the United States on the road to recovery.
But many countries have now adopted QE policies and if they cannot handle it well, too much liquidity will lead to another crisis.
Asked if the internationalization of the Chinese yuan or renminbi will threaten the dominant status of the US dollar, Bernanke said only that the United States is not concerned about this.
Bernanke, who served as governor of the US central bank from 2006-2014, is the first former Fed chairman to visit Taiwan.
Article Tools

