Select Portfolio and Asset Combination for Display on Market Band
Select Portfolio
ET NOW RADIO
FREE ET MARKETS APP
BREAKING NEWS
Bernanke sees no risk of hard landing in China, bullish on US economy
By Reuters | 27 May, 2015, 10.48AM IST
READ MORE ON » US RATES | South Korea | Former Fed Chairman | china slowdown | Ben Bernanke
Bernanke said the expected US rate hike would be 'anticlimactic' when it happens and there would only be minor negative impact on South Korea.
SEOUL: Former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said that China's economic slowdown should not worry markets as there was no risk of a hard landing, and emphasised that a move to raise US rates should be viewed as a positive sign for the world's largest economy.
Bernanke, who participated in an open interview at a private-sector forum in Seoul on Wednesday, said the expected US rate hike would be 'anticlimactic' when it happens and that there would only be minor negative impact on South Korea .
"There may be some volatility. Countries like Korea are very well placed because it has very good policy, good institutions. It's not weak or underdeveloped and doesn't know how to handle capital flows."
A Fed rate hike, expected by markets before the end of this year, would be something to cheer about, said Bernanke, who now works at the Brookings Institution and advises bond giant Pimco and hedge fund Citadel. "I don't know when (the rate hike will come), but when that begins, that's good news, not bad news because it means the US economy is strong enough."
Bernanke also said the economic slowdown in China is necessary as it needs to change its growth model to be more sustainable in the long term.
"China was growing 10 percent a year. And it was doing that through heavy capital investment, steel plants and so on. Very export oriented," he said.
"As the country gets more rich and sophisticated that kind of growth is no longer successful."
He added he was "optimistic" China's economy would not experience a hard landing.
Annual economic growth in the world's second-biggest economy slowed to a six-year low of 7 percent in the first quarter, prompting a range of stimulus measures from Beijing.
Bernanke said Japan was making progress on its "three-arrow" policy to shore up growth, adding that Tokyo's aggressive monetary policy was "necessary."
"I'm encouraged by what I'm seeing in Japan. But they have slow population growth and fundamental problems that will be hard for them to overcome. They will not grow at the pace they did in the 70s but it will be better than what they've seen in the past 20 years," he said.
Commenting on the China-backed Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), Bernanke said it would create an opportunity for more useful projects around the world.
"First of all we care that international institutions do a good job. We have the World Bank and now the AIIB," he said, adding that "the more the better."
Stay on top of business news with The Economic Times App. Download it Now!
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Browse Companies
Browse Mutual Funds
BACK TO TOP
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Others


By Korbin Lan
Published: May 27,2015
TAIPEI, Taiwan － Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) Chairman Morris Chang yesterday at the “World Economic Forum” hosted by Businessweekly discussed the income gap problem. Morris Chang asked Ben Bernanke, ex-chairman of the Federal Reserve, “Does the American dream still exist?”
More on This
TAIPEI, Taiwan — The iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus are going to be released in the second half of the season, a massive...
Morris Chang said, ”I arrived in America at the age 18, and at the time, I was not very affluent. However, my father and I had the American dream. By the time I was 40, I had accumulated enough wealth to live at the same standard as the top 10% of the American population.” He asked Bernanke if the new immigrants to America, who have low incomes and live in slums, can still embrace this kind of American dream?
Bernanke replied that the problem of unequal distribution of wealth definitely exists. In fact, in America most people believe that they are part of the middle class and want to continue to climb up into the upper classes. However, he admitted, “for the bottom 20% of low-income people, the probability of entering the top 20% is already very low. It is even lower than in Europe.”
However, Bernanke also believes that in spite of the worsening income distribution in one country, when looking at the global average, the income distribution is more equal than it was in the past.
Morris Change stated that he fears that Taiwan’s income gap will become like America’s situation in 20 years. Bernanke stated that with continual technological improvement, more advanced education is needed. If the quality of the people does not rise, he is afraid that they will fall into competing with low-income countries with low levels of education.
However, Bernanke is not pessimistic about the poverty gap. He explained that today’s medical care is drastically better than it was 20 years ago, and people can now use Internet resources, such as Facebook, free of charge. Hence, people’s lifestyles are better than they were 20 years ago.
“Inequality is not necessarily a bad thing. The most important thing is finding ways to seize opportunities,” he explained. “The American dream is not a question of everybody being rich. It is a question of whether or not middle class people can use their abilities and make use of opportunities to work their way into the upper classes.”
(TR/Phil Sweeney)
37 viewed
Top Stories
Address: No. 29, Chung Shan North Road, 11th Floor
Phone:+886 2 2585-5526

