Featured
Latest Headlines
Featured
Featured
Latest Headlines
Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call (803) 771-8452 or email stateobits@thestate.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By JAMIE SELF
Former Texas governor Rick Perry talked about his faith and God’s leading him into politics during the Columbia International University’s chapel service Tuesday.
Drawing on a theme of “second chances,” Perry told the crowd of mostly students at the evangelical school that he has many times been turned in a different direction by what he sees as God guiding him.
Perry’s visit to the school was unusual, a spokesman said, adding that no GOP presidential candidates in 2012 visited that he could recall. Perry also met with pastors in Charleston Monday, courting the evangelical vote, a key constituency in GOP primaries.
Perry said Monday that at one point in his life, he was “called to the ministry,” but was trying to figure out how best to fill that role.
Perry said he wanted to become a pilot for Wycliffe Bible Translators, a South American ministry, but he lacked the airplane mechanic certification he needed.
Perry said God put that obstacle in front of him, which led him into politics.
"He meant for me to have a ministry. I just never knew it was going to be as big as it is."
On Monday in Charleston, Perry focused on foreign policy, telling Citadel cadets that he would throw out a nuclear deal with Iran if he is elected president.
But to the students at Columbia International, Perry did not delve deeply into the issues that will consume his campaign if he decides to run for the Republican Party’s presidential nomination again. He has said he would decide by June.
He did, however, touch on foreign policy, telling students that churches are giving people second chances in foreign countries where terrorism is a threat.
Perry also said under his leadership, Texas gave second chances to nonviolent drug-related offenders, so they would not go to “prison for 20-plus years where they learned how to be real criminals.”
Perry said in the last four years, the state has shut down three prisons.
Perry meets with S.C. electric cooperative leaders later Tuesday, his last day in the state.
Reach Self at (803) 771-8658
Related
Related
Editor's Choice Videos
Join the Discussion
The State is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

