Haberkip INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — Hundreds of men and women calling for Indiana to add protections for gays and lesbians to the state's civil-rights laws marched via downtown Indianapolis Saturday, attracting the focus basketball fans attending the NCAA Final Four,...
AP News - Gay rights rally goes to Indianapolis NCAA Final Four web site
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — Hundreds of men and women calling for Indiana to add protections for gays and lesbians to the state's civil-rights laws marched via downtown Indianapolis Saturday, attracting the focus basketball fans attending the NCAA Final Four,...
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — Hundreds of men and women calling for Indiana to add protections for gays and lesbians to the state's civil-rights laws marched via downtown Indianapolis Saturday, attracting the focus basketball fans attending the NCAA Final Four, some of whom offered the protesters cheers of help.
The march came two days following Indiana lawmakers responded to an uproar over a new religious objections law and tweaked the law to address issues that it would allow discrimination against gays and lesbians.
March organizer Dominic Dorsey II told the crowd as it gathered on the steps of the city's Monument Circle that the Legislature's move was only a beginning. He said lawmakers now require to add legal protections to state law to prohibit workplace discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals.
"This new language that they've added is like stabbing somebody in the back and then pulling it out 3 inches and saying, 'You're all suitable, suitable? We're very good now, suitable?" he told crowd, which shouted back "no!"
Dorsey then led the gathering in chanting "Hoosiers never discriminate! — No more Band-Aids masking hate!" as they began a march that carried them numerous blocks past the city's enterprise district, bars and restaurants to the Lucas Oil Stadium, home of this year's men's Final 4.
Dozens of the marchers carried rainbow flags, American flags and Indiana state flags as well as signs reading "No hate in our state," ''Equal rights for all" and other messages. Some pushed child strollers with their youngsters, others had dogs on leashes and several wore blue T-shirts reading "Indy Welcomes All."
Police officers who blocked intersections so the protesters could march along downtown streets with out incident estimated that involving 500 and 600 people took part in the march. There had been no arrests and the protest was "quite peaceful," said Indianapolis police spokesman Lt. Richard Riddle.
As the crowd approached Lucas Oil Stadium chanting, college basketball fans watched the passing spectacle under cool, sunny skies. Their response to the march was commonly positive, with some appearing amused, other individuals cheering the crowd on and lots of applying their smartphone to record the moment.
There were no signs through the march of supporters of Indiana's religious objections law.
When the marchers began chanting "No hate in our state!" Wisconsin Badgers fan Tammy Holtan Arnol clapped and cheered and then shouted back at the passing procession "No hate in your state!"
The 46-year-old from Madison, Wisconsin, who was in town for Saturday's semifinal among Wisconsin and Kentucky with her husband and their 7-year-old son, mentioned she believes Indiana's law was "hateful."
She mentioned the adjustments Indiana lawmakers created to the law in response to sharp criticism from around the nation and concerns raised by significant corporations was just an work to obscure the law's actual intentions.
"It was a shallow move to make it seem like it wasn't to discriminate, but it genuinely was," she said.
Her 57-year-old husband, Tom Arnol, noted that Wisconsin, like Indiana's doesn't have protections for the LGBT neighborhood, even although he said a lot of Wisconsin residents want such protections in location.
Outdoors the Lucas Oil Stadium, openly gay U.S. Army Major Steve Snyder-Hill told the crowd that he's not from Indiana, but from Ohio. He stated he'd thought about that when the crowd was chanting "No hate in our state."
"I thought, 'Well this isn't my state, but then I remembered that I am in the Army fighting for everybody's freedom, for everybody's rights," he mentioned to cheers. "So it isn't just our state, it's all our states that we're fighting for with each other."
Jason Collins, the 1st openly gay NBA player, said on Saturday that the NCAA really should stay clear of placing future Final 4 championships in states that do not guard the rights of gays and lesbians.

