Connecting decision                             makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and                             accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the                             world.
Apr 8, 2015 9:26 AM EDT
The immigration moves have become a flashpoint in Washington, with Republican lawmakers maintaining that Obama’s actions were unconstitutional.
A federal judge in Texas rejected the U.S. Department of Justice’s request to lift a temporary block on the Obama administration’s executive action shielding as many as 5 million immigrants from deportation.
U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen said the government had not “shown any credible reason” why President Barack Obama’s order needed immediate implementation.
“It is obvious that there is no pressing, emergent need for this program,” Hanen wrote in an order released late Tuesday. “If there had been such a need,” the Department of Homeland Security “could have implemented the program at any time in the last five or ten years.”
“It is obvious that there is no pressing, emergent need for this program.”
U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen
The Justice Department has appealed Hansen’s decision to block the action to the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans. That court is expected to hear arguments on lifting the injunction April 17.
Hanen granted the preliminary injunction on Feb. 16, after 26 states filed a lawsuit arguing that the president’s executive action was unconstitutional.
That’s halted federal implementation of two key pillars of the president’s immigration plan: an expansion of the program that offered relief to immigrants brought illegally to the U.S. as children, and a new opportunity for the parents of U.S. citizens and permanent residents to remain in the country.
DHS Funding
The immigration moves have become a flashpoint in Washington, with Republican lawmakers maintaining that Obama’s actions were unconstitutional. In February, House Republicans threatened to withhold funds for the Department of Homeland Security over the program, and passed it just before funding was set to expire.
Obama has said he prefers for Congress to pass comprehensive immigration overhaul legislation, yet was forced to act after lawmakers repeatedly failed to strike a deal.
A White House spokesman didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on the latest court ruling. Press secretary Josh Earnest said earlier Tuesday that administration officials “continue to have very strong confidence in the legal strength” of its arguments.
“We continue to be working through the legal system to appeal the ruling of the district court judge that prevented the implementation of some aspects of the President’s immigration executive actions,” Earnest said. “And that’s a legal process that’s ongoing.”
Please upgrade your Browser
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:

