Lee's Sandwiches Recalls At Least 200,000 Pounds Of Meat Products
Please enter the valid email address.
(Photo : Sean Gallup / Getty Images News)
A Garden Grove firm is recalling around 213,000 pounds of meat products that were not properly inspected by the United States Department of Agriculture. According to the USDA, the beef, chicken and pork products were packaged without their mark of inspection and federal approval.
Like Us on Facebook
In fact, they found out that the said company used another mark of inspection from another company. Furthermore, the said products were produced during the period from May 18, 2014 to May 18, 2015, ABC reports.
Lee's Sandwiches is the supplier of meat products in Arizona, California, Oklahoma, Oregon and Texas. However, there were no reports of hospitalizations and illness associated with eating the meat during the time they were produced.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) announced that they are conducting a probe on the alleged unauthorized use of USDA mark of inspection by the company. They used the mark of inspection of another company identified as Establishment number 18995, LA Times reports.
This was discovered by FSIS personnel during a surveillance review, said Congressional and Public Affairs Officer of the USDA, Gabrielle N. Johnston, in a press release . The personnel observed the products which were not inspected by the government agency.
Since there were still no complaints or reports of adverse reactions from the consumption of the products, they are recommending to those consumers who experienced unwanted effects of the products to immediately report it to their health care providers and the USDA.
In 2013, around 740 pounds of Lee's Sandwiches sausages were also recalled after USDA officers found these sausages contain toxins that may lead to food poisoning.
Consumers with questions about the recall can contact Lee Sandwiches' Chief Operating Officer Tom Quach at (714) 333-8688.
MORE RELATED THIS ARTICLE
Please enter the valid email address.
Latest News headlines
MORE YOUTH HEALTH ARTICLES
Please enter the valid email address.
© 2015 Youth Health Magazine All Rights Reserved.
Sign up to get the latest news delivered to your inbox every week!
Please enter the valid email address.

