April 11, 2015 at midnight
Updated April 11, 2015 at 11:03 p.m.
WASHINGTON (AP) - As the April 15 tax deadline nears, people who got help paying for health insurance under President Barack Obama's law are seeing the direct effect on their refunds - hundreds of dollars, for better or worse.
The law offers tax credits so people without access to job-based health insurance can buy private coverage. Because these subsidies are tied to income, consumers must accurately estimate what they will make for the coming year.
Some experts caution  such complications could discourage uninsured people from getting covered.
Rob Tuck of Dublin, Cali., said he had anticipated a refund of about $400 on his 2014 taxes. But that almost has been wiped out because he had to repay some of the subsidy. He changed jobs during the year, and his income went up a little.
Tuck, who works for a San Francisco area tech-support company, said he enrolled to avoid tax penalties for being uninsured, but feels penalized anyway now.
"I was expecting to get dinged a little bit, but I was actually kind of surprised when it came down that much," he said.
Kelsey Park started out 2014 in Dallas, earning good commissions by selling wedding gowns. She left for graduate school at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, and signed up for coverage through the law. She ended up overestimating her income because she didn't get another job as anticipated.
Park's tax refund came to $2,500, partly because she had too much income tax withheld and partly because she received a smaller health care subsidy than she was entitled to.
"It was hard to estimate what I would be earning because I was transitioning in life," said Park, who's studying for a master's degree in marketing. "I tend to overestimate because I don't want to have to pay back," she said.
The average refund is large enough to offset any repayment in most cases, according to the Treasury Department. The White House says the Affordable Care Act is working even better than anticipated.
But this is the first year  the complicated connections between the law and the tax system are playing out for consumers.
Initial reports suggest a fairly even split between tax-return winners and losers.
RELATED
5 TIPS FOR TAXFILERS ABOUT HEALTH COVERAGE:
This year's tax season is the first time tax filers will be asked to provide basic information regarding their health coverage on their tax returns. Here's what taxpayers need to know:
1. Most people just need to check a box: Most tax filers - about 75 percent - will just need to check a box when they file their taxes to indicate that that everyone in their household had coverage for all of 2014. This applies to people who had health coverage through their employer, Medicare, Medicaid, among other sources.
2. If you had Marketplace coverage, you should have your Form 1095-A:  People with Marketplace coverage should have received an important statement in the mail from the Marketplace called a Form 1095-A.  If you're still waiting for your 1095-A Form to arrive, check your marketplace account  or call the Marketplace Call Center at 1-800-318-2596.
3. If you didn't have health coverage, use the exemption tool: While those who can afford health coverage but chose not to enroll may have to pay a fee, people who couldn't afford coverage or met other conditions can receive an exemption.
4. If you have to pay the fee, consider signing up for coverage through the Special Enrollment Period: Tax filers who have to pay the fee and who were unaware or did not understand the requirement to enroll in coverage can take advantage of an opportunity to purchase health insurance coverage through a special enrollment period. If tax filers do not purchase coverage for the remainder of 2015 during this special enrollment period (through April 30), they will risk having to pay the fee again next year for the entire year when they file their 2015 income taxes.
5. Help is available: Tax filers with questions about exemptions, the fee, the Special Enrollment Period or Marketplace tax statements should contact the Marketplace Call Center at 1-800-318-2596 or visit healthcare.gov/taxes.
Source: Department of Health and Human Services
311 E. Constitution St. Victoria, Texas 77901 - Phone: 361-575-1451

