X
Queen to unveil EU referendum plans as UK parliament opens
David Cameron says he would prefer to stay inside a reformed EU but isn’t ‘ruling anything out’ if it fails to change
Queen Elizabeth will set out the British government’s plans for a European Union membership referendum on Wednesday as prime minister David Cameron faces pressure to explain when it will be held and what changes to the EU he wants before then. Photograph: Jason Alden/Bloomberg
First published: Wed, May 27, 2015, 07:48
Queen Elizabeth will set out the British government’s plans for a European Union membership referendum on Wednesday as prime minister David Cameron faces pressure to explain when it will be held and what changes to the EU he wants before then.
Mr Cameron, who says he would prefer to stay inside a reformed EU but isn’t “ruling anything out” if it fails to change, was re-elected on May 7th on a pledge to reshape ties with the bloc before allowing Britons to vote on whether to stay or leave.
The queen (89) will detail the plans in a speech written for her by Cameron’s government as she opens parliament with an annual display of pomp.
Among other measures expected to feature was a reform of human rights laws designed to weaken the influence of the European Court of Human Rights, but several newspapers reported hours before the speech that the bill had now been delayed.
The Conservatives are divided over the plan, and the newspapers said the prime minister had backed away from an early fight within his own camp.
On the EU, the queen will say the new government plans to pass a law in its first year that would allow the referendum to occur by the end of 2017.
In a gesture meant to underscore Mr Cameron’s seriousness, the law will be introduced into parliament just a day later, on Thursday, as he embarks on a European tour to try to charm sometimes reluctant counterparts into backing EU reform. It will include talks with French president Francois Hollande in Paris and German chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin.
Mr Cameron has said he would be ready to hold the referendum before 2017 if he completes the renegotiation early, something some pro-EU campaigners advocate. But he is under pressure from some Eurosceptic lawmakers who want him to ask for more and to take his time.
“I think we need a proper grown-up debate - it’s the most important constitutional issue of my lifetime. It’s something that we should properly take our time over,” Liam Fox, a senior Conservative and a former defence secretary, told BBC radio.
Some EU politicians have complained they don’t know enough, beyond what they say are broad and nebulous goals, about what it is Cameron wants to change. He says he wants to decouple Britain from the EU’s aim of “ever closer union” and to be able to restrict EU migrants’ access to Britain’s welfare system.
Mr Cameron is adamant that such changes would require re-opening the EU’s founding treaties, something countries such as France are opposed to.
Other laws the queen will outline on Wednesday include a crackdown on illegal immigration, more powers for Scotland , and a bill preventing any rise in key taxes before 2020.
Reuters
Latest World
Isabel Gorst
Which Daily Digest would you like?
Morning
Lunchtime
Both


Franco-German reform moves rattle Cameron
  
No moving flats. David Cameron, in front of #10. [brett jordan/flickr]
Franco-German attempts to secure changes within the Eurozone without treaty changes threaten to undermine UK Prime Minister David Cameron’s EU reform efforts.
French daily Le Monde reported yesterday (26 May) that Franco-German proposals to be put before next month’s EU summit will call for eurozone reforms in four areas “developed in the framework of the current treaties in the years ahead”.
The initiative would close the door on treaty renegotiation, reflecting resistance to unpicking the treaties amongst EU officials and diplomats in Brussels, according to the reports.
On Sunday (24 May) Commission President Jean Claude Juncker met Cameron at his official country residence, Chequers. Cameron outlined his negotiation plans and said that the “British people are not happy with the status quo” in Europe.
Juncker is preparing plans for eurozone fiscal integration in advance of the meeting of heads of state and government at a June summit (25-26) and will likely take account of any Franco-German blueprints.
According to Le Monde, the Franco-German policy proposal, “shows that French and German leaders do not have much in common with David Cameron”.
This week, the British premier is meeting his counterparts in Germany, France, Denmark, the Netherlands and Poland, with Cameron's’s advisers insisting that the UK wants treaty change, even if its in-out referendum is held before any new treaty has been ratified.
The UK will suffer a further blow from Franco-German policymaking today under tax harmonisation plans set to be mulled in Brussels.
The EU executive will hold an orientation debate on corporate taxation today (27 May) as part of its agenda to tackle tax avoidance, with a view to submitting concrete proposals on corporate taxation before heads of state and government at a summit in June (25-26).
The UK opposes proposals designed to yield power over setting tax rates to Brussels.
The discussion will include plans to create a basic rate of corporation tax across Europe, Handelsblatt, the German business newspaper reported on Tuesday.
“Germany and France and demanding a minimum threshold value; we are reacting to that,” one Commission source told the newspaper.
Britain has a low corporation tax rate – at 20% – compared with France and Germany, whose rates range between 30-37%, and fiercely opposes any moves to coordinate tax rates on a pan-European level.
The developments come at an awkward time for Cameron, who last week took the opportunity of the Eastern Partnership summit in Riga (22 May) to test his ideas with fellow EU leaders.
Asked by a journalist what he thought of the British leader's plans at the summit, Austrian Prime Minister Werner Faymann said that he had heard nothing of them.
“Which is just as well,” Faymann said, “Because I am not in favour of treaty changes at the moment.”
Downing Street did not comment on the Le Monde report, reiterating a statement made by Cameron in Riga.
“There will be ups and downs – you’ll hear one day this is possible, the next day something else is impossible,” he said.
00:49
02:31
00:37
05:23

