Skip This >>
NEW CALL OF DUTY: ADVANCED WARFARE DOWNLOADABLE CONTENT PACK SUPREMACY READIES FOR 2nd JUNE TAKE OVER
Third DLC Pack for Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare Delivers Four New Multiplayer Maps Taking Players Across the Globe
Bruce Campbell Joins Next Chapter of the Fan-Favourite Exo Zombies Saga, with All-Star Hollywood Cast of John Malkovich, Bill Paxton, Rose McGowan and Jon Bernthal
London, UK – 26 th May, 2015 – Prepare for a globetrotting Call of Duty® DLC experience like no other, against the backdrops of several of the greatest monuments around the world in Call of Duty®: Advanced Warfare Supremacy .  On 2 nd June, the third DLC pack for Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare from Activision Publishing, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Activision Blizzard (Nasdaq: ATVI ) and Sledgehammer Games, will be available first on the Xbox Live online entertainment network for Xbox One and Xbox 360 games and entertainment system from Microsoft, with other platforms to follow. 
From the famed Houses of Parliament in London, to the snowy confines of the Kremlin in Moscow, players will experience a diverse landscape of multiplayer mayhem, including the return of one of the most iconic multiplayer maps in Call of Duty history, “Highrise,” which first debuted in 2009’s Call of Duty ®: Modern Warfare ® 2, now transported to the year 2054.
“Set against iconic landmarks, Supremacy takes players across the world in some of our most exciting maps to date. New and exciting vertical routes give players unique ways to dominate the battle through both the exo movement set and the new Exo Grapple ability.  We are also thrilled to reimagine one of the most popular Call of Duty maps ever, Modern Warfare® 2’s Highrise, with exo and grapple gameplay for fans to enjoy,” said Michael Condrey, Co-Founder and Studio Head, Sledgehammer Games. 
“This is not only the four new multiplayer maps, but the continuation of the popular Exo Zombies saga. We’re huge fans of Bruce Campbell and to be able to add him to the already great roster of performers in Exo Zombies takes this to a new level,” said Glen Schofield, Co-Founder and Studio head, Sledgehammer Games.
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare Supremacy includes four new, action-packed multiplayer maps, all featuring the new Exo Grapple mechanic, which adds a layer of fun and strategy to the experience. 
·         Parliament : Docked on the River Thames, this military cargo ship delivers a view of the London cityscape along with a fast-paced combat experience. Mixed site-lines provide opportunities for all styles of play to dominate this medium-sized map. Players can take control of the map-based scorestreak to unleash a barrage of missiles that annihilate enemies.
·         Kremlin : Gamers must prepare for intense combat outside Russia’s presidential palace in the new map Kremlin, as they navigate the worn-torn buildings of Red Square in this medium-sized, three-lane map. Secure elevated positions to give the team a strategic advantage, or use exoskeleton capabilities to avoid being caught in the minefield that activates mid-match.
·         Compound : Players take combat preparation to the limit in an Atlas training facility hidden away in the Colorado wilderness, as they’ll have to be quick on the trigger in this small, symmetrical map, which funnels high-speed combat through tight corners to the main tower structures.
·         Skyrise : Players deploy to an Atlas Skyscraper overlooking the Acropolis in Athens, Greece. Based on the fan-favourite, Highrise, from Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 by Infinity Ward , this map brings new exoskeleton mechanics to the classic multiplayer layout. Gamers must dominate the power positions in the centre of this small-to-medium sized map to control the key navigation points.
The popular Exo Zombies saga continues in the all-new episode, Carrier.  Following the end of the last episode, Infected, Bruce Campbell (Army of Darkness, Burn Notice ) steps in and joins the battle-hardened cast of John Malkovich (In the Line of Fire, RED, Burn After Reading), Bill Paxton (Aliens, Titanic, Edge of Tomorrow), Rose McGowan (Planet Terror, Scream) and Jon Bernthal (Fury, The Wolf of Wall Street). In Carrier, the four are trapped on an Atlas aircraft carrier.  Carrier features advanced new weaponry, enemy Atlas Strike teams, Sentinel support squads and a host of new zombie enemies.
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare Supremacy will be available first on Xbox Live on 2 nd June.  The Supremacy DLC Pack is also included in Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare’s DLC Season Pass*, featuring all four DLC Packs planned for the year, as part of the discounted bundle.
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare DLC is developed by Sledgehammer Games with additional development by Raven Software and High Moon Studios.  Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare is available for Xbox One, the all-in-one games and entertainment system from Microsoft, PlayStation®4, PC as well as Xbox 360 games and entertainment system from Microsoft and PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system. The title is rated M for Mature with Blood and Gore, Drug Reference, Intense Violence and Strong Language.  For the latest intel, check out: www.callofduty.com , www.facebook.com/callofduty , www.youtube.com/callofduty or follow @CallofDuty on Twitter and Instagram .
*Downloadable content in the Season Pass may be sold separately.  If you purchase the DLC Season Pass, do not also purchase these standalone DLC Map Packs, as you will be charged for them.  DLC Season Pass and DLC Map Packs may not be available on all platforms or in all territories.  Pricing and release dates may vary by platform.  Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare game required; sold separately.
About Activision Publishing, Inc.
Headquartered in Santa Monica, California, Activision Publishing, Inc. is a leading global producer and publisher of interactive entertainment. Activision maintains operations throughout the world. More information about Activision and its products can be found on the company's website, www.activision.com .
# # #
 
Games Press is the leading online resource for games journalists. Used daily by magazines, newspapers, TV, radio, online media and retailers worldwide, it offers a vast, constantly updated archive of press releases and assets, and is the simplest and most cost-effective way for PR professionals to reach the widest possible audience. Registration for the site and the Games Press email digest is available, to the trade only, at www.gamespress.com
FOLLOW US

