Arab-Israeli Conflict
05/27/2015 03:17
'Palestinians duping world by denying it pays salaries to prisoners in Israeli jails'
Report by Palestinian Media Watch claims PA spent $144 million in 2014 paying salaries to incarcerated and release prisoners.
Palestinian prisoners who were released from Israeli prisons as part of a prisoners exchange deal between Israel and Hamas wave from a bus .                      (photo credit:REUTERS)
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Palestinian Authority claims to have stopped paying salaries to convicted  terrorists in Israeli prisons is a ruse intended to dupe Western countries into  continuing financial support of the PA, according to a report released Sunday by  Palestinian Media Watch.
The report was published before a meeting of the  Ad Hoc Liaison Committee (AHLC) meeting scheduled for Wednesday in Brussels. The  AHLC, established in 1993 during the Oslo process, is the principal mechanism  for international aid to the Palestinian Authority.
According to the  report, written by PMW director Itamar Marcus, the PA in August 2014 announced  that it had closed its Ministry of Prisoners Affairs, which funneled monthly  salaries to terrorists, because of pressure from Western donors.
Rather  than a PA ministry, a PLO Commission of Prisoners Affairs – purportedly  independent of the PA and its funding – was set up to pay the  salaries.
The international community, according to the report, largely  accepted these changes as assurance the PA was no longer paying salaries to  terrorists.
“However,” the report read, “the PLO commission was new only  in name. The PLO body would have the same responsibilities and pay the exact  same amounts of salaries to prisoners; the former PA minister of prisoners  affairs, Issa Karake, became the director of the new PLO commission and PA  President Mahmoud Abbas retained overall supervision of the PLO  Commission.”
The Palestinian Authority declined to comment on the  report.
According to the report, based on comments made by Palestinian  officials, the perpetually financially strapped PA spent $144 million in 2014  paying salaries to incarcerated and release prisoners.
The report  recommended that Western donors “ask whether the PLO Commission for Prisoners  Affairs was created for the sole purpose of deceiving Western donors regarding  the payment of salaries to terrorists.”
Meanwhile, donors meeting in  Brussels on Wednesday will read a report submitted by UN Middle East envoy  Nickolay Mladenov highlighting the challenges to putting the PA’s finances on  solid footing.
“While the recent release of outstanding tax revenues by  Israel is welcome, it is essential that agreement on a sustainable solution on  tax collection in line with the Paris Protocol of the Oslo Accords is reached,” the report reads.
The report asserts that the current “untenable status  quo” between Israel and the Palestinians will “inexorably lead to the continued  erosion of living conditions for Palestinians and for Israelis alike and will  undermine the security and stability of all.”
Khaled Abu Toameh  contributed to this report.
Google Plus
Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com.    Disqus users can post comments automatically.
Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
Sign up for our newsletter
Submit
By signing up to The Jpost mailing list, I hereby
Accept the terms and conditions

