Menendez case promises to be high-stakes battle for senator, Justice Department
April 2, 2015, 11:52 PM    Last updated: Thursday, April 2, 2015, 11:59 PM
By HERB JACKSON and MARY JO LAYTON
staff writers | 
The Record
Abbe Lowell, left, attorney for Sen. Bob Menendez, speaking to the media Thursday outside federal court in Newark. Lowell has defended former New Jersey Sen. Robert Torricelli and former Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina.
It’s a fight to the finish, and in the end, either Sen. Bob Menendez’s career will be over or federal prosecutors will have sustained another black eye.
Menendez made his first appearance in court Thursday to plead not guilty, while his lawyers plotted strategy, his staff sought to show him fully engaged in his Senate duties and his team of advisers launched a social-media campaign to marshal support and raise money.
And the prosecution’s decision to charge Menendez with bribery, instead of an easier-to-prove charge of accepting gratuities, triggered debate about the government’s high-stakes gamble after a series of missteps in previous corruption cases.
“It’s one of the most serious accusations the government can make,” said Robert Mintz, a former federal prosecutor who heads white-collar criminal defense for McCarter & English, a leading New Jersey firm.
Outside a Newark courtroom Thursday, Menendez again took no questions but professed his innocence to 14 counts of bribery and other charges stemming from his relationship with a wealthy Florida physician, donor and friend. Menendez is accused of accepting nearly $1 million in gifts — flights on a private jet, vacations in Paris and the Caribbean — and campaign contributions from Salomon Melgen in exchange for promoting the physician’s business and personal interests.
On his first full day as an accused criminal, Menendez appeared resolute in fighting for his political life, while also appealing for public support and seeking to demonstrate that he can continue to do his job.
He issued a statement about the negotiations over Iran’s nuclear program and emailed a YouTube video to supporters in which he sought to make prosecutors look like the wrongdoers.
“It saddens me that our system of justice has already failed at its most basic level by leaking information and peddling rumors,” Menendez said. “But that failure affords me the opportunity to finally show beyond a doubt that the charges leveled today and through a nearly three-year campaign of innuendo and smears are completely false.”
His team launched a website, istandwithbob.com, that features statements of support from prominent Democrats, a business owner and a Superstorm Sandy victim, along with a link to contribute.
His staff put out the word that business went on as usual. At least 20 invitations for meetings and appearances arrived Thursday, they said, including a meeting with a Ukrainian minister and a request from NJ Transit to join in an event in Paterson next week for Stand Up for Transportation Day.
He renewed his call for action on a bill he’s co-sponsoring that would let senators have a say on the Iranian nuclear agreement announced in Switzerland on Thursday. His office also was fielding media requests to talk about the issue.
Menendez remains the top-ranking Democrat on a subcommittee that regulates housing and mass transit. And while he stepped down Wednesday from a similar position on the full Foreign Relations Committee, he is still one of the Senate’s experts on Iran.
On the legal front, Menendez will be relying on Abbe D. Lowell, 62, a onetime ethics counsel in the House who successfully defended former presidential candidate John Edwards and a litany of high-profile politicians accused of corruption. Former Sen. Robert Torricelli from New Jersey, who also faced a corruption investigation but was not charged, is another past client.
The lead prosecutor is Peter Koski, a 36-year-old deputy chief of the Justice Department’s public integrity section described as ambitious and an up-and-coming trial expert.
It’s not the first time Lowell and Koski have faced off over a legislator accused of corruption. Hector Martinez Maldonado, a senator from Puerto Rico, was accused of bribery for accepting a trip to a Las Vegas boxing match in 2005 and voting for legislation beneficial to the businessman who paid for it.
With Lowell’s help, Martinez was acquitted in 2012 of three of the four counts against him. And while he was sentenced to 48 months in prison on the fourth count, that conviction was overturned on appeal.
But before any trial starts in U.S. District Court in Newark, veteran defense attorneys said, Lowell and his team will dissect the indictment and file motions to dismiss all or parts of the government’s case.
Likely areas to be challenged include whether any of the actions Menendez is accused of taking in exchange for bribes — such as seeking leniency for Melgen for overbilling Medicare by $9 million, endorsing visas so Melgen’s girlfriends in three countries could come to Florida and trying to get the United States to pressure the Dominican Republic over a security contract Melgen owned there — are protected by the “speech or debate” clause of the Constitution.
The clause says members of Congress cannot be questioned by the executive branch for legislative acts. Menendez’s legal team, which also includes Jenny Kramer, a former prosecutor who served in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Newark when Governor Christie ran it, has already tried to use the clause to restrict the government’s investigation.
The defense also might try to persuade the court to throw out the government’s allegation that Melgen bribed Menendez with $600,000 in contributions to a “super” political action committee, which by law operates independently from candidates.
Defense attorneys also could file a motion for dismissal on the grounds that even if all facts alleged are true, there’s still no crime committed, said Michael Koenig, a former trial attorney in the fraud section of the Justice Department. Any hint of prosecutorial misconduct during grand jury proceedings could also be grounds to request a dismissal, Koenig said.
“The Department of Justice took a huge black eye after the Ted Stevens case,” he said referring to the late Alaska senator whose corruption conviction was overturned in 2009 due to prosecutorial misconduct. “They certainly have articulated a desire to learn from those lessons so that the misconduct in that case was not repeated,” Koenig said. “Time will tell.”
The year after the conviction was tossed, Koski was sent to Alaska to help deal with state corruption cases left in disarray by the Stevens case, according to The New York Times. Koski was later sent to Louisiana after federal prosecutors there were removed from a case because of questionable behavior. The Stevens debacle also led the Obama administration to overhaul the public integrity section of the Justice Department.
Solomon L. Wisenberg, a Washington, D.C.-based white-collar defense attorney who served as a federal prosecutor and deputy to independent counsel Kenneth Starr, said it’s unlikely any charges would be dropped before a trial begins.
“To get charges thrown out, unless there’s shocking government misconduct, is very hard to do,” Wisenberg said.
Among the 14 counts against Menendez are eight counts of bribery. “The Department of Justice raised the stakes by calling it bribery,” Wisenberg said, because the charge requires a linkage between benefits Menendez received and actions he took on behalf of Melgen.
Tags:

