 UPDATED 8:03 PM HST May 26, 2015
Video Transcript
As we reported at the top of the hour .... Governor Ige has given the Thirty Meter Telescope organizers the right to move forward with construction. This has been a POLARIZING topic... In our Trends and Talkers .. Construction was halted in April after mass protests. However, No word yet on WHEN construction will resume. Mike Heltz thank progress, can't wait to see the images this produces. it's going to be able to see too the edge of time and space, too the beginning of mankind. thats worth any mountain. #WeAreTelescopes . Carlos Alomar $$$$$ Hawaii sold to $$$$$. How does the song go? It's all about the money, money, money!!!! Kelsey Okuda "has the right to move forward". In other words, they will sue the state for breach of contract if they don't start those bulldozers back up soon. Michael Lyons The Mountain Is. Long before men. Long after. It will shrug this all off. The pettiness, the greed, the righteous indignation. In time. Strong statements from both sides. Join the conversation and let us know what you think ..
RELATED
Comments
The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.
4min
Police are warning the public to be aware of an inmate who escaped from Maui Community Correctional Center on Tuesday.
4min
Police are warning the public to be aware of an inmate who escaped from Maui Community Correctional Center on Tuesday.
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

