posted: April 05
posted: April 05
Updated:                                 December 30
Updated:                                 12:50 am
COEUR d'ALENE - More wolves were detected in the Panhandle wolf management zone than any other in Idaho last year, the state's annual monitoring report for the predator shows.
The Idaho Department of Fish and Game released the report Friday, and it shows 58 wolves were detected by qualified agency personnel through monitoring flights or ground observations conducted this past winter. The Panhandle also had the greatest number of packs.
"We documented 20 packs believed to have denned in the Panhandle, but there are no doubt additional packs not documented, and documented packs from adjacent jurisdictions whose territories include parts of the Panhandle," Jim Hayden, Fish and Game's head wolf biologist, said Friday.
Fish and Game officials determined the Bumblebee pack, which inhabits the Coeur d'Alene River drainage, has a minimum of 14 wolves.
"Bumblebee was indeed the biggest pack documented in the Panhandle last year at 14," Hayden said. "That number has undoubtedly changed already with at least one wolf harvested since then, and dispersal expected. We don't typically see a large pack remaining large for a long period of time - numbers tend to ebb and flow."
The Dixie Queen pack to the north of Bumblebee has at least 7 members. The Chilco pack, with territory just to the west of the two others, includes Hayden Lake and has at least four members.
Hayden said Fish and Game could find no evidence last year that the Mica Peak pack was still out there.
"We still have reports of occasional wolves in the area, and I wouldn't be surprised at all if we get evidence in the next year or two and they come back on to the list," he said.
There were 85 wolves harvested in the Panhandle by hunters and trappers last year, which was far more than in any other Wolf Management Zone in the state. The next closest was the Dworshak-Elk City zone with 32.
For all of Idaho there were 104 documented packs at the end of 2014 and an estimated 770 wolves. That's far more than the 150 required by the 2009 federal de-listing rule, but fewer than the peak years of 2008 and 2009.
There are also 23 documented border packs counted by Montana, Wyoming and Washington that have established territories that spill into Idaho.
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service re-introduced 66 gray wolves into central Idaho and Yellowstone National Park in 1995 and 1996 to restore populations in the northern Rocky Mountain states. In 2011, the federal government de-listed wolves in the northern Rockies from protections of the Endangered Species Act, and management responsibility was transferred to states.
Hunters and trappers in the state harvested a total of 256 wolves last year, which was 100 fewer than 2013.
To protect livestock, 67 wolves were killed last year, less than the 94 in 2013.
Officials were able to confirm wolves killed 43 cattle, 100 sheep, three dogs and one horse. Ten more cattle, seven sheep and one dog were classified as "probable" wolf kills.
There were no reports of cattle, sheep, dogs or horses killed in the Panhandle by wolves.
Welcome to the discussion.
Screen Name or Email
fiepie posted at 1:33 pm on Sun, Apr 5, 2015.
Posts: 2794
The woodland caribou are still in the Selkirks north of Priest. But so are wolves.
JustaView posted at 12:13 pm on Sun, Apr 5, 2015.
Posts: 8
Geeze, I wonder what has happened to those mountain Caribou that used to roam the forests in the north?  Must have been the winter Huh?  I think not
Curtis John posted at 11:07 am on Sun, Apr 5, 2015.
Posts: 94
Are you kidding me about no wolf attacks on dogs?  I personally know a hound hunter who had two dogs killed for fun by wolves.  Alls you have to do is google it.
Why are all the experts  on wolves guys who don't even hunt?
fiepie posted at 8:23 am on Sun, Apr 5, 2015.
Posts: 2794
The wolf we have now use to live in the States. Back in the fifties we called them timber but also grey and now referred to as Canadian, wolfs.
There was a bounty on them then with no restrictions as to having a license or amount killed.
As with the caribou in north Idaho the wolf also crossed the border from Canada into the States since they existed.
Michigan and Minnesota both have high numbers of wolfs but also have more deer and moose than Idaho, killed by hunters.
Through my lifetime there have been years where we were allowed to shoot any sex elk, more than one deer and sometimes were able to get three or more tags for deer.
Then there were many years where we were limited to branch antlered elk and one deer, both in Idaho and Montana.
There were years when it was remarkable to even find an elk track but as soon as season closed to see them standing by the highway. Many things effect the herds. The number one is the winters. This year should be a better year with a higher percentage of survival for the fawns and calves.
Wolves, like other predators, seldom kill for "sport". They somehow understand their bodies are subject to being injured or they themselves killed while trying to take prey.
Have seen bears kill a large amount of sheep, same as coyotes and so am satisfied wolves will also, if given the opportunity but also realize they usually only take what they need at the time.
Self preservation.
JustaView posted at 7:25 am on Sun, Apr 5, 2015.
Posts: 8
I've hunted in N. Idaho for the last 40 years.  I've seen the decline in the Elk and Deer here profoundly since the introduction of Wolves of a species I'm told were never indigenous here.  My understanding is they are a far more powerful predator and because of that much more sucessful than the previous Wolfs which inhabited this area.  Combine that with the much more heavily for rested areas here which provide great cover for them it makes for a perfect situation for us to never get an accurate count of the actual numbers.  They're cunning, fast, and very smart animals who can avoid detection easily.  I fear there are far more of them out there than F & G reports.  I completely support Wolf Management but at this point doubt its success in its current form.
Jdecoy posted at 6:29 am on Sun, Apr 5, 2015.
Posts: 43
Hey downtowncda! I'm wondering if those 5 other states didn't want you or if you chose to leave? You'll have to excuse my lack of intelligence and travel time since I'm just a dumb north idaho native and my college degree came in the mail but maybe you should get out of bed with fish and game. The fact that you rely on them for the truth is your biggest problem!!! Comparing Minnesota to idaho Is not even relevant and if you enjoy their wolf population then maybe you should consider a move. I'll help with gas!!!. They harvested almost half of what Idaho's total deer population was last year. Your not comparing apples to apples and I wouldn't consider 100 elk a thriving herd! You need to get your facts straight about what the wolves have done to our elk herds. Maybe instead of relying on F&G for info you should get off the pavement and take a look for yourself. The lolo zone had over 16k elk in the late 80's and  now they are around 2000 with wolves being the main reason for decline. We no longer have a general cow season and while other factors have not helped our elk herds the wolves have been the main reason for such a decline. Yet  you say our elk herds are thriving????  I have the feeling you're the type that wants the wolves left unmanaged? Wolves kill what they want not what they need and the only way Idaho's elk herds will rebound will be to kill more wolves. It's pretty cut and dry! Please show me any valid info that are elk herds in idaho are doing well!!!!
NIdahoborn posted at 6:20 am on Sun, Apr 5, 2015.
Posts: 35
DTCDA...yep born and raised here in CDA. Didn't say I lived here the whole time. College Educated and traveled the world...if that helps set your mind at ease. Maybe you should go back to one of the other states you lived in and take your scientifically lacking ideas with you. Maybe if you had inquired more about the supposed "Elk Control" measures done by F&G you might find that means giving out more tags or special tags....not wiping out Elk herds. Especially for as few as 16 Elk. Again this just proves your ignorance. I have never heard of them wiping out a den of pups.... I don't know why/how they would even do it. The majority of the wolf control measures is by salaried trappers working year round...I know some...they don't know where dens are...they trap when they are on the move they don't wander the forest looking for wolf dens.
downtowncda posted at 4:25 pm on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 267
Lots of backpedaling Cody. When you are done pondering the existence of Buffalo in Boise. Step away from this post and take a look at what's going on with wolf management in Minnesota. You may or may not be aware that they have been dealing wolves far longer than any other state.
You will find a healthy wolf population with over 3,000 animals in that state. Amazingly enough, their herds are doing well also.
Don't pretend to speak for other states. You can't even get your local facts right.
downtowncda posted at 2:47 pm on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 267
NIdahoborn,  my information comes from Fish & Game official reports. The Elk controls came way before there was any talk of controlling deer in those areas.
The Elk control  information also came from Fish & Game only via a face to face conversation I had with a F & G officer.  I was required to provide a list of property owners that a mailing went out to of homeowners in the affected areas for one of the Elk controls. The F & G officer explained the situation to me while he was waiting for me to extract the data on the ownerships from the database. He told me that this particular control was taking place in an area where a new large subdivision had been built. The new homeowners were complaining about their flowers being eaten. He told me that the subdivision was build right in the middle of the migratory path that an Elk herd had used forever. The herd had 16 in their number.
He said they didn't expect to get any responses back from the homeowners via the mailing based on past history of doing Elk controls in this type of situation. So, the entire Elk herd was killed for eating flowers. This isn't the stuff that's publicized and makes the papers. It's some of the the dirty little secrets like when they wait until the wolves have puppies to do a control so it's easier to climb into the dens to kill all the pups.
I have lived in 6 different states in 15 different locations through the decades. . I see from your screen name that you were born in North Idaho, a region certainly known for it's higher education standards and worldly travelers... I'm sure your knowledge is much superior to anything that Fish & Game reports..
downtowncda posted at 2:17 pm on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 267
Cody, you need to educate yourself. The foundation herd that is the basis for Elk existing in the Panhandle today was brought here in the back of trucks from the Yellowstone area. . The photos and history of the Elk transplant are online should you wish to learn something. They simply were never here in large numbers, but the wolf was here. This area was never able to support large herds because it never had a sufficient amount of grasslands. This area has more "dark woods and steep hills" than most.  They were in areas where there were LARGE GRASSLANDS.
I'm sorry you are so shocked and appalled that predator animals kill prey animals. Your issue there would be with the creation of such animals.
I cannot answer why the owner had the dog and doghouse so far away from the main house. The exact yardage was disclosed in the official Fish & Game report. That's online too if you want to read it. Because every single statement you made contradicts documented fact, who is the ignorant one?
Cody posted at 2:11 pm on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 98
For small minded people that "think" wolf damages are limited to this area my comments might seem wrong. However wolf problems cover many States which both border us or not. Elk and buffalo wandered those regions. Buffs were not up here but I would not doubt they could have been found in lower parts of Idaho. The comments I make cover other peoples issues with out of control wolves.
fiepie posted at 1:54 pm on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 2794
I am surprised that both elk and buffalo lived in the lands that "downtown" dwells in. That is if downtown lives somewhere on this side of the divide.
Elk were introduced to Idaho in what year?
Buffalo ranged from where to where?
(This is for Cody and don't anyone give him any hints....)
ceres57 posted at 12:06 pm on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 169
Sorry, Cody, but the ignorant fool on here today seems to be you.  I've noticed that people with limited vocabularies are the ones who like to call others names.
Now, pay attention Homer, and I will explain to you how it works.
As prey populations increase in size so do the predator populations. Agree?  Once the numbers of predators get large enough the prey populations start to dwindle, leaving less food for the predator populations causing them to decrease in population.  Its called a cycle.
If you would have stuck it out and finished the 9th grade you might have learned this.
Cody posted at 10:03 am on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 98
As any fool should know all these lands (like where downtown lives) we/you occupy and have destroyed  were once the homes of massive herds of grass eating animals. The populations of buffalo/elk etc were large enough to sustain predator attacks. The lush regions we occupy fed them much better than the dark woods and steep hills.  Now these  animal are forced to try to exist on much less productive lands, are hunted and now tracked down and killed by wolves? Why did they need the wolves thrown into their difficult lives on much harsher lands?
The only good wolf is one with holes put through it. Ask any dog, deer, fawn, elk etc being eaten alive by a pack of wolves. By the way the dog was secured to a pole and how far away is like...far away. Downtown who lives on a postage stamp lot thinks far away is 10'   out here in the countryside far away can be a few hundred feet. No one out here is going to secure a dog a few hundred feet away to then need to feed and water them. But because you are...ignorant we must just laugh at you...fool.
...and we do ;-0
ceres57 posted at 9:41 am on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 169
How is it that there were any deer or elk in the America's when Columbus arrived?   Shouldn't they have been extinct from wolf predation?  Answer that, all you arm chair wildlife biologist.
NIdahoborn posted at 9:33 am on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 35
You can't blame downtowncda for the lack of knowledge and awareness. By their screen name you can tell they never leave town. I know of 3 dogs lost this year and at least half a dozen cows that were verified wolf kills. Down town you can't rely  on the press for all of your info. F&G didn't control any Elk in Rathdrum or Hayden.....those were deer. Shouldn't expect you to know the difference though.
downtowncda posted at 8:27 am on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 267
Your right 1 dog killed by wolves. I did forget about that, as I recall that dog was chained far from the house and the attack occurred late at night. That's exactly how you want to treat a family pet in an area where wolves, bear and mountain lion are known to inhabit. Another idiot.
If you want to find out about the Elk problem in the Hayden/Rathdrum areas, contact Fish & Game and find out how many Elk they "controlled" because the neighbors were upset that they were eating their flowers....
luvcda2 posted at 8:10 am on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 19
No livestock lost, zero losses downtowncda? I know  two different families who had dogs attacked and another "disappear", and cow/calf killed. F&G said it was a wolf kill, another family horse attacked and none of these made the paper. I'm sure there are many instances just like these. We started having less fawns surviving around where we live and more wolf sightings. They were seen day and night! This is in the Panhandle.
Cody posted at 6:52 am on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 98
Elk herds north of Hayden are all but gone now. What use to be an annual visitation to this area and on our fields has ceased to happen. Tracks are scarce. The the Press covered a wolf killing near wolf lodge of a dog secured to a phone pole in the yard. The tracks in the snow were found to be two wolves coming in from the tree line killing the large dog and dragging it off after pulling it off the collar.
Apparently some have selective memory here...... for ever encounter on can easily bet and win there are dozens more never reported. The dogs in th missing dog posters in the countryside are in wolf/coyote scat piles....
downtowncda posted at 6:40 am on Sat, Apr 4, 2015.
Posts: 267
The  Panhandle wolves have been exemplary without loss of livestock, horses or dogs.  Zero losses of domestic animals year after year and yet, the Governor has appropriated over 440k to exterminate the few remaining wolves specifically in the Panhandle region. The Panhandle has the greatest number of wolves, yet only 58 could be located?  That's over$ 7,500.00 per wolf waiting to be spent to kill the 58 remaining .  The pups are killed in their den by Fish & Game officials. This will be a done deal in the next couple of months and nothing can be done to stop it.
Fish & Game did not want this, they didn't ask for any money for wolf control.  The Elk herds are thriving.  Only our dim witted governor demanded this. His hatred of wolves, plus the money from the trophy Elk hunters lining his pockets are responsible for this stupid, senseless act.   He he knows better than the Fish & Game Department? Yea, right..... All the data given to him that shows no problems, he must have thrown it in the trash.  Idiot.
Phone number: 208-664-8176
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho 83814
Screen Name or Email

