NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
She plucked him from obscurity to run her 2000 campaign for United States Senate, sat onstage at his swearing-in as mayor of New York City and, just this month, visited Brooklyn for a high-profile photo opportunity with his wife.
But when it came time for Bill de Blasio to return the favor on Sunday by endorsing Hillary Rodham Clinton for president, the mayor’s answer was clear:
Not just yet.
In a televised moment rich with political intrigue, Mr. de Blasio repeatedly declined to offer Mrs. Clinton his blessing during an interview on NBC’s “ Meet the Press ,” saying he would hold off until learning more about his former boss’s economic platform.
“Like a lot of people in this country, I want to see a vision,” Mr. de Blasio told Chuck Todd, the show’s host, who had asked the mayor if he would “unequivocally” endorse Mrs. Clinton or wait to see if she adopted more liberal positions akin to his own.
Photo
Mayor Bill de Blasio appeared on "Meet the Press" on Sunday. Credit NBC News
The mayor’s remarks — which prompted plaudits from liberal groups, and consternation among some of Mrs. Clinton’s supporters — stood in stark contrast with other high-profile New York Democrats, including Senator Charles E. Schumer and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo , who offered full-throated approval on Sunday of Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy.
And Mr. de Blasio’s comments come as he is seeking a louder voice in national Democratic politics. The mayor is flying to the early nominating state of Iowa this week, part of a two-day Midwest tour designed to raise awareness about income inequality, his signature issue.
His appearance on “Meet the Press” was booked days before it became clear Mrs. Clinton would enter the race on Sunday. But the timing of the comments, amid lingering questions on whether Mrs. Clinton can capture the allegiance of her party’s left wing, drew immediate interest.
“This is her announcement day,” said Hilary Rosen, a Democratic political strategist and longtime supporter of Mrs. Clinton. “It’s one thing to say we’re looking forward to listening to her policies, to examining it more and the like. It’s another thing to kind of stomp on it. I just thought that his tone seemed to stomp on it.”
In a pair of Twitter posts on Sunday, Ms. Rosen described the mayor’s remarks as “self-aggrandizing” at Mrs. Clinton’s expense, drawing some unfriendly replies. She later wrote that she “didn’t mean to disrespect @BilldeBlasio.”
Photo
Mayor Bill de Blasio, right, after he was sworn in on Jan. 1, 2014, with Hillary Clinton and former President Bill Clinton. Credit Jason Szenes/European Pressphoto Agency
Other strategists viewed Mr. de Blasio’s remarks as a smart political play, both to shore up his credentials as a spokesman for the Democratic left and to elevate the value of his endorsement, should it eventually come.
“What you give away early has less value later,” said Hank Sheinkopf, a prominent Democratic consultant in New York City and a veteran of Bill Clinton’s second presidential campaign.
“He is setting himself up to be the national progressive kingmaker,” Mr. Sheinkopf said of the mayor, “the stamp of approval for the left.”
Despite a long association, Mrs. Clinton declined to endorse Mr. de Blasio during his mayoral bid until after he had captured the Democratic nomination, which virtually assured his victory. At the time, Mr. de Blasio warmly welcomed the nod , saying, “I am proud to come from the Clinton family.”
Representatives for Mr. de Blasio and Mrs. Clinton declined to comment on Sunday. Privately, the mayor’s advisers have rejected the notion that Mr. de Blasio’s national effort is about raising his profile, describing it instead as a grass-roots movement to promote the policy ideas, like higher wages and affordable housing, that he believes can narrow the nation’s wealth gap.
Still, the notion of Mrs. Clinton’s former campaign manager declining to endorse her on network television, hours before she declared her candidacy , was bound to attract attention to the mayor. Mr. de Blasio, a relative newcomer to the national political scene, found himself the subject of dozens of news reports on Sunday tying his comments to Mrs. Clinton’s relationship with the left.
“You see the hesitancy right there,” Maria Hinojosa, a radio host and another guest on “Meet the Press,” said after Mr. de Blasio finished his remarks. “He was her campaign manager. You would expect him to say, ‘I’m in!’ ”
A version of this article appears in print on April 13, 2015, on page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Saying He Wants More Policy Details, de Blasio Holds Off on Endorsing Clinton . Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...

