Latest Headlines
Featured
Featured
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.
First Name
Last Name
To place an obituary, please call 305-376-8901 or email obit@miamiherald.com .
Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.
For more information about placing obituaries, click here .
By Patricia Mazzei
The Miami Herald
04/06/2015 7:19 PM
04/06/2015 7:19 PM
Jeb Bush admitted Monday that he made a “mistake” in 2009 when he listed his ethnicity in a Miami-Dade County voter-registration form as “Hispanic.”
The likely 2016 Republican presidential contender is, obviously, not Hispanic, at least not by birth. Yet that’s what he ticked as his “race/ethnicity” in the form filed March 6, 2009.
Bush’s admission came in a tweet to his son who joked about a New York Times story revealing the elder Bush’s confusing registration, filed after he left the Florida governor’s mansion. A Bush spokeswoman couldn’t explain the discrepancy to the Times.
The Miami Herald notes that the Miami elections department requires a hard copy of the form, which needs the applicant’s signature.
Bush’s wife, Columba, is Mexican American, so she and their children are Hispanic. And Bush is, in the literal sense of the word, “Hispanic” — that is, he speaks Spanish. He met his wife in León, Mexico, and as a young married couple they lived in Caracas, Venezuela.
Politicians have been dragged down in the past by messing up on government forms. In 2012, Massachusetts Democrat Elizabeth Warren misrepresented herself as a Native American during her Senate race, prompting significant backlash. For Bush, identifying as Hispanic wouldn’t have resulted in any political gain.
Miami’s Cuban Americans already consider Bush an honorary member of their community, given that his ties to the exile establishment run so deep.
The Democratic opposition group, American Bridge , compiled a round up of video reports on the mix up.
Join the Discussion
Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

