Editor: zhenglimin 丨Xinhua
05-26-2015 17:55 BJT
Font size:
BEIJING, May 26 (Xinhua) -- China's Ministry of Transport (MOT) on Tuesday hosted a groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of two lighthouses on Huayang Reef and Chigua Reef of China's Nansha Islands.
In order to enhance the civil aids to navigation capacity in the waters of Nansha Islands, the MOT plans to construct two multi-functional lighthouses, which will provide efficient navigation service to the passing vessels and "immensely improve the navigation safety" in the South China Sea, according to a statement from the MOT.
A groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of the lighthouses is held on Huayang Reef of China's Nansha Islands, May 26, 2015. China's Ministry of Transport (MOT) on Tuesday hosted a groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of two lighthouses on Huayang Reef and Chigua Reef of China's Nansha Islands. In order to enhance the civil aids to navigation capacity in the waters of Nansha Islands, the MOT plans to construct two multi-functional lighthouses, which will provide efficient navigation service to the passing vessels and "immensely improve the navigation safety" in the South China Sea, according to a statement from the MOT. (Xinhua/Lu Rui)
Integrated with elements of traditional Chinese culture, the two 50-meter-high lighthouses, with lanterns of 4.5 meters in diameter, are designed to have a light range of 22 nautical miles.
The South China Sea is an important international maritime transport route as well as a major fishing ground. A large number of fishing vessels operate in this area all year round, which has led to many maritime traffic accidents.
A groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of the lighthouses is held on Huayang Reef of China's Nansha Islands, May 26, 2015. China's Ministry of Transport (MOT) on Tuesday hosted a groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of two lighthouses on Huayang Reef and Chigua Reef of China's Nansha Islands. In order to enhance the civil aids to navigation capacity in the waters of Nansha Islands, the MOT plans to construct two multi-functional lighthouses, which will provide efficient navigation service to the passing vessels and "immensely improve the navigation safety" in the South China Sea, according to a statement from the MOT. (Xinhua/Lu Rui)
Lighthouses are vital public facilities for navigation safety, and are usually constructed at key ports and critical positions of waterways to provide navigation service for vessels or indicate dangerous areas through refraction from the lens on the top.
BEIJING, May 26 (Xinhua) -- China's Ministry of Transport hosted a groundbreaking ceremony on Tuesday for the construction of two multi-functional lighthouses on Huayang Reef and Chigua Reef of China's Nansha Islands, so as to improve the navigation safety in the South China Sea.
A groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of the lighthouses is held on Huayang Reef of China's Nansha Islands, May 26, 2015. China's Ministry of Transport (MOT) on Tuesday hosted a groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of two lighthouses on Huayang Reef and Chigua Reef of China's Nansha Islands. In order to enhance the civil aids to navigation capacity in the waters of Nansha Islands, the MOT plans to construct two multi-functional lighthouses, which will provide efficient navigation service to the passing vessels and "immensely improve the navigation safety" in the South China Sea, according to a statement from the MOT. (Xinhua/Lu Rui)
Related Videos
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Instagram
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Wechat
We Recommend
The Kucha Grottos Part 1
China’s 30th Parallel Part 54
Snacking away around China Part 3
Travelling Along the Silk Road Part 2
A stroll in Ejin
Luzhou's taste of intoxication
Tag Cloud
Copyright © 2015 China Central Television. All Rights Reserved

