Rand Paul tries to balance Iowa’s libertarian, evangelical ideals
A Quinnipiac University poll released Thursday showed Sen. Rand Paul performing better against Hillary Rodham Clinton in Iowa and Colorado, both swing states, than did Mike Huckabee, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida and Wisconsin Gov. ... more >
By Ralph Z. Hallow -      The Washington Times -                                    Thursday, April 9, 2015
In the coalition-building exercise that occurs every four years during a Republican presidential race, libertarians and evangelicals have always been wary of each other. Nowhere has that been more obvious than the first-in-the-nation contest state of Iowa, which has given surprising lifts to evangelical favorites such as Pat Robertson and Mike Huckabee over the years.
That history would suggest that Rand Paul, the iconic libertarian in the 2016 race, might have much to worry about Feb. 2 when the Iowa caucuses are held.
But the senator from Kentucky has spent much time and effort over the past two years building essential bridges to evangelical leaders who have automatic affinity for rivals such as Mr. Huckabee and Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas. He has traveled to Israel to show his support there, met with pastors and talked openly about his own Christian faith.
On the eve of his first official presidential campaign visit to Iowa on Friday, there are signs that Mr. Paul might be making progress. A poll released Thursday showed him leading Hillary Rodham Clinton in a hypothetical general election matchup and outperforming many of his Republican rivals.
Some longtime Iowa political observers say Mr. Paul could prove history wrong this time.
“ Rand Paul is uniquely positioned to win right now,” Iowa pastor Mark Doland told The Washington Times. “If you handicap the 2012 caucuses and apply the narrative, he wins. There are multiple establishment candidates and evangelical candidates that will split that vote many ways.”
As if to make the point about Mr. Paul ’s competitiveness in Iowa, the Quinnipiac University poll released Thursday showed him performing better against Mrs. Clinton in Iowa and Colorado, both swing states, than did Mr. Huckabee , former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker.
Do the numbers imply that Mr. Paul is big enough with evangelicals to take Iowa and run? Not yet, observers say, noting that Mr. Paul ’s father, former Rep. Ron Paul, never quite connected with religious conservatives in the state.
“ Rand Paul is seen by evangelicals as an interesting candidate,” Mr. Doland said. “They are intrigued about his brand of conservatism with his strong appeals to young people.”
Mr. Doland and others say Mr. Paul will have to adjust his campaign’s basic approach, which sometimes seems as if it wants to be all things to all people.
“Evangelicals are watching to see how he differs from his father — as are many others voters,” said Mr. Doland . “He appears to stand with Israel, and that is appealing to the evangelical base of the party.”
Mr. Paul began his informal Republican nomination quest more than two years ago with the active wooing of born-again Christians, especially in Iowa. He has been partially successful, by most accounts, but not enough to push him comfortably ahead of three rivals: Mr. Cruz and Mr. Huckabee , both Protestants, and Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, a Catholic convert from Hinduism. Some put Mr. Walker, also an evangelical, in that top tier of competitors for the blessings of Iowa evangelicals as well.
“ Rand is the only candidate that inherits a segment of the vote that was substantial in 2012 and that went to his father,” said Mr. Doland , the evangelical pastor.
Iowa, not New Hampshire, was the early contest state that Ron Paul came closest to winning clearly and unequivocally in 2012.
Ron Paul, who was representing Texas in Congress, delivered what Iowa Republican Party Chairman A.J. Spiker at the time called “a 200 proof libertarian message” and still managed to grab 21.4 percent of the vote in Iowa, good for third but only 3 percentage points behind former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania in first place and eventual party nominee Mitt Romney in second.
Shares
Related Stories
Question of the Day
Is President Obama right that a nuke deal with Iran will make U.S. safer?
Question of the Day
 

