Oklahoma legislators believe they have come up with a good backup plan in case lethal injection isn't a viable option for an execution: Nitrogen gas hypoxia.
The Oklahoma Senate sent the governor a bill that says the new method can be used if lethal injections drugs become unavailable. Gov. Mary Fallin (R) is a supporter of the death penalty, but her office would not comment on the bill. Executions in the state are on hiatus, following a botched execution last year that took 43 minutes to complete. The U.S. Supreme Court is now considering if the state's lethal injection method using three separate drugs is constitutional.
It's also been difficult for many states to get lethal injection drugs, as more and more pharmaceutical companies refuse to sell them for use in executions. The bill's author, Rep. Mike Christian (R-Oklahoma City), says that the process is "fast and painless. It's foolproof." Since it's easy to get nitrogen, "there is no way for anti-death penalty activists...to restrict its supply." Rep. Emily Virgin (D-Norman) thinks this is a dangerous line of thinking, telling The Associated Press , "It just hasn't been tried, so we don't know. This is all based on some Internet research and a documentary from the BBC."
Johnsplaining
 
Your online passwords are terrible. You know that. On Last Week Tonight, Edward Snowden explained to John Oliver why that matters. "Bad passwords are one of the easiest ways to compromise a system," he said. "For someone who has a very common eight-character password, it can literally take less than a second for a computer to go through the possibilities and pull that password out."
Oliver tested out some passwords in front of Snowden, and it turns out misspelling common words or sticking in a number ("4eva") won't help you. "The best advice here," Snowden said, "is to shift your thinking from passwords to passphrases." His suggestion: something like "margaretthatcheris110%SEXY" — which is not only harder to crack but probably also easier to remember than a 13-character mix of letters, numbers, and symbols. John Oliver was impressed: "Wow, that is a password that not even a computer would guess." Now you know, but as Oliver made clear, knowing is just half the battle. —Peter Weber
In a win for bees, Lowe's announced Thursday it will stop selling a pesticide that is suspected of killing honeybee populations that are necessary for pollinating crops, completely phasing it out of products and plants by the spring of 2019.
Neonicotinoids, or neonics, boost yields of crops, but can also be used on plants that people buy for their homes. Scientists believe that bee deaths are linked to neonics, Reuters reports , and are extremely worried, as honeybees pollinate plants that produce roughly 25 percent of food eaten by Americans.
A study released in 2014 by Friends of the Earth and the Pesticide Research Institute showed that 51 percent of plants purchased at Lowe's, Walmart, and Home Depot in 18 cities in the U.S. and Canada had high enough levels of neonics to harm or kill bees. Home Depot has asked its suppliers to label plants treated with neonics, and is conducting tests to see if plants can remain healthy without the use of the pesticide.
 
A guard who was shot in the chest at the U.S. Census Bureau headquarters in Suitland, Maryland, died Thursday night, and police shot the suspect after a chase through Washington, D.C.
Initial reports are that the gunman rammed gates outside U.S. Census Bureau headquarters http://t.co/dy39EImbFF pic.twitter.com/drpJD2HRih
The gunman is described by authorities as being in his 30s or 40s, and police say he kidnapped his wife in D.C., before heading to the Census Bureau, NBC Washington reports . D.C. Police Chief Cathy Lanier said the guard, identified as 59-year-old Lawrence Buckner, saw the suspect arguing with someone in his car, and was shot after he approached the vehicle. Police later spotted the gunman's Honda at 3rd and K streets in D.C., and after a pursuit, gunfire was exchanged between officers and the suspect. He was shot multiple times, and while his condition is unknown, his wife is safe, authorities say. One officer was shot in the leg during the confrontation and two others were also injured, but they did not sustain life-threatening injuries.
After the shooting at the Bureau, a statement released on Twitter confirmed that "there has been an incident at the Suitland Federal Center and there is an ongoing investigation. We are committed to the safety of all staff who work at the Census Bureau and are currently making sure that everyone is safe and secure."
 
On Thursday, a man on trial for fraudulent bankruptcy fired 13 shots inside a Milan courthouse, killing his lawyer, co-defendant, and judge.
Defendant opens fire in Italian courthouse, killing judge, lawyer and co-defendant http://t.co/4nfhdcQNS8 pic.twitter.com/lxe3Dmgl9V
The man, identified as 57-year-old real estate developer Claudio Giardiello, was able to slip out of the building, and was caught in a shopping center 25 kilometers away about an hour later. Prosecutors say that Giardiello was still armed with a loaded pistol, and had plans to kill another business partner that he felt was behind their failed real estate venture, The Associated Press reports . The shooting has raised concerns among Italians over security in the country's courthouses, as many duties have been outsourced to private contractors.
In Italy, visitors and defendants in proceedings must go through a metal detector at the courthouse, and Premier Matteo Renzi said there will be an investigation into how Giardiello was able to bring a gun into the tribunal, adding, "Our commitment is that this never happens again." Lawyers and court officials do not have the same requirement, and the chief federal prosecutor told reporters it is possible Giardiello used a forged document to gain entrance that way.
Cuba's foreign trade minister said on Thursday that North and South American companies are welcome to discuss with the government setting up shop on the island.
Rodrigo Malmierca met with foreign business leaders in Panama, a day before the Summit of the Americas, and remarked that Cuba wants $2.5 billion in foreign direct investment. "We recognize the importance of international insertion into our economy to diversify our foreign trade, increase access to foreign financing and increasing the participation of foreign capital in the Cuban economy," he said. "We are convinced the countries of the region will accompany Cuba in these endeavors."
Last year, Cuba approved a foreign investment law offering hefty tax cuts and investment security in an attempt to bring in capital. Areas that are considered favorable for investment include agriculture, sugar, nickel mining, building renovation, infrastructure, and real estate development, Reuters reports . Interest in doing business in Cuba has increased since the announcement late last year that President Obama and Cuba's President Raul Castro would restore diplomatic relations.
 
Authorities on Thursday released dash cam video footage of the moments leading up to the fatal shooting of Walter Scott Saturday in North Charleston, South Carolina.
The video, captured from Officer Michael Slager's patrol car, did not catch the actual shooting, as it took place out of the camera's range. It does show Slager pulling Scott's Mercedes-Benz over, and Slager and Scott interacting after Slager approaches the car, CNN reports . Scott is shown trying to get out of the vehicle, but is told to stay inside by Slager. A few moments later Scott does leave the car and is seen running away.
The footage also shows a passenger in the car, whose name wasn't stated in a police report obtained by CNN. The report does say that the man was detained and placed in the back of a police car. Ryan Julison, a spokesman for the Scott family, confirmed that a man not related to Scott was in the car with him. Citing the investigation into the shooting, the North Charleston Police Department is not sharing any additional information. —Catherine Garcia
 
Twenty-six-year-old Lance Futch said he would have given more thought to his casual outfit had he known that the "senior White House official" who would be speaking at a supposed "news conference" he was attending would end up being the president himself.
Futch volunteered to attend what ended up being a small roundtable with the president and several Utah lawmakers on behalf of his employer, Vivant Solar, because the White House requested the attendance of a representative from the company with military experience. But he had no idea that he would end up sitting a seat away from the commander in chief in such an intimate environment.
Obama was visiting Utah to promote a program that seeks to use the solar energy industry to benefit military service members and veterans.
"If I had known it was my commander in chief, I definitely would have been wearing my [Air National Guard uniform]," Futch said. —Teresa Mull
Marvin “Lance" Futch - CAD designer and Utah National Guardsman, repping the everyday #solar guy…like a boss. pic.twitter.com/6S4JIRNaee

