Leonard Pitts Jr.: Following 150 years, Dixie still a place apart
On the day soon after the surrender at Appomattox Courthouse, Abraham Lincoln appeared at a second-floor window of the White House. He was acceding to the wishes of citizens who had gathered to serenade their president in this moment of victory. They referred...
On the day soon after the surrender at Appomattox Courthouse, Abraham Lincoln appeared at a second-floor window of the White House. He was acceding to the wishes of citizens who had gathered to serenade their president in this moment of victory. They referred to as for a speech but Lincoln demurred. As an alternative he asked the band to play "Dixie."
The song — a homesick Southerner's lament — had been the de facto anthem of the Confederacy throughout 48 bloody months of civil war, but Lincoln declared now that the South held no monopoly on it. "I have usually thought 'Dixie' one particular of the ideal tunes I have ever heard," he stated. It was almost certainly his way of encouraging a nation that had ripped itself apart along sectional lines to begin knitting itself with each other once again.
Lincoln received an answer of sorts two days later as beaten rebels surrendered their weapons to the Union Army. Union Basic Joshua Chamberlain remarked to Southern counterpart Henry Sensible that maybe now "brave guys may turn out to be very good mates."
Wise's reply was bitter as smoke. "You are mistaken, sir," he stated. "You may forgive us, but we will not be forgiven. There is a rancor in our hearts which you little dream of. We hate you, sir."
Two days immediately after that, April 14, Lincoln received a much more direct response. John Wilkes Booth, famed actor and Southern sympathizer, shot him in the head.
Thus ended arguably the most consequential week in American history. This week, the events of that week move completely 150 years into the previous. They are additional away than they have ever been. And yet, they feel fairly close. If the "hate" Henry Smart spoke of has dissipated in the 15 decades gone by, what has not faded is Dixie's sense of itself as a spot apart and a people today carried out wrong. Compact wonder.
Twice now — at gunpoint in the 1860s, by force of law a century later — the rest of the country has imposed modify on the South, produced it do what it did not want to do, i.e., extend basic human rights to those it had systematically brutalized and oppressed. No other aspect of the nation has ever seasoned that, has ever observed itself so harshly chastised by the rest.
Both times, the act was moral and required. But who can deny, or be shocked, that in forcing the South to do the appropriate point, the rest of the nation fostered an abiding resentment, an enduring "apartness," made the South a region defined by resistance. Name the issue — immigration, race, abortion, education, criminal justice — and law and custom in Dixie have extended stood stubbornly apart from the rest of the nation. But the headline 150 years later is that that apartness no longer confines itself to the boundaries of the Confederacy.
In 2015, for example, we see the old pattern repeating in the fight over marriage equality — most of the nation possessing decided as a moral matter that this has to occur, but a handful of people today resisting as the alter is imposed more than their wishes. But if resistance is fierce in Arkansas, it also is fierce in Indiana. The sense of apartness is much less geographically constrained. Who knows if that is progress?
There is absolutely nothing predestined about America's ultimate capacity to overcome its contradictions. This was correct in 1865 and it is accurate now. It will normally be correct of a men and women bound, not by widespread ancestry but only typical bring about — a presumed fealty to self-evident truths.
America shattered in 1861. Lincoln forced the bloody pieces back together at the cost of over 600,000 lives, a single of them his personal. It under no circumstances did knit itself back together in the way he had hoped — in the way he could have helped it to, had he survived.
Rather, it became this as soon as broken issue exactly where the seams of repair still show. And the query of that consequential week is the question of every single day given that then. Can you make a nation out of that?
So far, so superior.
E-mail  lpitts@miamiherald.com
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
05 April 2015 Sunday 22:30
8 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.
Breaking News in this Category

