EMAIL:
Top News
Recipient's Email:
Your Email:
Comments
  
Friday - 4/10/2015,  4:44am EDT
Defense officials have long  signaled that the third edition of their acquisition improvement program  would center mostly on their  worries about military modernization:
That the U.S. is losing its technological edge, partially due to an  underinvestment in new research and development.
"But now we're talking constantly about the fact that other countries have been  investing very, very heavily in advanced capabilities while we have been  constrained in doing so because of our budget," Bob Work, the deputy secretary  of Defense told reporters Thursday. "Since they can study the way we go to war  and the way we do business, they can apply their resources in a very, very  targeted way. So Better Buying Power 3.0 is primarily about providing dominant  capabilities to try to maintain the technological overmatch that we've always  enjoyed, and to try to extend it if at all possible."
One of the ways adversaries have been "studying" the U.S. approach to military  capability has been through the exfiltration of system designs via cyberspace,  hence the new emphasis on IT security.
Among the directives in the latest edition is for the DoD chief information  officer and the department's acquisition leadership to draft an update to the  department's main acquisition guidebook, DoD Instruction 5000.02, making clear  that program managers must build in plans to ensure cybersecurity throughout an  acquisition program's lifecycle.
"Cybersecurity is a pervasive problem for the department," said Frank Kendall,  the undersecretary of Defense for acquisition, technology and logistics. "It is  a source of risk for our programs from inception all the way through retirement,  and it includes the industrial base that supports us and their databases and  their information. It includes what we hold in government, it includes the  logistics support information, the sustainment information, the design  information, the tactical information. Everything associated with the product is  a potential point of attack. We are under attack in the cyber world, and we've  got to do a better job. All of our managers need to be much more conscious of  this and be much more attentive about best practices that let us stay ahead of  the threat."
Advertisement
Extra precautions needed
The implementing instructions DoD issued Thursday ordered the military services  to catalog especially critical acquisition programs that ought to be receiving  more cybersecurity attention than they're getting.
They also express special concern about the vulnerability of technical data  hosted on the systems of Defense contractors. Despite an update to acquisition  regulations last year which required contractors who hold that sort of data to  take extra precautions and report any potential breaches immediately, the  department continues to see that data as a significant vulnerability, even in  unclassified forms.
"Before that, there were no security requirements on industry," Kendall said.  "We're going to revisit those and see if they're tight enough. We're losing a  lot of time advantage and a lot of financial advantage by having this data be  extracted from us.. We need to think about every interface that a weapons system  has and whether it's accessible through cyber methods or not. We need to think  about all of the systems that weapons system touches or is dependent upon. So  there's a discipline we have to put into our management of this. And we're  finding as we look at weapons systems that were built a long time ago that very  little thought was given to this. We're having to react in a few cases because  of things that were done then."
Thursday's guidance also told the military services, the DoD chief information  officer, the Defense Security Service and the Defense Intelligence Agency to  create a new joint analysis capability which uses intelligence and  counterintelligence information to predict cyber threats to acquisition programs  and to better protect them.
More broadly, Better Buying Power 3.0 envisions a much tighter linkage between  DoD's acquisition system and its intelligence components than exists today. The  guidance told managers to work with the intelligence community throughout their  programs' lifecycles to identify "Critical Intelligence Parameters," measures  that can help DoD determine whether the large systems it's building are still  relevant to the threats it might face.
If one of those parameters is breached, it might suggest that a program needs to  change its design or be cancelled altogether.
"We have to react to the threats," Kendall said. "If the threat is changing, we  can't ignore that. Because threats are now moving at a rate that we've gotten a  little complacent about, frankly, we have to pay closer attention, and we have  to make intelligent adjustments. We're already starting to do follow-on  development for the F-35, and the reason we need to start follow-on development  is that the threats are changing, and we have to respond to them."
Giving VOLT to sharing
As part of the integration push, the acquisition and intelligence directorates  within the Office of the Secretary of Defense are working with the Defense  Intelligence Agency to keep the acquisition system up to date with what other  countries are doing through a consolidated library termed Validated Online  Lifecycle Threat (VOLT). A plan to transition to that joint system is due to DoD  acquisition leaders by August.

