Garcia endorsed by Wilson
Antonio Perez, Chicago Tribune
Mayoral candidate Jesus "Chuy" Garcia, center, receives the support of former mayoral challenger Willie Wilson, right, on Thursday, March 12, 2015.
Mayoral candidate Jesus "Chuy" Garcia, center, receives the support of former mayoral challenger Willie Wilson, right, on Thursday, March 12, 2015. (Antonio Perez, Chicago Tribune)
Instead of shaking hands with potential voters outside rail stations Tuesday morning, former mayoral candidate Willie Wilson said he visited Springfield to meet people he hopes will teach him more about the inner workings of government.
"I'm going to be staying in politics for the rest of my life so I'm trying to get acquainted with people," Wilson said as he drove from Springfield to Chicago Tuesday. "I'd like to know how politicians are thinking and why they do what they do."
No mayoral candidate won the majority of votes in the Feb. 24 general election. Community activist William "Dock" Walls earned nearly 3 percent of the vote while West Side Ald. Bob Fioretti (2nd) snagged 7 percent of the vote. About 34 percent of the 1.4 million registered voters cast ballots in the February election, officials said.
Two of the three former mayoral candidates told RedEye Tuesday said that even though they are no longer in the race, they have been engaging voters and they haven't ruled out future runs.
Walls, a community activist who has run for other offices, said he spent Tuesday morning visiting polling places on the West and South sides. He said he voted but would not say who he voted for. He has not announced support publicly for Garcia or Emanuel.
Looking back on his campaign, Walls said the outcome would have been different if he had more money in his campaign chest. Emanuel raised $15 million leading up to the February election, dwarfing his competitors.
"Had we had the money we would have won without a run-off," Walls said.
Walls said he doesn't have plans to attend any election parties Tuesday night and doesn't have any election predictions. He is, however, not ruling out a future run.
"As I have gotten around to polling places, I've had a lot of people say they hope I would consider to run again but it would take a lot of money to make decide to run again," Walls said.
Wilson, too, is considering his options. He said he evaluating the candidate resumes for upcoming races, including for Congress and U.S. Senate, to see "what their agendas are and decide, 'Do I want to get involved with these particular races or not?'"
Wilson, who is publicly supporting Garcia, said he voted early for Garcia. He is unsure whether he will be be attending Garcia's election night party at the University of Illinois-Chicago Forum Tuesday night.
Wilson said he feels like he contributed to the need for a run-off election.
"I raised a lot of issues in this mayoral campaign that otherwise wouldn't have been on the table," Wilson said.
Fioretti, who was recently hospitalized with flu-like symptoms, did not respond to requests for comment from RedEye. He has publicly thrown his support to Emanuel despite vocally opposing him in the past. On Tuesday, he was photographed with Emanuel at Manny's Deli, a popular hangout for politicos, on the West Side.

