Campaign flyer targets Oak Brook Islamic organization
A recent campaign flyer sent to Oak Brook residents and corporations by village president candidate Natalie Cappetta, has resulted in a public security message to the village from Police Chief James Kruger and some harsh words from the executive director...
A recent campaign flyer sent to Oak Brook residents and corporations by village president candidate Natalie Cappetta, has resulted in a public security message to the village from Police Chief James Kruger and some harsh words from the executive director of North American Islamic Trust.
Police say no radical Muslim groups in Oak Brook, regardless of Television report  Chuck Fieldman  Oak Brook Police Chief James Kruger is assuring the neighborhood there are no nearby extremist Islamic groups, following a Television report that had Oak Brook listed on a map amongst 20 municipalities in the United States as a city with a "radical Muslim organization."  Oak Brook Police Chief James Kruger is assuring the community there are no local extremist Islamic groups, following a Television report that had Oak Brook listed on a map amongst 20 municipalities in the United States as a city with a "radical Muslim organization." ( Chuck Fieldman )
The flyer disputes earlier claims by Kruger that North American Islamic Trust, 721 Enterprise Drive, has no ties with Islamic extremist groups. In addition, the flyer disputes the group's tax exempt status and zoning of the home on which its offices are positioned.
&quotThey stated they are a church," said Fred Cappetta, Natalie's father, an lawyer who vetted the flyer before it was sent out. &quotIf they are a church, the zoning doesn't allow for them to be exactly where they are at."
Oak Brook Village Manager Rick Ginex mentioned the IRS and DuPage County granted any tax-exempt status for North American Islamic Trust.
&#108Related Oak Brook CrimePolice blotter: Oak Brook home scene of front-door breakSee all related8
&quotIt's not a village concern," Ginex mentioned. &quotAll we can go by is what the IRS and county assess."
The flyer from Oak Brook For Natalie Cappetta states that village officials are concealing the truth and need to &quotenforce our zoning codes, protect our neighborhood from all threats, foreign and domestic, and ensure all entities in our community spend their fair share of house taxes."
Mujeeb Cheema, executive director of North American Islamic Trust, known as the assertions in the campaign flyer, &quota smear campaign."
&quotIt's practically nothing but a desperate try by a candidate in an try to instill fear in the community," he mentioned.
Cheema confirmed, as Cappetta claims in the flyer, that worship services to take spot at North American Islamic Trust.
&quotWe give 5 everyday prayers on a restricted basis," Cheema stated. &quotNot 100 % of the developing is exempt from taxes a tiny part is rented out, and the county under no circumstances ruled on the mandate of the IRS."
cComments                                 Got anything to say? Start out the conversation and be the first to comment.                    Add a comment
Kruger's public security message, which is posted on the village web page, http://www.oak-brook.org seeks to assure residents and businesses in the village that there is no want for concern.
Kruger mentioned the very same factor following a mid-January tv report that listed Oak Brook amongst 20 municipalities as obtaining a &quotradical Muslim organization."
Kruger stated he contacted the FBI to get data about North American Islamic Trust and to assess irrespective of whether there was any reason for concern in the neighborhood.
&quotI was reassured that NAIT is a reputable organization and that there is no threat to the neighborhood," Kruger wrote in his public safety message.
&quotThey additional advised that there is no investigative hyperlink between NAIT and the US Muslim Brotherhood. The FBI additional related that the open supply information and facts on the internet was not credible and that the civil rights of NAIT really should be protected as would any other legal entity in our community."
Kruger mentioned he visited the North American Islamic Trust workplace in March and spoke with Cheema.
&quotI can reassure the neighborhood that there is no threat to our neighborhood and that NAIT is a legitimate nonprofit religious organization as filed with the IRS and the Illinois Department of Revenue," Kruger wrote.
cfieldman@pioneerlocal.com
Copyright © 2015, Chicago Tribune
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

