Bill to curb testing in Florida schools now headed to governor's desk
The Florida House today passed  a bill that aims to curtail testing in public schools, adopting the Senate's version and immediately sending it to Gov. Rick Scott for approval.
The sweeping bill eliminates some exams, cuts how much test score data counts in teacher evaluations and limits the time students can spend taking exams during a school year.
The bill (HB 7069) also requires that an independent panel review results from this year's administration of the Florida Standards Assessment -- the state's new test -- before the results are used to grade schools A-to-F or to help evaluate teachers. Some critics had questioned whether the new FSA (which replaced most of the Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test, or FCAT) was a valid measure of student achievement.
"There's some good things on," said Rep. Marlene O'Toole, R-Lady Lake, chairman of the House's education committee, of the bill she urged her House colleagues to pass.
They did, 105 to 6.
The bill limits testing to 45 hours -- out of 900 -- a school year, with some exceptions, and it scraps an 11th grade language arts test Scott canceled this year by executive order. It also does away with a requirement for final exams in all courses, a demand introduced by the state's 2011 teacher merit-pay law.
But it leaves intact the state's main testing program -- standardized exams in language arts and math taken by students in elementary thorugh high school.
The measure now heads to Scott, who in February declared "we have too much testing" and urged the Florida Legislature to fix things.
It was quickly cheered by former Gov. Jeb Bush's education foundation, which has been championing "fewer better tests."
But some lawmakers said the bill did not go far enough, a position echoed Wednesday by the Florida Education Association, the state's teacher union.
The union said the bill, with a requirement for more computer-based testing and most state-required testing left in place wouldn't change much.
"We need to embrace a testing solution that cuts the number of state-required tests, gets the data in the hands of teachers and administrators quicker and doesn’t insist on using computers, which can throw an entire school into a chaotic situation," the union said.
"I’m going to vote for the bill but clearly more work needs to be done," said Rep. Dwight Dudley, D-St. Petersburg.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

