Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
N.J. Politics Roundup: Christie's job rating hits record low; governor's advisers touting comeback
Gov. Christie's 133rd Town Hall Meeting In Kenilworth
Gov. Chris Christie speaks at a town hall forum earlier this year. (Aristide Economopoulos | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)
N.J. POLITICS ROUNDUP
A collection of political news from the Statehouse and around New Jersey
TRENTON — A new Rutgers-Eagleton poll shows 54 percent of New Jersey's registered voters disapprove of the job Gov. Chris Christie is doing — his lowest approval rating yet.
Meanwhile, a longtime Christie ally in the Latino community is accusing the governor of pandering to the "extreme right of the Republican Party."
A CHRISTIE COMEBACK?
A new report says advisers are plotting a "Christie comeback" as he prepares for a potential 2016 presidential campaign.
Meanwhile, Christie called Republican state leaders to the governor's mansion Thursday and told them to stick together.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DECISION
A state appeals court blocked Christie's attempt to help balance the state budget by seizing trust funds that towns use to build homes for low- and moderate-income residents.
NATIONAL GUARD INVESTIGATIONS
The head of the New Jersey National Guard confirmed there are multiple investigations into complaints by senior officers of favoritism and racial discrimination in the top ranks, but said he was confident those claims would be found to be baseless.
FEDERAL GAS TAX PROPOSAL
U.S. Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-8th Dist.) said he will introduce a bill that would immediately peg the federal gasoline tax to inflation.
POLL: FEDERAL BUDGET CUTS
Should Medicare, food stamps, and Pell Grants be cut to balance the federal budget ? Vote in the informal, unscientific poll at right.
THE AUDITOR: PAC AIDING GUADAGNO FOR GOVERNOR?
A look at whether a new political action committee could help Lt. Gov. Kim Guadagno in a potential 2017 gubernatorial run.
IN OTHER NEWS ...
• Nearly 3,800 New Jersey residents are being asked to pay back property tax discounts they received by claiming they occupied multiple-family properties while living in only one unit, according to a state comptroller's report.
• Here is a look at the top 5 Christie-related searches on Google.
• The state Division of Consumer Affairs unveiled a newly redesigned website making it easier for New Jerseyans to fight back against fraudsters.
• Spectra Colors Corp. of Kearny was one of 50 companies cited by in a report by the U.S. Trade Representative and the Commerce Department as part of the Obama administration's effort to convince Congress to provide new authority to negotiate trade agreements.
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for your subscription!
To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Political Viewpoints
© 2015 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

