Tigers right-hander Justin Verlander took what might be the final step before a rehab assignment Tuesday afternoon at Oakland’s O.co Coliseum, throwing four innings of simulated action without experiencing any discomfort in his right triceps.
According to beat writer Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press, the veteran allowed zero runs on three hits and one walk. He struck out eight, but it should be noted that Verlander was facing a group of teammates and it was a pretty loose environment. He even simulated the national anthem before he began pitching, holding his cap next to his heart in front of the mound for a minute.
Verlander has been out all season with a right triceps strain, but he’s now finally trending in the right direction. If he can avoid further setbacks, the 32-year-old should be ready to make his 2015 debut in mid-to-late June.
Jaime Garcia won for the first time in nearly a year.
Leave Comment
You must be logged in to leave a comment. Not a member? Register now!
Top Posts
Popular topics


Buzzing on Yahoo Sports:
Done
Detroit Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander took a big step toward making his 2015 debut Tuesday. The 32-year-old has been sidelined all season due to a triceps injury, but looked dominant during a simulated game Tuesday.
Don't believe us? Take it from one of his teammates, then.
Vers final line for sim game...4.1 ip 3 hits (all 1bs) 1 BB 9ks 0 runs...I don't use the term domination lightly and he DOMINATED!!!
View photo
(AP Photo)
The team's 4.15 ERA from their starters ranks 19th, though their 3.79 FIP rates ninth, suggesting improvement is possible. 
Still, it's not as if there are a lot of proven assets in the rotation. David Price is clearly an ace, but the club is relying on both Alfredo Simon and Shane Greene to remain solid. Results have been mixed thus far. Greene has experienced extreme highs and lows over his starts, while Simon has been incredibly solid. Whether they can continue to excel will be a question.
Anibal Sanchez has struggled all season, and doesn't have the best track record with health. While his peripherals suggest some bounce back, his struggles have still been concerning. Kyle Lobstein's strikeout rate is nearly the same as his walk rate, and that's never a fun line to tread. Even if he can't return to his prime, Verlander is still a clear upgrade over Lobstein. 
While it's unclear when Verlander will make his first major-league start, he could begin a rehab assignment as soon as Monday. That depends on how Verlander feels Wednesday, according to Rick Eymer of MLB.com.
With the Kansas City Royals looking like contenders after their surprise run last season, this is the first time in a while the Tigers will be pushed for the division crown. Getting Verlander back could be the difference in that race, particularly if the Justin of old is able to return.
More MLB coverage from Yahoo Sports:
- - - - - - -
Chris Cwik is a writer for Big League Stew on Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at christophercwik@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter! Follow @Chris_Cwik
Sports & Recreation

