Tigers right-hander Justin Verlander took what might be the final step before a rehab assignment Tuesday afternoon at Oakland’s O.co Coliseum, throwing four innings of simulated action without experiencing any discomfort in his right triceps.
According to beat writer Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press, the veteran allowed zero runs on three hits and one walk. He struck out eight, but it should be noted that Verlander was facing a group of teammates and it was a pretty loose environment. He even simulated the national anthem before he began pitching, holding his cap next to his heart in front of the mound for a minute.
Verlander has been out all season with a right triceps strain, but he’s now finally trending in the right direction. If he can avoid further setbacks, the 32-year-old should be ready to make his 2015 debut in mid-to-late June.
Jaime Garcia won for the first time in nearly a year.
Leave Comment
You must be logged in to leave a comment. Not a member? Register now!
Top Posts
Popular topics


David Price live-tweets Tigers teammate Justin Verlander’s successful simulated game
Detroit Tigers starting pitcher Justin Verlander, right, is seen in the dugout during the seventh inning of a baseball game against the Minnesota Twins, Thursday, April 9, 2015, in Detroit. CARLOS OSORIO — The Associated Press file photo
By Matthew B. Mowery, matt.mowery@oakpress.com , @matthewbmowery on Twitter
Posted:
Every step along the way, David Price has been watching over Justin Verlander’s rehabilitation, imparting his wisdom from previously dealing with the same sort of triceps strain.
Price was there Tuesday, too — but his words of wisdom were saved for Twitter, as he live-tweeted Verlander’s simulated game at O.co Coliseum for those who couldn’t watch it.
“Sim game went really well!! Felt great! But the best part about it ... @DavidPrice14 live-tweeting it. Hahaha!!!” Verlander posted on Twitter after he was done throwing 70 pitches over 4 1/3 innings against teammates Dixon Machado, Hernan Perez, Bryan Holaday and Tyler Collins.
“Big Ver back on the bump!!! 3 ip 2 hits 0 runs 1BB 6ks...worked out of a 1st and 3rd 1 out jam w K and F8,” Price tweeted, along with a photo .
Advertisement
“Vers final line for sim game...4.1 ip 3 hits (all 1bs) 1 BB 9ks 0 runs...I don’t use the term domination lightly and he DOMINATED!!!” Price tweeted at the end of the session .
“Sometimes you have to tip your cap,” tweeted Holaday .
Verlander’s next step — as long as he feels OK Wednesday morning — will be a rehabilitation start (or two) as soon as next week, although the Tigers haven’t made any announcements about when or where.

