Tigers right-hander Justin Verlander took what might be the final step before a rehab assignment Tuesday afternoon at Oakland’s O.co Coliseum, throwing four innings of simulated action without experiencing any discomfort in his right triceps.
According to beat writer Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press, the veteran allowed zero runs on three hits and one walk. He struck out eight, but it should be noted that Verlander was facing a group of teammates and it was a pretty loose environment. He even simulated the national anthem before he began pitching, holding his cap next to his heart in front of the mound for a minute.
Verlander has been out all season with a right triceps strain, but he’s now finally trending in the right direction. If he can avoid further setbacks, the 32-year-old should be ready to make his 2015 debut in mid-to-late June.
Jaime Garcia won for the first time in nearly a year.
Leave Comment
You must be logged in to leave a comment. Not a member? Register now!
Top Posts
Popular topics


Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Verlander's simulated game a success; rehab start next?
Verlander threw 70 pitches over 4 1/3 innings and allowed two hits and one walk while striking out teammates eight times.
Post to Facebook
Verlander's simulated game a success; rehab start next? Verlander threw 70 pitches over 4 1/3 innings and allowed two hits and one walk while striking out teammates eight times. Check out this story on Freep.com: http://on.freep.com/1HvedYn
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
3
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Verlander's simulated game a success; rehab start next?
By Anthony Fenech, Detroit Free Press 9:41 p.m. EDT May 26, 2015
The Tigers pitcher believes he won't feel anything abnormal after throwing pitches to hitters Tuesday in Oakland, Calif. Video by Anthony Fenech/DFP
Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander
OAKLAND, Calif.  – It was simulated, from the national anthem to the wave to Justin Verlander trying to talk his way into another inning.
And it was a success, Verlander's first simulated game in over a month, and it could set up his first minor-league rehabilitation start.
"It went really well," the Tigers' right-hander said. "Obviously first and foremost, the most important thing was I felt really good. Stuff was good — it got better as it went along — so all-in-all, I was very pleased."
Verlander threw 70 pitches over 4 1/3 innings. He faced Bryan Holaday, Tyler Collins, Hernan Perez and rookie Dixon Machado and his pitching line looked like this: Two hits, one walk, eight strikeouts.
Manager Brad Ausmus said the finish on his fastball and the break on his breaking pitches is what stood out.
The true test will come with how he feels this morning.
"I'm very optimistic I'm going to feel great tomorrow, just judging on going through the process before and how I felt throwing and how I responded to that," Verlander said. "Today is completely different than it was then so I don't anticipate anything besides normal soreness."
Verlander's second simulated game of the season — his first, in Pittsburgh during the second week of the season, was cut short — garnered more fanfare inside the Tigers' clubhouse.
Many Tigers watched from the sidelines, including Tuesday night's starter David Price, who was live-tweeting the event to the masses. Bullpen coach Mick Billmeyer was one of a few that attempted to start the wave and when Machado led off the second inning with a single, they pulled the ball from play.
"It was a lot of fun," Verlander said. "We treated it about as real as we can. The guys in the stands who tried to get the wave going — the fans weren't very receptive to it.
"It was great. Those guys cheering me, cheering Machado for the first hit, it was great."
Verlander threw all his pitches and reported no hesitancy in throwing breaking balls, specifically his curveball. He mentioned a change in throwing his slider, tweaking the release point in his time off and called it more of a "true slider."
After four innings, Verlander tried to get another inning but Ausmus and Tigers pitching coach Jeff Jones settled on a few more pitches, and he finished the outing by striking out Perez swinging.
"I tried to lobby for one more inning so maybe I could lobby not to make a rehab start but they weren't having it," Verlander said.
He could throw 80-85 pitches in a potential rehab start, he guessed, and, "I would think if I can throw 95-100, I would be ready to go."
Contact Anthony Fenech: afenech@freepress.com . Follow him on Twitter @anthonyfenech .
Join us for a live blog of the Tigers-A's game Wednesday afternoon at freep.com/sports. Also check out our latest Tigers podcast at freep.com/tigerspodcast or on iTunes. And download our free Tigers Xtra app on Apple and Android !
Read or Share this story: http://on.freep.com/1HvedYn
TOP VIDEOS

