What does Hillary Clinton stand for? Policy agenda remains mystery in lead-up to campaign launch
Many questions surround the former secretary of state’s course for her presidential campaign despite her 30 years of being a public figure. The biggest one: just what kind of president does Clinton want to be?
Hillary Clinton, quite possibly pondering her presidential policy message. Photograph: Win McNamee/Getty Images
Last modified on Friday 10 April 2015 17.11 BST
As Hillary Clinton prepares to end months of speculation on Sunday by confirming she is once again running for president , a new mystery is emerging: just what kind of president does she want to be?
To those on the left, the fear is that the former secretary of state and New York senator may prove overly hawkish on foreign policy and too moderate at home to challenge America’s dominant financial interests or problems of social inequality.
“Well, I think we have to see ... what she says she wants to run on,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren on Thursday, when asked to endorse Clinton’s political philosophy in an interview with CBS . “I think that’s really the interesting question at this point.”
Meanwhile, opponents on the right believe Clinton’s moderate guise is a ruse designed to hide a significantly more interventionist agenda than her husband Bill pursued when he was in office.
“As the Hillary machine revs up and begins its trundle towards Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Nevada and beyond, expect to read more about the differences between the two Clintons,” warned former Republican communications adviser Liz Mair .
Other Republican critics have relentlessly pursued Clinton’s record over the September 2012 Benghazi terrorist attack, as a way to show she is not the veteran foreign policy hawk feared by liberals, but weak and ill-prepared to serve as commander-in-chief.
“Just what does Hillary stand for?” asked the Economist in a weekend cover story that summed up the confused mood.
For a politician who has been a public figure more than 30 years, spent months running for the White House only eight years ago and published more than 1,100 pages of autobiography over two volumes, there ought to be plenty of evidence to help pundits decide. But Clinton has left surprisingly few clues along the trail.
‘Power candidate’ or complex policy wonk?
In the eight years she served as a US senator for New York, Clinton sponsored or amended 711 bills, according to a congressional search . But scouring her legislative record for evidence of policy leads down many empty roads.
One such road is US route 20A, a stretch of tarmac outside Buffalo that was renamed the Timothy J Russert highway by Clinton after the journalist’s death in 2008 . The host of NBC’s political talk show Meet the Press was dubbed the alternative “mayor of Washington” by DC power chronicler Mark Leibovich ; Senator Clinton’s legislative homage is one of many acts from that period that reinforce her own credentials as a beltway insider above all else.
Similarly, memos written by close advisers during her last, failed run for office seem to confirm the impression of a political chameleon, driven by expediency rather than ideology.
“HRC is the power candidate,” wrote Mark Penn in one leaked strategy document . “Unlike most of the other candidates HRC has never told anyone what she would do as president,” he added, proudly.
But talking to those who worked most closely alongside her reveals a more nuanced message.
“I don’t think Hillary’s views and policies are particularly ill-defined, compared to other candidates,” said Paul Starr, a professor at Princeton who worked as Bill Clinton’s healthcare adviser.
Starr has previously criticised the “ myth ” that Hillary was the driving force in healthcare policy in the Clinton White House, but he also has a more sympathetic view of her policy credentials since then, arguing that it is pretty clear how she would differ from the Republican alternatives in 2016.
“Given the polarisation of the two parties today, it’s not hard to identify where a Democratic candidate stands on any of the major issues,” he told the Guardian.
Starr also pointed out that the social opportunity agenda supported by Senator Warren and potential liberal opponents such as the former Maryland governor Martin O’Malley is also espoused by Obama and supported by Clinton.
“Look at how quickly [Clinton] endorsed the initiatives that Obama announced in his State of the Union – which I think probably defined the main issues for most Democrats running in 2016,” he said.
“The differences between Clinton and Obama in 2008 were very small. The differences between Clinton and who? O’Malley? ... will be even smaller.”
Hope and change no more
Much of Clinton’s reputation as a hawk dates from her support for George W Bush’s war on Iraq, but her 956,000 miles of travel to 112 countries as secretary of state also suggest a pragmatist closer to the current administration’s view of the world than a neocon firebrand.
Rewatching the debates between Clinton and Obama in the 2008 primary campaign does reinforce the rhetorical gap between them, however. Where Obama was all about hope and change, Hillary presented a cautious message of what she might achieve as president.
“We might not be able to do all of that at once,” she said, while reeling off a set of vanilla policy objectives by Democratic standards: healthcare reform, energy independence, new jobs, education standards and pulling troops (carefully) out of Iraq.
The website HillaryClinton.com , which contained these previous policy pledges, has long since been scoured clean, ready for the next fight. But cached versions can still be found online that confirm this meticulous, if modest, approach to domestic policy.
Some areas, such as healthcare reform, have been overtaken by what Obama has done, but others including carefully worked-out policy proposals on college affordability , point to areas the president has only slowly begun to tackle.
The many speeches given by Clinton in recent months and policy debates such as a recent discussion on urban development at the Center for American Progress also suggest a wonkier side of her character.
For supporters who believe Clinton’s biggest achievement will be smashing what she once called “that highest, hardest glass ceiling ”, it will come as no as surprise to see traits that won admiration for her husband ignored in favour of cruder stereotypes.
But starting Sunday, as the next incarnation of Clinton’s website begins filling up with new material, voters and pundits from all sides of the political spectrum will be scrutinising the language more closely than ever, to see exactly where she sits.
This discussion is closed for comments.
We’re doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account ( why? )
Order by

