Recent
Recent
RECENT
Recent
Recent
MORE
MORE
RECENT
Saved
× Close Ad
St. Louis Blues head coach Ken Hitchcock (left) listens to a question along side general manager Doug Armstrong during a news conference on Tuesday, May 26, 2015, at Scottrade Center. The Blues will retain Ken Hitchcock as their coach for the 2015-16 season, as the sides agreed to a one-year contract. Photo by Laurie Skrivan | lskrivan@post-dispatch.com
MORE ONLINE
Gordo's Zone: A dynamic start is a must for a coach on a short leash.
Blues Talk: How will the return of Hitchcock sit with the fan base?
Related Links
If there was any uncertainty that Ken Hitchcock was still a good fit for the Blues, any concern that the team’s pursuit of Mike Babcock could create turmoil in the locker room, or any worry that bringing a coach back on a one-year contract would be an issue, it wasn’t heard Tuesday afternoon.
In a 30-minute-plus news conference announcing that Hitchcock will be returning for the 2015-16 season, everyone involved made it seem as though it was the right move.
Blues general manager Doug Armstrong said that his findings after a 28-day evaluation process led him to this decision, Hitchcock said he had some “unfinished business,” and despite rumblings of a disconnect in the locker room, captain David Backes said that Tuesday’s news made sense from the players’ perspective.
If all this is true, what took so long?
Armstrong spent part of the time attending the IIHF World Championships in the Czech Republic, where it’s believed he spoke with Babcock. He then returned to St. Louis, where he met with Hitchcock three times, including Tuesday morning, before making the announcement official.
“There wasn’t a checklist of things,” Armstrong said. “We just sat down and we talked. We talked about the season, we talked about the playoffs, we talked about personnel. One of the things, I just had to make sure that the passion level that’s going to be necessary in November, December, January, February — the dog days of the season — that Ken still had that passion.
“I didn’t want him to come back and feel that he was coming back out of anger and disappointment. I wanted him to come back out of excitement and energy. When we talked, I felt that. I felt that talking to him and I felt that talking to members of his staff that there’s a real excitement in getting back to work here.”
Armstrong also announced Wednesday that Hitchcock’s entire coaching staff — associate head coach Brad Shaw and assistants Kirk Muller, Ray Bennett and Jim Corsi and video coach Sean Ferrell — would be back next season.
That was something that Hitchcock, while discussing his return for a fifth season, said he wanted to see happen.
“I’m really proud to be able to coach this hockey club again and I’m really proud the staff is back together,” Hitchcock said. “I wanted to be back here badly. The emotion, when the series was first over, was get me away from here. Then as it started to move on, I really wanted to come back and finish the job here. It’s really unfinished business for me.
“There was a time where you’re not really sure as the process is moving along. Then it got overridden by the passion to coach and teach. Doug takes care of the franchise in a really strong way. I was comfortable he was going to do what was right for the organization short- and long-term. That’s his job and I was comfortable with his decision.”
According to league sources, Armstrong’s first choice, however, was not Hitchcock. He received permission from Detroit to speak with Babcock, who turned down the club’s overtures before signing an eight-year, $50 million deal with Toronto.
Armstrong has said recently that he will not disclose whether he spoke with Babcock or any other potential candidates. On Wednesday, though, he was speaking as if it never happened.
“When you look over the season, the number of things you read, if one-tenth of that ever came true in the NHL, I’d be shocked,” he said. “I think it’s the media’s job responsibility to sometime report the facts and sometimes make stuff up because it’s good story.”
True or not, Hitchcock heard it.
“You can’t help but not do that,” Hitchcock said. “I don’t care. The reason I don’t care is that we have a relationship where we can tell each other pretty much anything, and there’s no consequences. I know one thing: He keeps me informed on everything. Some of it I don’t want to hear sometimes, but it’s information that’s necessary. And to me, the verbal information that I get Doug to tell me overrides everything else. The other stuff is irrelevant to me. It’s the relationship you have with the people that you work with and for, and that’s all that matters.”
Asked if he felt the reports would impact Hitchcock’s leadership ability in the Blues’ locker room, Armstrong replied: “Not really.”
Backes said he didn’t foresee issues either.
“For the management and the ownership not to pursue all options — whether a job was offered or they wanted to talk and see if there’s a different fit there with a different coach — I think they’d be amiss not doing their due diligence,” Backes said. “It’s a business. In the end, they came back and they said that Hitch is their guy and he’s got a one-year deal to prove that he can get a job done.”
Speaking of that, the fact that it’s a only a one-year extension is another concern, but apparently only outside the organization.
“I don’t want to cheat them,” Hitchcock, 63, said. “I don’t want to be signing on for a bunch of years that I know I can’t answer the bell for. So for me, this is a perfect scenario. What’s good for me continuing to coach is stay short term, so that I have the energy.”
Armstrong pointed out that in 2013-14, Hitchcock was coaching in the final year of his contract. In 2014-15, he played out his one-year option. Next year will be the same situation.
“The reality is, this is Ken’s third one-year deal,” Armstrong said. “So, this isn’t something new for Ken and I. This is something that we’re comfortable with.”
Armstrong said he was dumbfounded by the narrative that a one-year contract structure created lame-duck status for Hitchcock and the possibility that players would not compete for a coach who doesn’t have future security.
“The thought process that someone works with less passion and energy because someone is on a one-year deal, I’ve never really understood that or comprehended that,” Armstrong said. “I would be shocked if a player wants to flush a year of his career away because the coach is on a one-year deal. If you just look at it rationally, it makes no sense to worry about the length of someone’s contract because their own careers are at stake now also.”
Said Backes: “I don’t know what would be the benefits of thinking in those terms. Whether he’s got a one-year deal or a five-year deal, he’s the coach, we’re the players, we’ve got to perform on the ice.”
Backes didn’t deny Tuesday that there have been rifts, but he said it’s part of the business.
“I’ve got no issues with (Hitchcock),” Backes said. “Does he ride guys hard and has he been on my case at times, where it’s made me angry? Yes. But he does it in the light of trying to make our team better, trying to make each individual player better.
“I think for the first time being here, there has been a few comments to the paper that may have (shown) some disagreements with whatever was going on. But you look at any work place, if there’s not disagreements about what’s going on, you’re living in Pleasantville, I think.”
Armstong added: “Show me a well-liked coach, and I’ll show you a losing coach in most organizations.”
The Blues believe they’ve still got the right coach, and the coach believes he’s still with the right organization.
“I want to coach to win and I couldn’t find a better spot than to show up right here and coach this hockey club,” Hitchcock said. “This is a really good team trying to become a great team. I think I have the tools and the expertise to help them along the way.
“Doug and I have been together for a very long period of time. We’ve got great communication and the ability to get this team back to the playoffs and back into that hunt again is first and foremost in both of our minds.”
Jeremy Rutherford
jrutherford@post-dispatch.com
Copyright 2015 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with www.stltoday.com account:
Username & Password Required!

