A Philadelphia rally in 2013. (Matt Slocum/AP)
A bill allowing private adoption and foster-care agencies to turn away gay couples on moral or religious grounds passed the Florida House Thursday. The vote follows a series of high-profile religious-freedom bills in other states that drew nationwide criticism from those who viewed them as discriminatory.
Under the Florida measure, which creates a “conscience clause,” private institutions would not be considered as discriminating against clients if doing so would “violate agency’s written religious or moral convictions or policies,” the bill reads .
“You may disagree with their beliefs. You may even think that they’re crazy,” said Republican State Rep. Scott Plakon, the Tampa Bay Times reported . “But these are their closely held beliefs.”
Social conservatives had pushed the bill through after the state House repealed Florida’s gay adoption ban in March — a law ruled unconstitutional in 2010 . Republican State Rep. Jason Brodeur said the newly passed adoption bill isn’t discriminatory, as same-sex couples could turn to other agencies.
Florida has 82 private adoption agencies, many of which are run by churches, Bay News 9 reported .
“If you are thinking about adopting a child, go do it. Gay, heterosexual — go do it,” Brodeur said, AP reported . “If there is one thing that I hate, it’s the thought of intolerance and selfishness getting in the way of uniting one of those children with a forever family.”
But opponents said the measure was an example of state-sponsored discrimination, much like Jim Crow laws against blacks, and cited that some of these private agencies receive public funding. “If you’re open to the public, you’re open to the public,” said Democratic State Rep. David Richardson, the Orlando Sentinel reported . “If the lunch counter’s open, it’s open for everyone.”
The Florida bill faces a rocky future, especially since similar language was rejected by the Florida Senate on Wednesday.
In recent years, religious organizations have pushed back against laws related to same-sex couples who want to adopt. In Illinois, Catholic Charities waged a legal battle before finally deciding in 2011 to close most of its state affiliates after 40 years of service. Illinois agencies can’t receive state money if they turn away gay couples as possible adoptive parents.
Elahe Izadi is a general assignment national reporter for The Washington Post.
Continue reading 10 minutes left
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge
Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment.
All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
You might also like:
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
Another Related Newsletter (M-W-F)
Not Now
Incorrect email

