UNCHANGED0.00%
All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by Profile Data
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.
Sat Apr 04 09:05:54 CAT 2015
New York Times | 2015-04-04 08:47:11.0
US President Barack Obama delivers remarks on clean energy after a tour of a solar power array at Hill Air Force Base, Utah April 3, 2015. Obama announced a Department of Energy initiative Friday with the goal of training 75,000 workers, especially targeting veterans, to enter the solar energy workforce by the year 2020.
Image by: JONATHAN ERNST / REUTERS
President Barack Obama ventured into Red America on Thursday and Friday to sell his economic agenda to small but polite audiences, and along the way he tried to demonstrate that both he and his ideas could travel anywhere in the country, even to the parts where he is deeply unpopular.
Save & Share
He did not exactly bowl them over in Utah, or even in Kentucky. But he came anyway, and maybe that was the point.
It would be hard for him to find a place where he is less popular than in Utah, the tourist-friendly mecca for skiers, hikers, Mormons and Republicans. The president received just 25 percent of the vote here in 2012, his lowest showing in any state, in a 50-point loss to his opponent, Mitt Romney, who now makes his home in Utah.
For obvious reasons, then, Obama had never made it to Utah since taking office, but when he landed Thursday night, it became the 49th state he has visited as president. (South Dakota is the lone standout.) While relegated to campaign in more Democrat-friendly states in the months before the fall midterm elections, Obama lately has made a point of visiting Republican-leaning states like Alabama, Idaho, Kansas, South Carolina and, in the past two days, Kentucky and Utah.
David Simas, the president’s director of political strategy and outreach, said the visits build off key themes in recent speeches: “That there’s much more that unites us as Americans than divides us.”
He added, “When you step out of Washington, there’s a bipartisan consensus around so many issues, including clean energy, skills training, community college and other topics.”
Indeed, this week Obama stuck to less polarizing themes like job training. In Louisville on Thursday, he visited a data technology firm called Indatus to highlight his efforts to teach technology skills. Here at this air base north of Salt Lake City on Friday, he announced a new goal of training 75,000 workers for the solar energy industry by 2020, many of them military veterans.
These are not high-profile events. He arrived three hours late in Louisville because of the announcement of a preliminary nuclear agreement with Iran and then gave an 11-minute speech to just a few dozen people. He then flew to Utah for a roundtable discussion and gave an eight-minute speech to a similarly small crowd against the backdrop of an array of solar panels and the state’s majestic snow-topped mountains.
But Obama also used the occasion to meet with leaders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as the Mormon church is known, and Utah’s Republican governor, Gary Herbert.
In Kentucky, home of his primary congressional antagonist, Sen. Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, Obama accused the opposition of wanting to cut federal funding for job training. That irritated McConnell’s team, which responded by saying that Republicans had made no such proposal and that Obama was simply extrapolating what would have to be cut under broader spending ceilings that he too once agreed to.
Either way, McConnell’s staff said the president’s visit seemed unnecessarily antagonistic.
“Weird that on the eve of his attempt to sell Congress on his Iran caper that he would be in GOP states attacking Republicans,” said Don Stewart, the senator’s spokesman. “And why not visit the states of Democrats who oppose his trade agenda to encourage them? Really odd strategy.”
These visits, however, pay off in their own way. The front page of The Courier-Journal in Louisville after his visit featured a large banner headline: “Essentially America.” It mistook something he had said in his speech about skills training being “essential to America,” but for a president who has struggled to quash doubts about his own birthplace, it had a special resonance.
SHARE YOUR OPINION
If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article, please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.
1
1
4
© 2014 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.

