By Cory Gluck | BABW News | April 09, 2015
On April 9, Oklahoma state Senate unanimously passed a bill 41-0 to allow execution by nitrogen. This would be a first in America, according to United Press International Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin must sign the The bill before it becomes a law. Nitrogen gas would become the preferred method of execution in the state in the […]
On April 9, Oklahoma state Senate unanimously passed a bill 41-0 to allow execution by nitrogen. This would be a first in America, according to United Press International
Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin must sign the The bill before it becomes a law. Nitrogen gas would become the preferred method of execution in the state in the event death by lethal injection is deemed to be unconstitutional, or is unavailable.
In 2011 the European Union prohibited the sale  to US of pentobarbital and other drugs used in execution or torture. pentobarbital has been the key ingredient for lethal injections.
This has forced states to figure out new suppliers and try new combinations.
Oklahoma was at the center of a firestorm after the botched execution of Clayton Lockett. He was scheduled to be executed on April 29, 2014.
An untested mixture of drugs was given to Lockett. He was declared unconscious by doctors but attempted to speak and raise his head during this time. The execution was stopped but he died 43 minutes after the drugs had been administered.
The US Supreme Court is scheduled to review the state’s lethal injection protocol.
Oklahoma has had to stay 3 executions so far until the court makes its decision.
Nitrogen gas renders a person unconscious before killing them due to a lack of oxygen.
There are a couple advantages to nitrogen gas over lethal injection.  “You don’t have to worry about supply problems and doesn’t require the assistance of medical professionals,” according to criminal justice Prof. Michael Copeland.
Comments
Have something to say? Let us know in the comments section or send an email to the author . You can share ideas for stories by contacting us here .
Copyright           2015          by KPR Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

