NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
WASHINGTON —  The West Wing, where President Obama works, is used to the comings-and-goings of staff members — a never-ending churn that spawns speculation. Now it is the East Wing’s turn.
The first lady, Michelle Obama , is losing two key advisers, including Jeremy Bernard, the White House social secretary, who will be leaving his post overseeing the elaborate parties and showy public events at the most famous of Washington addresses.
Mr. Bernard will be followed out the door by M. C. González, the first lady’s communications director, who helped shape Mrs. Obama’s everywoman image. The departures come on the heels of an abrupt exit by Laura Dowling, the White House florist, who was reportedly escorted out of the building in February.
Sam Kass, the high-profile White House chef who became close friends with the first couple, left last year. And Mr. Obama bemoaned the loss of the White House chief pastry chef, Bill Yosses, in 2014, joking that his pies were so good, they probably had “crack” in them. (Mrs. Obama quickly corrected her husband, saying there had never been any drugs in the White House pastries.)
Photo
Jeremy Bernard, White House social secretary, and M. C. González, Michelle Obama’s communications director, are leaving just as Mrs. Obama is increasing her profile. Credit Charles Dharapak/Associated Press
For Mrs. Obama and the East Wing, the departures leave some big holes just as she has been increasing her public profile in the twilight of her husband’s presidency. Last month, she used a solo five-day trip to Asia to promote education for girls and to press for human rights.
In the weeks ahead, Mrs. Obama and the president will host another elaborate dinner, this time for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. Mr. Bernard will manage that one before he leaves, and his successor, who has not yet been named, is to oversee a state dinner for the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, later in the year.
East Wing officials say the departures are the typical moves of a long-serving staff in the latter days of a presidential term. They said the departures of Mr. Bernard and Ms. González would make way for other trusted staff to move up.
In a statement issued by her press staff, Mrs. Obama called Mr. Bernard “a lifelong friend” and said he had “worked tirelessly to open the doors of the White House to as many people as possible and to make each and every event in the White House one to remember, not only for Barack and me, but for the tens of thousands of guests who pass through our doors each year.”
Of Ms. González, the first lady said she was “incredibly grateful for her passion, creativity, integrity and leadership.” Ms. González will be replaced by Caroline Adler, her deputy.
Photo
Laura Dowling abruptly left her position as White House florist in February. Credit Bill O'Leary/The Washington Post, via Getty Images
The departure of Ms. Dowling was not announced with similar fanfare. The news was first reported by The Washington Post, which cited an administration source in saying that she had been escorted out of the building.
East Wing officials declined to comment on the report. But in a statement, the first lady’s office praised Ms. Dowling, saying her “creations were always lively and colorful, reflecting not only the season but the unique and historic rooms which they graced.” The statement thanked her for “her contribution over the years” and wished her well.
In a statement, Ms. Dowling said she had resigned her position to “pursue exciting new opportunities and explore my passion for floral artistry and design.” She added, “I will always be grateful for this incredible opportunity.”
Mr. Bernard’s departure ends a groundbreaking four years as the first male White House social secretary and the first openly gay person to serve in that position. For most of his tenure, which included overseeing more than 1,000 events at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Mr. Bernard shunned the spotlight, earning less notice than Desirée Rogers, the president’s first social secretary, who embraced the news-media-friendly Washington culture. She departed after a reality television couple crashed the president’s first state dinner in 2009.
In his own statement, released by the White House, Mr. Bernard showed his trademark pleasantness.
“Mrs. Obama has welcomed every guest to the White House with her signature warmth, grace and style,” he said. “I feel so privileged to have worked for such an extraordinary president and first lady.”
A version of this article appears in print on April 9, 2015, on page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Mrs. Obama’s Wing of White House Is Having Its Share of Transition at Key Time. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Loading...

