Christie plays to welcoming crowd at town-hall-style event
April 7, 2015, 6:23 PM    Last updated: Tuesday, April 7, 2015, 8:11 PM
By  DUSTIN RACIOPPI
STATE HOUSE BUREAU | 
kevin r. wexler/staff photographer
Governor Christie answers a question during a town hall meeting on Tuesday, April 7, 2015.
The line of several dozen protesters dressed in red augured a return to the confrontational showdowns between public school teachers and Governor Christie that were once a hallmark of his early town-hall-style meetings as he pressed for pension reform.
But inside the Old Bridge High School gym Tuesday, Christie found an audience that was generally warm, that prodded him to make the White House run he has all but declared, and one that even in a few fraught moments was polite.
Christie, in return, embraced the affection and once giggled at a Girl Scout’s question on what he would fix if he were president. When a woman questioned him on the controversial legal settlement with Exxon Mobil, a moment that may have in the past at least caused him to raise his voice, Christie responded in a measured tone while still dismissing her concerns because, he said, she did not have her facts correct.
There was also a reflective moment later in the 90-minute forum, when Christie told a woman with concerns over how his tough image would play to a broader audience that, yes, he has said things in the past that he would not say again.
“There are always going to be differences of opinion on people’s style,” Christie said.
As Christie’s poll numbers remain low in the very early days of a potential presidential campaign, he is selling himself as the authentic alternative to what he says are insincere leaders in Washington, D.C., an image he has cultivated since the early days of his governorship, when his combative style was largely viewed as refreshing.
“I think we’ve had too much of people in public life pretending to be something,” Christie said Tuesday.
While acknowledging past mistakes, Christie also renewed the promise he has made at many town-hall-style meetings in the past that he will not change who he is, and said when he lashes out at someone, there are many reasons, including “sometimes I just want to do it.”
There was no apparent reason to lash out when Valerie Nugent, a 52-year-old teacher, questioned him on the $225 million Exxon settlement, details of which were made public Monday. Nugent told Christie that the deal “kind of smells” and questioned the oil company’s campaign contributions – which she said totaled $500 million – to the Republican Governors Association last year when he was chairman.
Christie told Nugent that she was “just making stuff up.”
“It’s fine if you want to make a point and be dramatic about it, but you’ve got to be right about it,” he said.
Nugent later told reporters that she had meant to say $500,000 the amount Exxon did donate, and not $500 million, and she said Christie’s response was dismissive and shaped in a way to serve himself.
“It’s typical Christie showmanship,” she said after the event. “I think he’s trying to run for president and he’s obviously trying to tone it down a little bit.”
Email: racioppi@northjersey.com
Tags:

