Posted:
Updated:
By Sanjay Talwani, MTN News Helena
HELENA - The Montana House of Representatives voted Thursday evening in favor of a bill to expand the federal Medicaid program.
A couple of days of procedural questions culminated with 13 Republicans joining all the House Democrats to support Senate Bill 405 , which is sponsored by Sen. Ed Buttrey (R-Great Falls) and was carried on the House floor by Rep. Rob Cook (R-Conrad).
The bill calls for Medicaid recipients to pay part of the plan's costs and encourages them to better their job prospects. It also shortens the time in which patients and bring malpractice claims against medical providers.
Supporters say it will save lives, create jobs and save rural hospitals, while also calling for personal responsibility.
But opponents say it encourages government dependency and creates major new costs for the state, adding that Medicaid fails to actually accomplish the mission of improving the health of its beneficiaries.
Opponents attempted to add amendments on the House floor, but each wad voted down. “The fix is in,” said Rep. Art Wittich (R-Belgrade), an opponent who brought some of the amendments.
He mocked the argument that hospitals are in tough financial shape, noting that they all seem to be making money in Montana, with some executives making seven-figure incomes. He said hospital lobbyists wrote the bill and that the “medical-industrial complex” is alive and well in Montana.
Wittich still had amendments to introduce when the House voted for cloture, meaning an end to the debate.
Rep. Nick Schwaderer (R-Superior), likened expansion to federal policies that led to the destruction of his region's timber industry.
“And then here they come - a bankrupt federal government with a stack of cash and we're supposed to be grateful,” he said. “All this bill is is a gimmick to give hospitals, pharmacies, providers a bunch of money and purchase the votes of the sick, vulnerable and poor.”
Rep. Nancy Ballance (R-Hamilton) said the bill would affect 55,000 Montanans, about 5.5% of Montana's population. (Buttrey has said it would expand coverage to about 45,000 people.)
“Working age adults with no disabilities no children who would be added to a new medical welfare program,” Ballance said. And those new enrollees would compete with the disabled for limited medical resources.
“These people are working people,” MT Rep. Geraldine Custer (R-Forsyth) countered. “These are working poor. These are the waitresses, the clerks, those kind of people. They're not the people. They're not the people who are laying on the couch and watching TV and hoping for a handout.”
The bill has a final vote expected Friday and if it passed, it will go back to the Montana Senate to reconcile one amendment added in the House.
WEATHER
Superfund listing for old Smurfit Stone site considered
Superfund listing for old Smurfit Stone site considered
James Scott Richey appears in Missoula District Court on Thursday.
A 42-year-old Missoula man was sentenced to three years in the Department of Corrections for soliciting sex of an underage girl online.
A 42-year-old Missoula man was sentenced to three years in the Department of Corrections for soliciting sex of an underage girl online.
Western Montana News More>>
Friday, April 10 2015 8:22 AM EDT2015-04-10 12:22:59 GMT
There will be a 45-day period for objections, and possible changes, before the plan is adopted.
There will be a 45-day period for objections, and possible changes, before the plan is adopted.
Valerie Stamey, former Ravalli County Treasurer
Commissioners are asking a local process server to help them build an estimate of how much it would cost to "widen the net" and get outside assistance in tracking Stamey down.
Commissioners are asking a local process server to help them build an estimate of how much it would cost to "widen the net" and get outside assistance in tracking Stamey down.
13 Republicans joined the Democrats to support Senate Bill 405.
13 Republicans joined the Democrats to support Senate Bill 405.
Friday, April 10 2015 8:44 AM EDT2015-04-10 12:44:05 GMT
Deer Lodge Police Officer Eric Miller testifies at coroner's inquest into police fatal shooting Thursday.
Nicholas Frazier shot on on December 19. 
Nicholas Frazier shot on on December 19. 
Search Local Businesses

