A
A
A
The Mets always knew Wilmer Flores’ range at shortstop was limited, but they always felt that his bat and particularly his knack for hitting in big spots would be enough to overcome his defensive lapses. At least Tuesday night, that proved true.
Flores lined a single off Elvis Araujo in the 10th inning to give the Mets a 5-4 walk-off win over the Phillies at Citi Field.
It was the second straight win for the Mets (26-21), who go for their second series sweep of the Phillies (19-29) at Citi Field on Wednesday. The Mets have beaten their NL East rivals 19 times in the past 24 meetings.
The Mets mob Wilmer Flores after his RBI single lifts them over the Phillies.
It was Flores’ second career walk-off RBI and his first walk-off hit.
“It was a good feeling,” said Flores, who has made nine errors this season. “It was a good feeling, because we got a win. So it’s always a good feeling.”
Flores, who was mobbed by his teammates on the field, had tied the game in the eighth. That spared the Mets an embarrassing loss on a night when Jacob deGrom had given them his second straight outstanding start.
Wilmer Flores ties the game up for the Mets in the ninth with a sac fly before winning it in the 10th.
“I truly believe Wilmer has gotten past the defensive lapses,” Terry Collins said. “He realizes there is going to be days when he makes errors and he’s got to play through that. He is doing that.
“When you see this guy start swinging the bat like we think he can, he’s going to put up some offensive numbers that people are going to be pretty impressed by,” the Mets manager continued. “So it was a good game for him tonight. A good game for us to come back and win, especially because Jake was outstanding.”
DeGrom took his first no-decision of the season but threw an outstanding game. He allowed two runs on six hits, struck out nine and did not walk a batter in 7.1 innings. Tuesday night, deGrom got right back on track where he left off Thursday, when he retired 23 straight and struck out a season-high 11 in eight innings against the Cardinals. His streak of retired batters ended at 23 when Ben Revere singled to lead off the game. After allowing a two-out single to Chase Utley in the first, deGrom retired 11 straight before Grady Sizemore’s single in the fifth.
Jacob deGrom tosses 7.1 innings and strikes out nine while allowing just two runs but doesn’t get the win after the Mets bullpen blows a 3-0 lead.
He ran his scoreless streak up to 15 innings, taking it up until the eighth when he gave up back-to-back singles to Carlos Ruiz and Cesar Hernandez. DeGrom left with a 3-0 lead, but he left two runners on base for the first time all night and watched his work unravel.
Revere jumped on Hansel Robles’ first-pitch fastball for a two-run triple, cutting the Mets’ lead to 3-2. On Robles’ fourth pitch of the night, Freddy Galvis tied the game with a single that brought home Revere. Maikel Franco singled off Carlos Torres to drive in the go-ahead run with a one-out ground ball to left field.
DeGrom shrugged off the bullpen’s implosion and simply celebrated the much-needed win.
Curtis Granderson celebrates after scoring a run in the first inning
“It’s definitely a good feeling,” deGrom said of watching Flores’ single drive in Juan Lagares from third in the 10th. “The most important thing is we got the win. I went out there tonight to try and keep us in the position to win and we got the win.”
Only thanks to Flores’ bat.
While Flores’ nine errors are tied for the third-most among shortstops in the majors, Collins sees Flores getting more comfortable as an all-around player lately. He has gone 11 straight games without committing an error and during that span he is hitting .279 with 10 RBI and two home runs, including the three-run shot that led to Monday’s win.
“He looks like a completely different player,” Collins said. “Even in field. When he was going through his defensive lapses, he didn’t hit either. He was pressing at the plate, but now he is hitting and you see he’s relaxed defensively too.” 
Related Stories
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

