Over $80K Raised for Wash. Florist Fined for Refusing Gay Wedding
06 April, 2015
(Photo: Reuters/Gonzalo Fuentes)
Same-sex couple plastic figurines are displayed during a gay wedding fair in Paris April 27.
A Washington florist who was fined for refusing to provide service to a same-sex wedding has reportedly received $80,000 in online donations.
Barronelle Stutzman, owner of Arlene's Flowers and Gifts in Richland, Washington,was recently fined $1,000 for refusing to provide floral arrangements for a same-sex wedding. Stutzman is also facing a consumer protection lawsuit filed by the state of Washington.
A GoFundMe page calling for support for Stutzman has reportedly raised $85,000, with much of the money being raised in the past few days. Many have pointed to a connection between Stutzman's donations and the over $800,000 in donations going to an Indiana pizzeria that voiced its approval of a state religious freedom bill and subsequently received threats to burn down its establishment.
"The 70-year-old grandmother may lose her business, her home, and her savings - because she stood for her faith, she could lose everything she owns!" the GoFundMe page for Stutzman, reportedly started by a friend, reads.
Stutzman previously wrote in a letter to Washington's attorney general that her decision to not provide her services to a gay couple is about religious freedom.
"It's about freedom, not money," Stutzman wrote in February, adding "I certainly don't relish the idea of losing my business, my home, and everything else that your lawsuit threatens to take from my family, but my freedom to honor God in doing what I do best is more important."
Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson has previously said that he gave Stutzman the $1,000 fine to reinforce the importance of the state's anti-discrimination laws.
"My primary goal has always been to end illegal discrimination," Ferguson said . "I'm pleased that today's ruling clearly prohibits discrimination against same-sex couples."
Inside Christian Times
the christian times updates:

