By By DAVID EGGERT Thursday April 9, 2015 3:15 PM
LANSING, Mich. (AP) — Michigan would legalize the use of marijuana for recreational use under the proposed wording of a ballot initiative submitted to the state.
Once authorized by the Board of State Canvassers, the Michigan Cannabis Coalition's initiated law would require roughly 252,000 valid voter signatures before going to the Republican-led Legislature. If lawmakers rejected the bill or took no action, it would receive a statewide vote in November 2016.
The initiative announced Thursday is being supported by six to eight anonymous people from the agricultural, real estate, insurance and education sectors. Spokesman Matt Marsden says Michigan could add jobs and tax revenue by legalizing and regulating recreational marijuana.
The state already allows marijuana use for medical purposes.
A group of marijuana activists also is planning a 2016 legalization ballot drive.
©2015 by The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Currently in Columbus
Advertisement
Latest Headlines
President Barack Obama is calling for an end to psychiatric therapy treatments aimed at changing the sexual orientation or gender identity of gay, lesbian and transgender youth.
WBNS-TV’s on-line public inspection file can be found on the FCC website at 10tv.com/fcc . Individuals with disabilities may contact Becky Richey at pubfile@10tv.com or 614.460.3785 for assistance with access to the WBNS-TV public inspection files.
©Copyright 2015, WBNS-TV, Inc. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please      read our Privacy Policy, About Our Ads and Terms of Service. It is the policy of The Dispatch Broadcast      Group to provide equal employment opportunity to all qualified individuals without regard to      their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, martial status, disability, military status,      citizenship or any other legally-protected status in accordance with applicable local, state and federal law.

