Sudden Infant Death Syndrome may be sparked by higher altitudes
Contributed by admin on May 26, 2015 at 10:38 pm
“This finding should be considered when counseling expectant families and new parents”.
The cause of SIDS is still unclear, but it has been linked to a decrease in oxygen for a long time.
The good news is that the overall risk of SIDS is much less than it once was. High altitude areas have thinner air, which means there is less oxygen to breathe, as per Altitude.org.
The new study published in the Pediatrics journal does provide a ray of hope. But researchers also found that putting babies to sleep on their backs had positive effects on their risk of SIDS across all altitudes.
Sudden infant syndrome is one of the leading causes of death among infants.
In this study the researchers gathered birth and death data of babies in Colorado between 1990 and 2012. Babies with known birth defects were not included in the study.
According to the study, infants who lived under 6,000 feet and those who resided between 6,000 and 8,000 feet didn’t register a difference in SIDS risk.
Researchers then controlled for various factors that could affect infant survival, such as age of the parents, whether the mother smoked during pregnancy, and the family’s socioeconomic status, among other things. But scenario changed above 8,000 feet. In lower altitudes, the SIDS incidence was just 0.4 deaths per 1,000, while across the mountains the figure was 0.8%. About 18 percent lived between 6,000 and 8,000 feet. [7 Baby Myths Debunked]. They too suggested that low levels of oxygen in high altitudes might be the factors.
In fact, even among babies living at high elevations, SIDS was still rare. Not even an autopsy can find that there was something wrong with the infant.
Babies who live at high altitude may face a slightly increased risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), a United States study said Monday.
Pediatric neurologist Dr. Marcel Deray of the Nicklaus Children’s Hospital (Miami) was not involved in the study, but he said that the odds of developing SIDS are still very low. “If [the babies] are able to turn over, they’re probably going to have the motor development to get themselves out of a situation where they have an obstructed airway”.
“Parents living at altitude should really be vigilant about the basics of preventing SIDS, ” she said.
Recent Posts
Copyright © 2015 Rapid News Network. All Rights Reserved.

