More News Headlines
More Opinion Headlines
More Sports Headlines
More Business Headlines
More Food Headlines
More Entertainment Headlines
Lifestyle Sections
More Lifestyle Headlines
More Multimedia Headlines
Log in
By Meg Jones of the Journal Sentinel
April 12, 2015 7:30 a.m.
Tim Nixon reads the letter written on April 14, 1945, by his father.
Meg Jones
John Nixon grew up in Marinette, Wis., and was working as a telegrapher at the Pentagon when he had a chance to witness “the saddest parade” he had ever seen, the funeral procession for President Franklin Roosevelt.
Green Bay— John Nixon was not an overly emotional man.
His job during World War II wasn't easy — among other duties, he handled family notifications of American military casualties. One death, out of millions during the war, hit Nixon especially hard.
Stationed at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C., Nixon walked to Pennsylvania Ave. on a sunny, warm April day 70 years ago to watch an event he felt compelled to chronicle in an emotional letter home to his folks.
I just returned from witnessing our great president's last ride to the White House. It was truly the most impressive and yet the saddest parade I have ever seen.
Nixon wrote his letter two days after Franklin Roosevelt died unexpectedly on April 12, 1945. In neat penmanship on stationery adorned with the U.S. Army insignia, Nixon wrote movingly about the man whose four freedoms he embraced: freedom of speech and worship, freedom from want and fear.
Roosevelt was president for a dozen years and for Nixon and many Americans, he was really the only commander in chief they had known, the president who spoke to them in fireside chats, who saw them through the Depression and World War II. And suddenly he was gone.
All along the line of march, there were armed bluejackets spaced five feet apart and thousands of people lined the street. At the rear of the parade FDR's casket was on a caisson pulled by white horses. And, as I gave a last parting salute to this truly great man, who had given so much to his country, I just couldn't hold back the tears, but I was unashamed of them. For all around people had handkerchiefs to their eyes and many lips trembled.
Nixon's letter is now a family heirloom. His son Tim Nixon, who lives in Green Bay, keeps the tear-stained letter along with a shadow box of his father's dog tags and service medals.
"It freezes a date and time in history and personalizes it," said Tim Nixon.
Nixon grew up in Marinette and was working for Western Union when Pearl Harbor was attacked. Like Western Union delivery people throughout the country, he was very busy on Dec. 7, 1941, and for days afterward, delivering telegrams to families whose kin were stationed in Hawaii. Among them was the family next door to the Nixon household, whose son served on the USS Argonne and survived the attack.
The following year, Nixon, by then in the Army, literally married the girl next door and the new couple eventually moved to Washington, D.C. To his everlasting regret, John Nixon spent the war stateside because as an experienced telegrapher, his talents were needed in the Army's 17th Signal Service Co.
The husbands of his three sisters were all stationed overseas as well as his wife Alyce's brother, the Pearl Harbor survivor. Nixon wanted to go overseas, but his requests were turned down.
When Nixon's four brothers-in-law learned what he was trying to do, "they all wrote him and told him he was crazy. 'What's wrong with you? We're trying to go home. Why are you trying to come here?'" said Tim Nixon.
Instead, Nixon moved in to the newly built Pentagon in 1943, where he spent the war handling communications via radio and telegraph, typing orders and taking care of next of kin notifications for wounded, killed and missing service members. Tim Nixon recalls his father mentioning how overwhelmed his unit was after the D-Day invasion.
While her husband worked at the Pentagon, Alyce Nixon was a civilian employee for the Navy's Bureau of Ordnance in a different building in D.C. Her job was to ensure U.S. ships received ammunition.
After the war, Nixon — who, because of his job in the Signal Corps, ended up typing his own discharge papers — returned to Wisconsin, working at Western Union offices in Waupun and Manitowoc before moving to Two Rivers in 1952 and raising two children. He died of lung cancer in 1969.
Though Nixon, like many veterans, didn't talk much about the war, he told his son about watching Roosevelt's funeral parade and mentioned the letter that his parents had kept, the letter that continues to amaze Tim Nixon.
"The part I remember my dad talking about is they had to get special permission to go see the funeral cortege because they were busy and there was a war on. His boss was a Democrat and he gave as many people time off to see the cortege," Tim Nixon said. "My mom worked as a civilian for the Navy and her boss was a Republican. He wouldn't let her take time off to see it."
© 2015 , Journal Sentinel Inc. All rights reserved.
About Meg Jones
Meg Jones is a general assignment reporter who specializes in military and veterans issues. Meg was part of a team that was a Pulitzer Prize finalist in 2003, and has been honored by the Milwaukee Armed Forces Committee for her coverage.
E-mail Newsletter
The latest local news delivered to your inbox Monday-Friday around noon – or whenever there’s big breaking news.
Enter your e-mail address above and click "Sign Up Now!" to begin receiving your e-mail newsletter Get the Newsletter!
Login or Register to manage all your newsletter preferences.
Photo Galleries
Get the news in photos with the latest galleries from JSOnline. View all galleries
JSOnline Video
Browse the latest JSOnline video below and find more on our video home page .
Loading...

