LATEST
May 27, 2015
May 26, 2015
May 26, 2015
May 26, 2015
Home Technology What’s in Store for Google In The Much-Awaited I/O 2015 Event
What’s in Store for Google In The Much-Awaited I/O 2015 Event
Image credit: AndroidAuthority.net
Google I/O, a two-day conference held annually by Google Inc., is set to take place this May 28 in San Francisco. In this event, Google introduces its latest software developments to enthusiasts and developers from all over the world. There are workshops that developers can attend, as well as opportunities for them to interact with engineers from Google.
The conference is popular with tech enthusiasts who want to keep up with the developments in the Android scene. This year, Google is said to launch Android M, Nearby, and more. Google’s senior vice-president of products Sundar Pichai, dubbed as Google’s product king, will give the keynote address for the event’s opening. Top Google executives occasionally make surprise appearances in the event.
No word has been given out yet about this year’s theme. Google posted on Google Plus that the company was excited to share what they have been developing in the past year.
Android M or Android 6.0 Release
Google’s lips are sealed when it comes to details about their latest Android OS versions, which they only unveil at Google I/O. In last year’s conference, Android L, also called Android Lollipop, was launched. It is rumored that this year the new Android OS will be called Android M, in which M could mean Milkshake or Marshmallow, since Google names its mobile operating systems after confectionaries and candies alphabetically.
What’s in Android M?
One of the features you can expect in Android M is voice access. You can access applications using your voice which gives a hands-free app accessibility to users. Another feature is a location-based service called Nearby. This service allows Android devices to communicate with nearby devices, people and places. The Nearby service is present in the guest mode of Chromecast and has seldom been seen in Play Services. Nothing has been confirmed yet about this feature, but it is believed that Nearby will be unveiled in the session on proximity-based communication by Andrew Bummer, the engineering lead, and Akshay Kannan, the product manager.
Designed for Families Program
Google pointed out in its email to app developers that it may present its Designed for Families program in the conference. It is speculated that the family-friendly version could roll out on Google Play by May 28. A lot of low-quality educational games and applications with many ads has been in Play Store for quite a while now, and Designed for Families will help parents easily find suitable and high-quality games and apps.
Other Google products that might be featured in the conference are the new Nexus hardware for tablets and smartphones, a product update for Chromecast which they launched two years ago, a second-generation Google Glass, and information on Google’s modular phone called Project Ara. Android One was announced at last year’s Google I/O, and it is expected that the company will give more information about its platform, performance, and release. Google’s smartwatch called Android Wear also debuted last year, and it is likely that more updates will be given in this year’s conference.
Feel free to read:
SIMILAR ARTICLES
0
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Reporter Advocate is your news, entertainment, music & fashion website. We provide you with the latest breaking news and videos straight from the entertainment industry.
We are your all-access pass to all the A-List stars around the globe.

