Posted:   04/11/2015 05:57:42 PM PDT
Updated:   04/11/2015 05:57:42 PM PDT
SAN JOSE -- Clad in a tank top and jeans, the young redhead looked like she should be in junior high school, not hanging out with a man along a stretch of Monterey Highway notorious for prostitution.
Two concerned motorists called police, who discovered the girl was only 13 and arrested the man for peddling her sexual services.
The man's 12-year sentence -- four times what a pimp might have received a few years ago -- reflects a growing crackdown on "human trafficking" crimes in California and around the Bay Area. Under the law, all pimping of children is automatically considered trafficking. Voters in 2012 approved tougher sentences for human trafficking of prostitutes and laborers. Santa Clara, Alameda, San Mateo and Contra Costa counties all have devoted more resources to the problem in recent years.
"Human trafficking is a form of slavery that exploits the most vulnerable women, young children and men among us in the most inhumane way," said Santa Clara County Supervisor Cindy Chavez, co-chair of a newly formed county commission on human trafficking. "It's a kind of evil in our lifetime that we must stop."
The Monterey Highway case is one of more than 40 that have been aggressively prosecuted or are under investigation since Santa Clara County last year created the region's first county commission on human trafficking. More than $950,000 has been allocated to pay for a prosecutor, district attorney investigator and three sheriff's deputies devoted solely to the issue.
Advertisement
Santa Clara County's crackdown follows an earlier push by Alameda County, which has led the way statewide by creating a special unit in the District Attorney's Office that prosecuted more than 325 human trafficking cases since 2006.
In Contra Costa, prosecutors working with nongovernmental agencies are applying for a federal anti-trafficking grant that could top $900,000. The federal government spends about $190 million annually on anti-trafficking efforts.
But major misconceptions about human trafficking abound in the general public, activists say. The biggest myths are that it only involves foreign-born immigrants and mostly entails sexual exploitation. In fact, forced labor violations, often involving immigrants, are four times more common in the United States than sexual exploitation, even though they're rarely prosecuted, studies show. And most of the known trafficking victims in the cases that are prosecuted in the Bay Area and across the country are not immigrants, but American women or underage teens sexually exploited by pimps, gangs or other crime rings.
"Human trafficking is wildly underreported and underinvestigated," Contra Costa County prosecutor Aron DeFerrari said, "and we need to do something about it."
The Bay Area is a magnet for trafficking partly because there are so many tourists and visiting businessmen looking to buy sex, said Bertram R. Fairries, the assistant special agent in charge of the FBI's San Francisco office. In addition, Silicon Valley has some of the highest concentrations of immigrants in the state, making it easier for business owners and affluent families to secretly enslave or indenture domestic workers and other employees from foreign countries, a joint study last year by the Silicon Valley Community Fund and Juniper Networks Foundation Fund found.
Cracking down on human trafficking is popular with voters statewide. Proposition 35, which increased prison terms for traffickers and required sex traffickers to register as sex offenders, passed in November 2012 with 81 percent of the vote, the widest margin since California's ballot initiative process started more than a century ago.
In Santa Clara County, the commission has begun training the Valley Transportation Authority's 2,000 workers to recognize the signs that someone may be in the clutches of a trafficker, and plans are in the works to teach hospital workers and others. Already, eight possible sightings from on-duty and off-duty VTA workers have been referred to sheriff's deputies, including the name of a tattoo parlor where pimps are suspected of going to have their names branded on the bodies of young girls.
Human trafficking for both sex and labor is "hidden in plain sight in our neighborhoods," said Lynette Parker, associate clinical professor at Santa Clara University Law School and a leader of the South Bay Coalition to End Human Trafficking, which provides aid to trafficking victims.
One of the people Parker helped is a Mexican man who was brought here at age 13. Along with others from his rural village, he was promised by a former villager who'd made good in San Jose that he'd get better schooling and enough pay to send home to his impoverished family in exchange for working four hours a day on weekdays. Instead, he wound up working 12 hours a day, six days a week in one of the trafficker's restaurants. He finally ran away with the help of a customer.
"There were 26 of us living in a house on the East Side with one bathroom," said the man, who asked not to be identified for fear of retaliation but provided the FBI with information that led to a federal prosecution out of Stockton. "They threatened my family, and after three years said I still owed them money for bringing me here."
More than three-quarters of trafficking involves forced labor, not sexual exploitation, according to an Urban Institute study commissioned by the U.S. Department of Justice. But only 19 percent of the 128 cases brought by federal prosecutors in fiscal year 2012 (the last year figures are available) were against labor traffickers, whose victims often are more reluctant to testify.
Commercial sex exploitation is more visible, both on streets such as Monterey Highway where prostitutes are known to gather as well as on websites where they advertise. The predominance of sex-exploitation cases involving minors also was accelerated in California by a provision of Proposition 35 that treats child victims as trafficking victims without making prosecutors prove traffickers used force, fraud or coercion, as they still must with adult victims of sex or labor trafficking.
But Santa Clara County District Attorney Jeff Rosen is determined to widen the net. He notes that in Alameda County, prosecutors have taken an "Al Capone approach" and charged traffickers with crimes that are easier to prove, such as payroll tax fraud, a tactic recently used to bust a ring of massage parlors and a Chinese restaurant for labor violations.
"The key is not narrowly defining the criminal exploitation, or where the victim was born, but to stop it," said Rosen, who co-chairs the county commission along with Chavez and Sheriff Laurie Smith.
Sex cases pose their own set of challenges, with troubled youngsters often returning to the streets or refusing to testify against their pimp.
Most trafficking cases are discovered when someone sees something unusual. In Orange County, authorities busted a couple who had enslaved an 8-year-old girl after a neighbor reported seeing the youngster doing dishes at 2 a.m. In Oakland, the owner of Century Buffet was prosecuted for underpaying workers $1 million and other financial crimes after someone reported seeing a group of what appeared to be a large group of immigrant men living above the restaurant.
In the Monterey Highway pimping case, one of the motorists who called police said he did so because he "got a funny feeling." He asked not to be identified because of safety concerns.
"All I did," he said, "was see a situation, find it strange and report it."
Contact Tracey Kaplan at 408-278-3482. Follow her at Twitter.com @tkaplanreport.

