Daily News HARRISBURG — Lawyer Common Kathleen Kane&#39s chief of staff resigned on Friday, four months into the job. Blake Rutherford, who took the position in December, follows other people who left crucial positions beneath the embattled state prosecutor. 4 aides...
Kathleen Kane's chief of staff resigns following four months on the job
HARRISBURG — Lawyer Common Kathleen Kane&#39s chief of staff resigned on Friday, four months into the job. Blake Rutherford, who took the position in December, follows other people who left crucial positions beneath the embattled state prosecutor. 4 aides...
HARRISBURG — Lawyer Common Kathleen Kane&#39s chief of staff resigned on Friday, four months into the job.
Blake Rutherford, who took the position in December, follows other people who left crucial positions beneath the embattled state prosecutor.
4 aides quit last year as a grand jury investigated Kane for allegedly leaking secret grand jury details.
She has replaced 5 spokespeople considering that 2013, like 1 who quit in February.
Rutherford shocked staffers by emailing a notice that he had resigned.
“Today is my last day at OAG. While I will miss working alongside each and every of you, I am excited about what this new chapter holds for me and my family members,” Rutherford wrote.
He will join Cozen O&#39Connor, a Philadelphia law firm, in governmental relations.
The statewide grand jury in Norristown, which met for eight months, advised charging Kane with crimes related to the leak of secret details last year from a separate grand jury investigation in 2009, court documents show.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman will make a decision whether to prosecute. Kane denies any wrongdoing.
Kane&#39s outdoors lawyer, Lanny Davis, responding to editorials suggesting she really should resign, blamed her critics for “whispering in reporters' ears, ... Cowards who won&#39t speak on the record.”
He mentioned Kane “is innocent of these politically motivated charges, as we are confident that will be the outcome.”
Rutherford thanked Kane for delivering him an chance and told his colleagues, “It has been a privilege to serve.”
Carolyn Myers, Kane&#39s spokeswoman, issued a statement from Kane congratulating Rutherford on his new job.
“I think anytime there&#39s a legal matter below way, folks will be jittery,” stated Bev Cigler, a political science professor at Penn State University&#39s Harrisburg campus. “They be concerned about their careers. It&#39s a natural thing that occurs. It&#39s economically rational.”
Though somebody beneath investigation is innocent until proved guilty, Cigler mentioned, “workers in the workplace get scared — that&#39s just the way it performs.”
Kane hired Rutherford and Aaron Sadler in a December “realignment” of her workplace. Both worked for the Arkansas attorney basic. Sadler quit in February for a job in Louisiana.
Other public relations staffers who departed consist of Ellen Melody, Dennis Fisher and Joe Peters.
Last year, important staffers left Kane&#39s workplace, including former Very first Deputy Adrian King, former Senior Deputy Lawyer Common Laurel Brandstetter, former senior Deputy Lawyer General Linda Dale Hoffa, and David Tyler, her chief operations officer and legislative liaison.
Brad Bumsted is Trib Total Media&#39s state Capitol reporter. Reach him at 717-787-1405 or bbumsted@tribweb.com.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
04 April 2015 Saturday 00:40
9 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.

