Posted on May 26, 2015 | By Ultimate Rockets
Share this:
By Jonathan Feigen and Jenny Dial Creech
Rockets center Dwight Howard was cleared to play in Game 5 of the Western Conference finals after the NBA ruled that his flagrant foul in Game 3 would not be upgraded.
Howard was assessed a category-1 flagrant foul for striking Warriors center Andrew Bogut as they headed up the floor in the third quarter on Monday. The NBA ruled Bogut was holding Howard and that Howard was trying to break free. Had the NBA upgraded the foul to a category-2 flagrant foul, Howard would have automatically been suspended for the next game.
A catergory-2 flagrant foul does not come with an automatic suspension but because Howard already had received two flagrant fouls in the playoffs, he would have exceeded the limit.
“The verdict is we’re going to leave it as is,” Rod Thorn, the NBA president of basketball operations said. “It was a very close call, but when you put everything together after the interviews and after watching the tape, Bogut was holding Howard’s arm. Howard extricated his arm, sort of flailed his arm backwards and ended up hitting Bogut in the face with the back of his hand.
“He freed his arm. He clearly flailed his arm back, is the term I would use. He made contact with an open hand. It was a very close call because he made contact above the shoulders. The flagrant-1 stands.”
While the play and ensuing call were immediately controversial, Howard didn’t feel like it was as bad as it seemed.
“I don’t mean to do anything intentional, to hurt anybody on the floor,” Howard said after the game on Monday.
He did however acknowledge that he has to keep his emotions in check on the court.
“My reaction was to just try to get him off me, but I can’t react that way,” Howard said. “I just have to do my best to get away from the situation as quick as possible.”
It’s nothing new for Howard, who has had his emotions get the best of him on many occasions throughout his career.
“I’m a very emotional player,” Howard said. “I know I have to keep my cool, but when you are out there and you want to win so bad, that can get the best of me sometimes.”
After Monday night’s game, veteran guard Jason Terry talked to Howard about keeping his composure.
“Yeah, he is absolutely right,” Howard said. “Everything is on the line and I’m super emotional when it comes to playing and wanting to win and my teammates understand how much I carre about our season and what we are trying to accomplish. So they’re always reminding me to keep my head, even though guys are doing whatever they can to frustrate you.
“I’ve just got to try to stay mentally strong.”
Because Howard has three flagrant fouls (all category 1) in the playoffs, he would be suspended for the next game with another flagrant foul, whether a category-1 or category-2. He also has six technical fouls and would be suspended for a game with his next technical foul.
Rockets coach Kevin McHale had argued that he was not convinced the foul should have even been a flagrant foul.
“I don’t know if that’s a flagrant,” McHale said. “He just tried to get him off him. Bogut was grabbing him and as always, the second foul gets called. He didn’t turn around and look at the guy like ‘I’m going to…’ He swiped his arm back because he felt Bogut’s grabbing him.
“In our league, it’s been that way since I first got in the league. Usually, they call the second one all the time. I guess the first thing we’ll learn is we should be the first one to grab.”
Warriors coach Steve Kerr would not answer questions about whether he thought Howard should be suspended, but he was clear that he believed Howard struck Bogut above the shoulders, the distinction that leads to a category-2 flagrant foul.
“I mean, he elbowed him in the head, so I don’t really know what the rule is,” Kerr said. “I’m not sure anyone really knows what the rule is. Seriously, it just seems like every case is a little different. There doesn’t seem to be a definitive answer, and there is a lot of gray area in all these plays, so I understand that. I didn’t really know what to expect. I saw one replay on the board. He definitely elbowed Andrew in the head, and then it’s up to the league to decide, and the officials to decide what to do from that point, so they went flagrant 1, and we just kept playing. I didn’t spend any time thinking about it.”
Hey Andrew Bogut, watch out for your face: http://t.co/OXfL4mOYzG https://t.co/fVCARvxfz7
Tags:
Rockets in 4
Warriors in 4
Rockets in 5
Warriors in 5
Rockets in 6
Warriors in 6
Rockets in 7
Warriors in 7
 Loading ...
Search
Subscribe
Sign up now!
NBA Standings
Search Vehicles
Dealer Spotlight
Browse previous blog posts by month and year of entry. You'll see all the posts for that time period.
Select Month
Show Earlier
Send us a correction!
Did we make a mistake? Complete the form to let us know.
0/1000 characters
Send us a tip or link!
Want to share a story idea with us? Know something we don't? Complete the form below to send us a news tip.
0/1000 characters
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

