Associated Press
 
You have viewed free articles or blogs allowed within a 30-day period.  Receive FREE access by logging in to or creating your Spokesman.com account.
Log In to your Spokesman.com account for unlimited viewing and commenting access.
Don't have a Spokesman.com account? Create a Spokesman.com profile and register for FREE access.
S-R Media, The Spokesman-Review and Spokesman.com are happy to assist you. Contact Customer Service by email or call 800-338-8801
BEREA, Ohio – Except for sporting a tighter haircut under his orange helmet, Johnny Manziel looked pretty much the same.
He scrambled from defenders and zipped passes. He talked to his coaches after plays, and joked around with Browns teammates during water breaks.
Manziel is back on the football field, where he built his Johnny Football reputation and where he must now prove he belongs. His comeback – day-to-day – is ongoing.
For the first time since a highly publicized, 10-week stay at a rehab facility in Pennsylvania this winter, Manziel practiced in front of journalists on Tuesday as the Browns moved into …
You have viewed 20 free articles or blogs allowed within a 30-day period.  FREE registration is now required for uninterrupted access.
Registration Required
log in to your Spokesman.com account for unlimited viewing and commenting access.
Don't have a Spokesman.com account? Create a Spokesman.com profile and register for FREE access.
S-R Media, The Spokesman-Review and Spokesman.com are happy to assist you. Contact Customer Service by email or call 800-338-8801
Associated Press photo
BEREA, Ohio – Except for sporting a tighter haircut under his orange helmet, Johnny Manziel looked pretty much the same.
He scrambled from defenders and zipped passes. He talked to his coaches after plays, and joked around with Browns teammates during water breaks.
Manziel is back on the football field, where he built his Johnny Football reputation and where he must now prove he belongs. His comeback – day-to-day – is ongoing.
For the first time since a highly publicized, 10-week stay at a rehab facility in Pennsylvania this winter, Manziel practiced in front of journalists on Tuesday as the Browns moved into the next phase of their offseason program.
The 22-year-old, who played poorly in two starts last season and then sought treatment for an unspecified issue, did not speak with reporters afterward.
However, several of his teammates gave glowing reports on Manziel. They’ve been impressed with his determin- ation to change a party-boy image after a bad rookie year.
“He understands the mistakes that he’s made, so he’s taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of trouble,” Browns safety Donte Whitner said. “Now he understands how serious it is. He’ll be all right.”
The Browns can only hope so. They invested a first-round draft pick on the former Heisman Trophy winner and have publicly stated they still believe he can develop into a top-tier NFL starter. Time will tell, but Manziel is at least showing early signs of an attitude change.
Whitner said when he arrives or leaves Browns headquarters, Manziel’s car is usually in the parking lot.
“If you’re here in the morning, you see who has those first couple parking spots, you know who was here before everybody else,” he said. “So he’s taken the steps that it takes to be a good quarterback.”
Manziel had a few nice moments during 11-on-11 drills. He threaded a strong pass over the middle to tight end Rob Housler on one play, and rolled right and slipped a side-armed pass for a completion to wide receiver Darius Jennings. Manziel, who will enter training camp as Josh McCown’s backup, also forced a short throw that was intercepted by K’Waun Williams and returned for a touchdown.
Browns coach Mike Pettine did not grade any of Manziel’s snaps, but said he’s been “very engaged in meetings.”
As for Manziel’s personality, Pettine said the popular QB hasn’t changed.
“I just think he’s probably a little bit more focused now,” Pettine said. “But it’s something that he knows and he has said, he’ll have to prove it every day.”
© Copyright 2015 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
By phone
Newsroom: (509) 459-5400  •  (800) 789-0029
Customer service: (800) 338-8801

