Ohio governor has early lead in home state
BLADE COLUMBUS BUREAU
COLUMBUS — Ohio Gov. John Kasich barely registers in electoral swing states Florida and Pennsylvania but is by far the favorite of fellow Buckeye Republicans in the latest Quinnipiac Poll released Thursday.
In a less crowded field, Hillary Clinton, despite legal questions about her handling of emails while secretary of state, holds a commanding lead in the Democratic Party field in all three states.
“Gov. John Kasich’s decision about whether to join the presidential campaign at least for now is the big unknown in the Buckeye State,” said Peter A. Brown, the assistant director of the Connecticut university’s poll. “If he runs, he would be the early leader at home, although his appeal in other states is yet to be shown.”
The poll shows Mr. Kasich to be the choice of 20 percent of Ohio Republicans questioned in a crowded field in Ohio. His support would climb to 22 percent if former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush would step out of the way.
But those numbers may seem underwhelming given that the governor just won re-election in Ohio last year with nearly 64 percent of all votes.
Just 1 percent of Florida Republicans and 2 percent in Pennsylvania say Mr. Kasich is their choice. Mr. Bush and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker lead in those states with 24 percent and 14 percent, respectively.
Mr. Kasich has remained coy as to whether he’ll jump into the race, waiting until recently to make visits to early primary states like New Hampshire and South Carolina. He has instead visited states that are not considered major players in deciding the 2016 presidency during efforts to convince states to back a constitutional convention to promote a federal balanced-budget amendment.
Mr. Kasich doesn’t appear to benefit when Mr. Bush and Mr. Walker are factored out of the equation in Florida or Pennsylvania, where they are the front runners.
Fifty-four percent of registered Ohio Democrats prefer Ms. Clinton, compared with 65 percent in Florida and 48 percent in Pennsylvania.
Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who has repeatedly said she’s not running, is the hypothetical No. 2 in Ohio and Pennsylvania while Vice President Joe Biden, who’s said he might run, holds a distant second place in Florida.
Should Ms. Clinton surprise everyone by not running, Mr. Biden becomes the favorite across the board, carrying 34 percent of Ohio and Pennsylvania Democrats and 42 percent of Florida Democrats.
The poll, conducted March 17 through March 28, questioned between 1,036 and 1,087 registered voters in each state. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percent, but the margin opens as wide as plus or minus 5.4 percent when questions are posed to members of just one party in the samples.
Recommended for You
Guidelines: Please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent. If a comment violates these standards or our privacy statement or visitor's agreement , click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report abuse. To post comments, you must be a Facebook member. To find out more, please visit the FAQ .
Your e-mail:
Your Name:
Friends e-mail:
Friends Name:
Copyright 2015 The Blade. All rights reserved. This material may not be copied or distributed without permission.
Copyright 2015 The Blade. By using this service, you accept the terms of our privacy statement and our visitor agreement . Please read them.
The Toledo Blade Company, 541 N. Superior St.,     Toledo, OH 43660, (419) 724-6000
To contact a specific department or an individual person, click here .
The Toledo Times ®

