Mitt Romney is among the one percent.
That is, the ex-Massachusetts governor and failed presidential candidate ranks among the top one percent in ESPN's NCAA Tournament challenge. Even better, his bracket bests 99.8 percent of the 11.57 million entries in ESPN's pool.
Romney correctly picked six of eight Elite Eight teams, then nailed the Final Four and title game matchups. He has Duke beating Wisconsin in the final — which is perfectly fitting, considering FiveThirtyEight's model gives the Blue Devils a 47 percent chance to win it all.
This just in
CNN's Brian Stelter reported Monday that the Phi Kappa Psi chapter at the University of Virginia is planning to pursue legal action against Rolling Stone magazine.
Rolling Stone has retracted its story about a brutal gang rape that allegedly occurred at the fraternity house. An external review by the Columbia Journalism School found "systemic failures" in Rolling Stone's journalistic practices in producing the article.
Stelter reported that the fraternity has plans to "pursue all available legal action against the magazine," including a potential lawsuit. In a statement, chapter president Stephen Scipione said the retracted article is "a sad example of a serious decline of journalistic standards."
Citing "systemic failures" and "problems of newsroom standards" within Rolling Stone, Columbia's journalism school on Monday said a since-retracted article about an alleged gang-rape at the University of Virginia failed to meet basic journalistic standards. The discredited story, which Rolling Stone pulled Sunday after releasing Columbia's scathing review , was the "collective fault" of the reporter, the editor, and the magazine's entire fact-checking department, the authors of the report said.
"We don't believe in this instance that [the alleged victim] Jackie was to blame," Sheila Coronel, one of the report's authors, said.
Speaking with The New York Times , Rolling Stone Publisher Jann Wenner seemed to cast blame on the subject, calling Jackie "a really expert fabulist storyteller," and adding, "there is something here that is untruthful, and something sits at her doorstep."
There are two ways to become a high-ranking official in the U.S. State Department: You could pass the prestigious foreign service exam , gradually work your way up the ladder to increasingly senior positions, and finally become an influential and experienced diplomat. Or you could just raise a lot of money for a presidential campaign and then happen to mention that an ambassadorship to, say, Argentina or Hungary would be nice.
That latter route is becoming increasingly common , to the point that just 30 percent of State employees ranked assistant secretary or higher are foreign service experts today, while 51 percent are political appointees. In 1975, 60 percent of State higher-ups had risen through the ranks, and just 37 percent were there because they had friends in high places.
A report from the Academy of America Diplomacy argues that reliance on political appointees leaves the State Department less informed and experienced, and removes motivation for top personnel to stay in government work without opportunity for advancement.
Tax Day for most of us is just over a week away, but for as many as 800,000 Americans, taxes aren't due until October 15 .
That's because the IRS sent the wrong form to hundreds of thousands of ObamaCare customers, and about 80,000 of them had still not received the updated form by the end of March. The White House previously announced that everyone would get a corrected form in time for normal filing, but the IRS has generally made good on its promise of a terrible 2015 tax season , so that hasn't happened.
If you are among the taxpayers who got the wrong form, you'll need to fill out this form before regular Tax Day to have the October deadline apply.
This just in
Turkey has banned Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube on Monday after the networks failed to remove images of militants pointing a gun at a prosecutor who was killed last week. The prosecutor died in a shootout between the left-wing militants, who held him hostage, and police.
The Facebook ban was apparently lifted , because the network complied with an order to remove the images. The other networks, however, are still banned under the court ruling. A Turkish court prosecutor has ordered internet providers to block Twitter and YouTube from users.
Turkish government officials said the images were "anti-government propaganda," The Associated Press reports .
This isn't the first time Turkey has banned social media sites. The country blocked Twitter and YouTube access last year, when recordings of a security meeting were released on the sites, but Turkey's highest court found that ban unconstitutional, AP notes.
 
Jeb Bush made a mistake when filling out a 2009 voter-registration form in which he identified himself as "Hispanic," the former Florida governor said Monday.
My mistake! Don’t think I’ve fooled anyone! RT @JebBushJr LOL - come on dad, think you checked the wrong box #HonoraryLatino
A spokesperson for Bush told the Washington Examiner's Byron York that while it remained "unclear where the paperwork error was made," the Bush family "certainly got a good laugh out of it."
 
The premiere of Game of Thrones' fifth season is less than a week away, but the HBO series has already drawn an affectionate parody from an unlikely source: Sesame Street. For its elaborate "Game of Chairs" sketch, "Grover Bluejoy" and a series of the show's most recognizable characters — including Tyrion Lannister, Daenerys Targaryen, and Ned Stark — have been Muppet-ized:
Sesame Street's "Game of Chairs" may not feature any Muppet beheadings or Avenue Q-style sex scenes, but there are plenty of adults-only references for the HBO drama's loyal fans, from "It looks like you choked, Joffrey" to "Do not lose your head over this, Neddy!" See how many more you can spot.

