Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
President Obama spends a busy Friday talking about solar power in Utah, defending his proposed nuclear deal with Iran, and celebrating Passover at the White House.     n the morning, the President will hold a
Post to Facebook
Obama's day: Utah, Iran, Passover President Obama spends a busy Friday talking about solar power in Utah, defending his proposed nuclear deal with Iran, and celebrating Passover at the White House.     n the morning, the President will hold a Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1FpctkK
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Obama's day: Utah, Iran, Passover
President Obama
President Obama spends a busy Friday talking about solar power in Utah, defending his proposed nuclear deal with Iran, and marking Passover at the White House.
Obama, who stayed Thursday night in Salt Lake City, starts the day by visiting Hill Air Force Base to discuss a solar energy jobs program with an emphasis on veterans.
The Energy Department is accelerating a program designed to train 75,000 people -- including veterans -- for jobs in the solar power industry by the year 2020. Last year, the department began a program to train 50,000 people by 2020.
Obama also plans to announce a solar energy training program for military personnel who are preparing to leave the service.
After the Utah event, the president and first lady Michelle Obama board Air Force One for a return trip to Washington, D.C.
Along the way, Obama is expected to make calls in defense of the proposed nuclear agreement with Iran that he proposed Thursday.
Obama says the proposal -- in which the U.S. and allies would reduce sanctions on Iran if it gives up the means to make nuclear weapons -- will prevent Tehran from making nuclear weapons. Republican lawmakers, Israeli officials, and other critics question Iran's commitment.
Back at the White House in the early evening, the Obamas will mark the beginning of Passover with a Seder at the White House that includes friends and staff members.
4 CONNECT 37 TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1FpctkK
USA NOW
Apr 02, 2015

