By Katie Lobosco   @KatieLobosco
'Pitch Perfect' writer talks female-driven comedies
The day after comedian Amy Schumer appeared on ABC's "The Bachelorette," the Internet was all a twitter about her becoming the show's next star.
"Just say yes and we start tomorrow," tweeted ABC executive Robert Mills.
"Here I come," Schumer tweeted back Tuesday.
A person familiar with the network's plans said that although no formal offer had been made, ABC is a big fan of Schumer and would be lucky to have her as the next Bachelorette.
ABC declined to comment.
Schumer, known for her dry humor, is the creator and star of her own show "Inside Amy Schumer" which airs on Comedy Central. Her skits often poke fun at dating, sex and relationships.
She said on "The Bachelorette" that she's a "huge fan" of the show, and enjoys sitting at home watching -- and judging -- the cast. On Monday's episode Schumer walked out on her date.
"JJ is a sweet person. He's just missing charisma and humility and a sense of humor," she said.
Mills' tweet encouraged a flurry of others who think it would be amazing to see Schumer cast as the next bachelorette, using the hashtag #DraftAmy.
Comments
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer . Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
.

