Associated Press
Posted:   05/26/2015 09:08:39 PM PDT
Updated:   05/26/2015 09:08:39 PM PDT
For the first time since a highly publicized, 10-week stay at a rehab facility in Pennsylvania this winter, quarterback Johnny Manziel practiced in Berea, Ohio, in front of journalists on Tuesday as the Cleveland Browns moved into the next phase of their offseason program.
The 22-year-old, who played poorly in two starts last season and then sought treatment for an unspecified issue, did not speak with reporters afterward.
However, several of his teammates gave glowing reports on Manziel. They've been impressed with his determination to change a party-boy image following a bad rookie year.
"He understands the mistakes that he's made, so he's taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of trouble," Browns safety and former 49er Donte Whitner said. "Now he understands how serious it is. He'll be all right."
Miami Dolphins attendance is on the rise. Ndamukong Suh showed up for practice. The $114 million defensive tackle drew attention for his absence from offseason training sessions in recent weeks, but he was on the field with the rest of his new teammates for the Dolphins' first organized team activity.
Brian Burke believes the Montreal Alouettes signing of Michael Sam is a tipping point in professional sports. The Calgary Flames president of hockey operations, who co-founded You Can Play in memory of his late son, says the arrival of the openly gay player in the CFL will be a watershed moment.
Advertisement
"I think it's huge," Burke told The Canadian Press. "To me, this is one of those 20, 30, 40 years from now, people will look back and say 'remember when Michael Sam signed with the Alouettes?' "
Horse racing
Trainer Bob Baffert was pleased with Kentucky Derby and Preakness winner American Pharoah's workout in Louisville, Kentucky, as he prepares for the Belmont Stakes and his attempt to become horse racing's first Triple Crown winner since 1978. The colt breezed four furlongs in :48 at Churchill Downs after Baffert and American Pharoah's regular exercise rider, jockey Martin Garcia, flew to Kentucky for the work.
Motor sports
Conor Daly will replace James Hinchcliffe for this weekend's doubleheader in Detroit. Daly will drive the No. 5 for Schmidt Peterson Motorsports at Belle Isle Raceway on Saturday and Sunday. Hinchcliffe has been hospitalized since suffering a life-threatening leg injury during a crash practicing for the Indianapolis 500 on May 18.
Track and field
Usain Bolt cruised to victory in the 200 meters race at the Golden Spike meet in Ostrava, Czech Republic, as the Jamaican star prepares for the world championships. The six-time Olympic champion came out of the bend slightly ahead and breezed unchallenged to victory, crossing the line in 20.13.
Cycling
Alberto Contador put on a demonstration of his climbing skills on the steep Mortirolo pass and extended his lead in the 16th stage of the Giro d'Italia. Spanish rider Mikel Landa posted his second consecutive stage victory after getting clearance from the Astana team to leave behind captain Fabio Aru, who again struggled.

