By Josh Richman
Posted:   04/11/2015 04:21:27 PM PDT
Updated:   04/11/2015 04:21:30 PM PDT
This is a sampling from Bay Area News Group's Political Blotter blog. Read more and post comments at www.ibabuzz.com/politics .
April 8
A bipartisan pair of California House members is insisting that the Justice Department back off from prosecutions of medical marijuana patients and providers in states with medical marijuana laws -- as Congress mandated in a recent spending bill.
Reps. Sam Farr, D-Carmel, and Dana Rohrabacher, R-Huntington Beach, wrote a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder on Wednesday, reminding him in no uncertain terms that the amendment they co-authored to the "cromnibus" federal spending bill -- approved by Congress and signed by President Barack Obama in December -- bars the Justice Department from spending money to undermine state medical marijuana laws.
The lawmakers cited a recent Los Angeles Times article in which a department spokesman said the amendment doesn't apply to cases against individuals or organizations, but merely stops the department from "impeding the ability of states to carry out their medical marijuana laws."
"We write to inform you that this interpretation of our amendment is emphatically wrong," Farr and Rohrabacher wrote to Holder. "Rest assured, the purpose of our amendment was to prevent the Department from wasting its limited law enforcement resources on prosecutions and asset forfeiture actions against medical marijuana patients and providers, including businesses that operate legally under state law."
Advertisement
State law enforcement agencies are better equipped to determine whether people and businesses are abiding by state laws, they wrote.
"We respectfully insist that you bring your Department back into compliance with federal law by ceasing marijuana prosecutions and forfeiture actions against those acting in accordance with state medical marijuana laws," their letter concludes.
April 9
Best headline I've seen in a while on a government news release: "Cannabis Learning Tour Provides Tax Policy Insight into Budding Industry."
Get it? BUDDING.
Hey, I know it's not subtle, but most of the releases I see are utterly humorless.
This one came from the Board of Equalization, announcing that members Fiona Ma and Vice Chairman George Runner took a listening and learning tour through Humboldt County this week with leaders in the area's cannabis industry. Up there in the "Emerald Triangle," it's a substantial chunk of the local economy. Ma and Runner sought perspective on the product, from seed to sale, to help shape tax policy; the release didn't mention whether they inhaled.
"I am proud to be a part of these informational meetings as part of a broader effort to engage stakeholders who will play an integral role in the regulation of this industry," Ma said in the release. "Our goal is to encourage this industry to come out of the shadows, to register, to become legal, and that is where we must find a balance for the future of our state."
Runner said the tour "provided helpful insights into how we can work with the medical marijuana industry to promote compliance with California tax laws. This is a growing industry, but we're currently missing out on a great deal of revenue that is owed to the state."
State law requires medical marijuana sales be taxed at the local tax rate where the product is sold or will be used, so Runner and Ma want state and local governments to get what they're due.

