April 9, 2015
Posted: Thursday, April 9, 2015 7:31 am
Martinez OK’s expansion of program offering kids more school days Margaret Wright | The New Mexican The Taos News | 0 comments
With a Friday deadline fast approaching, Gov. Susana Martinez lent her signature to 25 pieces of legislation on Wednesday, including a bill expanding the K-3 Plus education program and another measure to limit access to e-cigarette products.
Launched in 2007, K-3 Plus adds 25 instructional days to the school year for students in early elementary grades. The governor’s enactment of House Bill 479 adjusts the program criteria so schools that improved their overall ratings during their participation won’t be ineligible to continue. It also widens the program’s demographic scope beyond kids from a disadvantaged background so that starting next school year, any student can apply to participate.
Analysis by the state Legislative Education Study Committee showed that in summer 2013, 11,639 students were enrolled in K-3 Plus. Participants were more likely to be Hispanic, Native American, English language learners and from economically impoverished homes.
Also signed into law was Senate Bill 153, which reduces from six to three the number of years required before successful teachers can be licensed as school administrators.
Teacher turnover in New Mexico has been on the rise, and retention of school administrators remains a struggle nationwide. According to an October 2014 report published by the national School Leaders Network, one-quarter of principals in the United States vacate their positions each year.
In a news release from her office, Martinez stated that “by expanding our successful K-3 Plus program and helping our best teachers reach leadership positions faster, we can continue to build on our momentum.”
Now that the governor has signed Senate Bill 433, it will become illegal in New Mexico for minors to buy increasingly popular e-cigarettes. The knowing sale to minors of either e-cigarettes or nicotine liquid containers will be subject to criminal misdemeanor charges, the same as such sales of tobacco. Young people under 18 who misrepresent their age to buy the products also will face a fine or community service.
Meanwhile, some county officials will feel the sting of a veto decision on Los Alamos Democratic Rep. Stephanie Garcia Richard’s House Bill 428. The proposal would have allowed counties more leeway setting full-time salaries for certain positions. Existing state law caps them, some severely; the Los Alamos County Clerk, for one, is stuck making $6,000 a year.
Martinez said in her veto message that the full scope of salary adjustments proposed by the bill would have “unreasonable” consequences.
“Signing this bill could result in an increase of more than 25 percent in the salary caps for the Bernalillo County treasurer, assessor and sheriff, and an increase of over 180 percent in the current statutory cap on salaries for commissioners and probate judges,” she added. “For Los Alamos, where salary caps are set between $4,302 and $13,777, the increase is unreasonable.”
Several proposals that passed with enthusiastic support from both lawmakers and members of the public during the session are still languishing on the governor’s desk.
Among them are a measure to create an independent licensing board for body art practitioners and a bill to allow the cultivation of hemp for industrial purposes.
Also awaiting Martinez’s signature is House Bill 560, which was backed by advocates from the state branch of the American Civil Liberties Union as well as the conservative Rio Grande Foundation for the limits the bill would impose on the practice of civil asset forfeiture by law enforcement agencies.
This story first appeared in The New Mexican, a sister publication of The Taos News. Contact Margaret Wright at (505) 986-3011 or mwright@sfnewmexican.com .
Similar Stories
facebook
google
yahoo
aol
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Updated:                                 March 09
Video
facebook
google
yahoo
aol

