Steyer Targets GOP 'Climate Deniers'
With polls showing that less than half of Americans believe climate change is primarily manmade, the costly attack could be a tough sell.
Tom Steyer, who spent more than $70 million through his super PAC NextGen Climate on the 2014 elections, will spend heavily in 2016 as well, the group announced Monday.
+ More
Tom Steyer plans to put Republican presidential candidates in the “hot seat.”
Declaring 2016 a “crossroads election,” the billionaire megadonor’s super PAC, NextGen Climate, announced an aggressive campaign Monday targeting conservative contenders who deny the existence of manmade global warming.
While many Republicans in Congress acknowledge the climate is changing, few agree it is being caused by human activity, a fact overwhelmingly supported by science across the globe but which has yet to take hold in the minds of millions of American voters.
“Whoever is the next president will really represent, in our view, the last best shot to prevent a climate disaster for our children,” NextGen chief strategist Chris Lehane said in a conference call with reporters Monday.
That kind of rhetoric “raises basic competency questions” and also may reflect the influence of big donors over public interest, Lehane said — even as his own organization prepares to invest huge sums in the 2016 election cycle.
To that end, NextGen’s effort will, in part, highlight — and in a way mirror — GOP hopefuls’ ties to Charles and David Koch. The billionaire industrialists have spent hundreds of millions of dollars bankrolling libertarian super PACs such as Americans for Prosperity to defeat Democratic politicians and environmental regulation. This election cycle, the brothers plan to spend as much as $889 million, Politico reported in January.
“Spring training is over, the regular season has begun, and it’s time to engage,” Lehane said, going on to mix his baseball and March Madness metaphors. “Given the views that we’re already seeing coming out of the mouths of these Republican presidential candidates, our climate madness is in full swing.”
Steyer spent more than $70 million in the 2014 midterm elections cycle to defeat Republican candidates. Of the seven Senate and gubernatorial candidates NextGen supported, however, only three went on to win their elections.
“It’s hard to look at 2014 and say that kind of an investment campaign accomplished very much,” says Barry Rabe, a professor at the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan. “The track record is not that you get a lot of bang for that investment.”
Nonetheless, Lehane said, Steyer will “spend what it takes” in the 2016 cycle. He declined to state how much that might be.
The goal, he continued, is to “deploy climate as a wedge issue,” largely through “disruptive activities” to force candidates “to respond, react and engage” – such as by toting a polygraph machine to Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul’s expected announcement launching his presidential campaign Tuesday – plus paid television ads, a “state of the art social media effort” and a so-called Hot Seat campaign to shine “a spotlight on the nexus between Koch and candidates.”
That approach, Rabe says, could produce the kind of “gotcha moments and foot-in-mouth opportunities” that characterize primary campaign season – and which occasionally inflict lasting damage through the general election – but just how effective the overall advocacy campaign may prove remains an open question.
“If the focus is on trying to influence either the outcome of the Republican nominating process or damage the potential candidate, to do that before the nomination process may not accomplish very much,” Rabe says. “If you’re replacing Ted Cruz with Marco Rubio on climate, have you moved the needle very much? And are we likely to see any of the top candidates really saying anything much different from one another on climate change?”
Results of recent polls also offer little incentive for 2016 candidates — and Republicans in particular — to give climate change top billing. While nearly two-thirds of Americans agree global warming is occurring, fewer than half say it is primarily a result of human activity, according to the Yale Project on Climate Change Communication . Even in left-leaning states such as California and Massachusetts, only 55 and 52 percent of voters, respectively, believe greenhouse gas emissions are mostly to blame for driving climate change.
TAGS:
Alan Neuhauser is an energy, environment and STEM reporter for U.S. News & World Report. You can follow him on Twitter or reach him at aneuhauser@usnews.com.
April 2, 2015
Copyright 2015 © U.S. News & World Report LP.

