Haberkip Jutting up like a rounded brown thumb a mile north of the Utah Capitol, Ensign Peak boasts a distinctive claim: This humble hill as soon as served as a Mormon temple — at least for 1 day and for one particular individual. Numerous of the crowds flocking...
How a single Utah hill became a Mormon temple -- for a day
Jutting up like a rounded brown thumb a mile north of the Utah Capitol, Ensign Peak boasts a distinctive claim: This humble hill as soon as served as a Mormon temple — at least for 1 day and for one particular individual. Numerous of the crowds flocking...
Jutting up like a rounded brown thumb a mile north of the Utah Capitol, Ensign Peak boasts a distinctive claim: This humble hill as soon as served as a Mormon temple — at least for 1 day and for one particular individual.
Numerous of the crowds flocking to LDS Common Conference this weekend will take a look at some of the 14 other Mormon temples in the Beehive State (with 3 far more planned or under building). Couple of could understand that the hill north of downtown Salt Lake City played host to the initial LDS temple ordinance performed in Utah.
The peak has a great deal other historical significance, as well, ranging from Brigham Young proclaiming he saw it in a vision as the hill beneath which Mormon pioneers really should settle to an LDS belief that the website represents fulfillment of biblical prophecy.
Ensign Peak's history as a temple is unusual for the reason that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ordinarily reserves its most sacred sacraments — including eternal marriage — for specially designed and dedicated buildings.
A single of these temple ceremonies is called the endowment, a word which means gift. The church's site says that "as portion of this ordinance, we are taught about the goal of life, the mission and atonement of Jesus Christ and Heavenly Father's strategy for his young children. We gain a glimpse of what it will be like to reside in his presence."
Ahead of mobs forced Mormons to flee Nauvoo, Ill., members crowded an early LDS temple there to receive the endowment before trekking westward toward Utah.
To show the importance of temples, Young designated the website for the Salt Lake Temple just days right after he arrived in the Salt Lake Valley. But that iconic temple would not be completed for 46 years. Other Utah temples would be completed before that in St. George, Logan and Manti, but they nevertheless had been decades away.
Meanwhile, Addison Pratt missed the opportunity to acquire his endowment in Nauvoo because he was away as a missionary in the South Pacific. In 1849, he was about to leave once more on a mission to the Society Islands, or French Polynesia. He and LDS leaders wanted him to receive that ordinance just before he left, and Ensign Peak essentially became a temple for the objective.
Minutes of the occasion — published in the book "The Development of LDS Temple Worship 1846-2000" — record that on July 21, 1849, Young, six members of the faith's Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and other basic authorities met atop the hill with Pratt at six a.m.
Young prayed and "consecrated the spot for the present objective of giving ... Pratt his endowment that we might have energy to erect a typical that must be glorified in the eyes of all its beholders, that no unholy factor may come right here, that thy servants may perhaps come right here to present up prayers and get the ministration of angels."
LDS historian B.H. Roberts wrote that the "action was in harmony with the guidelines of the Prophet [LDS Church founder Joseph Smith] in Nauvoo when he stated that these ordinances of the temple under particular situations may be obtained on the mountaintop, as Moses obtained them."
Devery S. Anderson, editor of "The Improvement of LDS Temple Worship," wrote that Pratt's endowment is the only one particular documented to have occurred on Ensign Peak.
Other endowments would be performed before permanent Mormon temples were up and running in the Salt Lake Valley, according to the book, such as in an early Salt Lake City building referred to as the Council House (which later burned down) and a temporary temple dubbed the Endowment Property on Temple Square.
Pratt, originally a whaler from New England, served quite a few LDS missions, such as the faith's first foreign-language mission (he had learned Hawaiian as a young sailor). For a short time, he presented classes in Utah to teach Tahitian to other prospective proselytizers, essentially operating the church's initial language education center for missionaries.
Amongst other historical highlights for Ensign Peak, George A. Smith — a counselor to Young — mentioned that Mormonism's second prophet saw the hill in a vision and was told LDS pioneers need to settle beneath it, according to Dennis Wright and Rebekah Westrup, who wrote a chapter about the hill's history in "Salt Lake City: The Location Which God Prepared."
George A. Smith said Young recognized the hill when he arrived in the valley since of that vision.
Young climbed Ensign Peak two days after he arrived in the valley with other leaders and began arranging the new settlement employing the view from that hilltop.
Wilford Woodruff, an early apostle who later led the LDS Church, recommended whilst there — according to a plaque on the peak — that it was a fit location "to set up an ensign" to fulfill Isaiah 11:12.
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.

