RYAN LAWRENCE, Daily News taff Writer rlawrence@phillynews.com
Posted: Wednesday, May 27, 2015, 3:01 AM
NEW YORK - There is no handy manual for when a major league manager should take out his starting pitcher, so the men who make the decisions must do so more on feel and gut than any strict guidelines.
Jacob deGrom, reigning National League Rookie of the Year, didn't look like a pitcher anywhere near ready to leave the playing premises of Citi Field when he wrapped up his seventh inning of work against the Phillies last night.
He retired 21 of the 24 batters he faced, nine via strikeout. He hadn't walked a batter. He hadn't even allowed a Phillies baserunner to advance to second base.
But then deGrom gave up back-to-back singles to two hitters in the bottom two spots of the lineup - catcher Carlos Ruiz and pinch-hitter Cesar Hernandez - and so Mets manager Terry Collins surmised it was time to take his 26-year-old starting pitcher out of the game.
More coverage
NBA playoffs
NHL playoffs
It was a poor hunch on the part of the fifth-year Mets manager. Collins turned a one-sided contest into a tossup.
The Phillies went from being shut out to claiming a late lead, but the Mets bats picked up their manager.
Two innings after the formerly futile Phillies lineup batted around and battered the first men out of the Mets bullpen, Wilmer Flores dumped a 10th-inning, walkoff single to leftfield as the home team persevered with a 5-4 win.
The loss was the third in a row for the Phillies (19-29) and their fifth in their last six games. They'll try to avoid their second sweep of the season at Citi Field in a matinee with the Mets today.
The Phillies have lost 11 of their last 13 games in Flushing since last May.
"Guys rallied back, we were in a good position," Phillies starter Jerome Williams said. "Unfortunately, they won on a walkoff. Just have to flush this one down the toilet and come out tomorrow."
Following a breakdown from the bullpen on Memorial Day, the Phillies were outmatched on the mound last night. Williams, who brought a 7.03 ERA in May to his final start of the month, pitched just fine, but deGrom was dominant.
The lanky, long-haired Mets righthander breezed through the Phillies lineup all night. From the second inning through the fourth, deGrom struck out seven of the nine batters he faced during a run in which he sent down 11 straight.
Williams may have been able to match deGrom better if Kevin Plawecki's infield single to begin the third inning was erased by a doubleplay one batter later, and not the ignitor of a three-run inning. Following Plawecki's hit, deGrom bounced a routine ground ball to Chase Utley.
But instead of pivoting and firing to Freddy Galvis at second, Utley went with a backhand soft-toss. Galvis took the throw cleanly, but its late arrival to second allowed deGrom to beat out the back end of the play at first. Each of the next three batters reached and scored, giving the Mets a 3-0 lead.
"That's what I was thinking from the get-go, two outs," Williams said of the would-be doubleplay ball that wasn't. "But he was coming in hard. Freddy had the chance to throw it, but I didn't know deGrom was that fast. He got down there pretty good."
"That was hit hard enough," manager Ryne Sandberg said. "There must have been some time lapse there somewhere on the play where we didn't get the turn. It was a solid hit ball with a pitcher running. He runs good, but it still looked like a doubleplay ball."
Williams also wasn't trying to escape blame, either. He walked the next batter, one of his four walks on the night.
"I think that all could have prevented without the walks," Williams said. "Not getting ahead . . . Putting more pressure on myself to get out of that inning."
The 3-0 lead the Mets claimed in the third was the same lead deGrom took into the eighth inning. But after giving up a pair of singles, he was pulled.
DeGrom had thrown 105 pitches last night; he had never thrown more than that in any of his previous nine starts this season. He threw 105 or more pitches in seven of his 22 starts last year.
It must have pained him to watch what immediately followed from the home dugout.
Ben Revere greeted reliever Hansel Robles with a triple, Galvis followed with a game-tying single through a drawn-in infield, and Maikel Franco kept the hits coming with a two-out, go-ahead single later in the inning as the Phillies batted around and took control of a game they appeared to have no business playing just an inning earlier.
In the next inning, Franco made a brilliant barehand play and throw, a la Michael Jack Schmidt, to prevent the Mets from winning the game in the ninth.
"Not really," Franco said when asked whether he thought he had a shot to make the highlight reel-worthy play. "I just tried to catch the ball and try to put a good throw to first base."
"I did not," Sandberg said, concurring with his rookie third baseman. "And even when he fielded it, I didn't know if he'd get it over there quick enough. But his arm really came into play on that."
Franco's brilliant play only prolonged the Mets walkoff celebration by an inning.
On Twitter: @ryanlawrence21
 
Comment policy:
Philly.com comments are intended to be civil, friendly conversations. Please treat other participants with respect and in a way that you would want to be treated. You are responsible for what you say. And please, stay on topic. If you see an objectionable post, please report it to us using the "Report Abuse" option.
Please note that comments are monitored by Philly.com staff. We reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable. Personal attacks, especially on other participants, are not permitted. We reserve the right to permanently block any user who violates these terms and conditions.
 
CARS:
Newsletter
Get the latest from Sports delivered to your email. Sign up now!

