What's buzzing:
View photo
St. Louis Blues head coach Ken Hitchcock watches his players as they head to the locker room after a loss to the Boston Bruins during an NHL hockey game in Boston, Tuesday, Nov. 18, 2014. The Bruins won 2-0. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa)
Have the St. Louis Blues gone from a team with Stanley Cup aspirations to one that just wants to make the playoffs?
Probably not, but the opening messaging of Ken Hitchock’s news conference, announcing the coach had been re-upped for a year by the Blues had that weird kind of feel.
“I know there’s going to be questions about next year’s playoffs, but unless we come prepared to work in September, that won’t be an issue for us because we won’t make the playoffs,” general manager Doug Armstrong said. “We have to come ready to play. We have to prepare.”
The Blues have been postseason flameouts with Hitchcock as coach. They haven’t made it past the second-round, in spite of having some dominant teams in the regular season. 
There were questions about Hitch’s ability to push this group onwards and upwards, especially after such a disappointing loss to the Minnesota Wild last playoff. 
“This is a really good team trying to become a great team. I think I have the tools and expertise to help them along the way,” Hitchcock said.
Honestly, that sounds like a comment that should have been made in his news conference that introduced him to St. Louis in 2011-12 as its new head coach. Not a presser saying he signed another one-year contract.
With the Blues, the question surrounds whether Hitchcock is the problem, or #theplayers on the roster.
Hitchcock said one thing that would have to change for next season is the team would have to be faster. He said that the four fastest teams in the league are the ones still playing. He thinks that can be done with the players currently on the roster. Armstrong said some roster change is inevitable after this season and conversations are gradually starting between the Blues and other teams as more and more teams have become part of the postseason
St. Louis has gone into its last several playoffs as a Stanley Cup favorite, and couldn't seem to find a way to beat its opponent that almost always ended up on a deep run. This tended to mostly be Chicago or Los Angeles. 
This year was especially alarming, since the Blues were just flat-out beat by the Minnesota Wild – not a team that went far like the Blackhawks or Kings. 
Also, Hitchcock’s goaltender tinkering between Jake Allen and Brian Elliott didn’t help the Blues that series.
The player voice of the Blues didn't seem to have a problem with The Hitch again via the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
I've got no issues with him," Blues captain David Backes said. "Does he ride guys hard and has he been on my case at times, where it's made me angry? Yes. But he does it in the light of trying to make our team better, trying to make each individual player better.
"I think if you get caught up in those individual moments at the time you're under the gun, having an interview, those comments come out. But when you take a step back and you realize, 'Oh that's why he was all over me because I was not being as productive as I could be,' he's very effective."
- - - - - - -
Josh Cooper is an editor for Puck Daddy on Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at puckdaddyblog@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter! Follow @joshuacooper
MORE FROM YAHOO HOCKEY
Puck Daddy - 1 hour 27 minutes ago
The Canadian Press - 1 hour 27 minutes ago
AP - Sports - 1 hour 36 minutes ago
Reuters - 2 hours 2 minutes ago
Puck Daddy - 2 hours 5 minutes ago
Rangers forward J.T. Miller delivers a slap pass right in the wheelhouse of Derick Brassard, who notches his fourth point of the night against the Lightning. … More »
NHL Highlights - 2 hours 46 minutes ago
QUEBEC CITY (AP) -- Cole Cassels and Tobias Lindberg scored in the second period and the Oshawa Generals beat the Kelowna Rockets 2-1 on Tuesday night in the Memorial Cup. … More »
AP - Sports - 3 hours ago
NHL Highlights - 3 hours ago
NHL Highlights - 3 hours ago
NHL Highlights - 3 hours ago
NHL Highlights - 3 hours ago
NHL Highlights - 3 hours ago
New York Rangers forward Rick Nash extends his team’s lead by hammer a rebound past Lightning goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy in the 3rd period. … More »
NHL Highlights - 3 hours ago
NHL Highlights - 3 hours ago
Puck Daddy - 3 hours ago
NHL Highlights - 4 hours ago
Buzzing The Net - 4 hours ago
NHL Highlights - 5 hours ago
AP - Sports - 5 hours ago
Buzzing The Net - 6 hours ago
AP - Sports - 6 hours ago
Buzzing The Net - 7 hours ago
The Canadian Press - 7 hours ago
After careful deliberation, the St. Louis Blues are sticking with veteran coach Ken Hitchcock for another season.  The Blues and Hitchcock on Tuesday announced a one-year contract.  ''This is unfinished business for me,'' Hitchcock said. … More »
AP - Sports - 8 hours ago
AP - Sports - 8 hours ago
Puck Daddy - 9 hours ago
Puck Daddy - 9 hours ago
Puck Daddy - 10 hours ago
Puck Daddy - 10 hours ago
Puck Daddy - 10 hours ago
The Canadian Press - 11 hours ago
Puck Daddy - 11 hours ago
Puck Daddy - 11 hours ago
AP - Sports - 11 hours ago
Puck Daddy - 11 hours ago
Puck Daddy - 12 hours ago
NHL - Experts

