Last Updated: 27/05/15 7:00am
Roger Federer: Has a perfect record against Marcel Granollers
Second seed Roger Federer returns to action against Marcel Granollers in the second round of the French Open on Wednesday.
The Swiss star was at the centre of security scare at the weekend as he was accosted by a fan on court following his opening win over Alejandro Falla.
But his attention will have turned towards Granollers, a Spanish opponent who briefly troubled him during their meeting at last year’s US Open.
Granollers took the opening set before Federer stormed back to claim victory and the world No 2 has also beaten the Barcelona man in their two previous matches.
Stanislas Wawrinka also had cause for complaint after he was angered by an article about his private life on the official website.
His post-match comments overshadowed a convincing win over Marsel Ilhan and the eighth seed can put this incident behind him when he faces Dusan Lajovic. 
Tomas Berdych, the fourth seed, continues his campaign with a clash against fellow Czech Radek Stepanek.
The pair have only met three times before, but never on clay, with Berdych claiming victory in their most recent encounter at the Shanghai Masters in 2011.
The world No 4 made an impressive start, breezing past Japanese qualifier Yoshihito Nishioka in his first round match, and will be expected to oust Stepanek.
Kei Nishikori: Producing impressive displays on clay
Kei Nishikori has been tipped as another contender for the French crown and will be hoping to advance with victory over Thomaz Bellucci.
The fifth seed was a first-round casualty last year, but easily avoided a repeat exit with his straight sets win over Paul-Henri Mathieu on Sunday.
In the women’s draw, reigning champion Maria Sharapova will face compatriot Vitalia Diatchenko in her second match of the tournament.
The Russian started the defence of her title in style, cruising to a 6-2 6-4 win over Estonia's Kaia Kanepi.
Third seed Simona Halep also takes on Mirjana Lucic-Baroni, while seventh seed Ana Ivanovic has been pitted against Misaki Doi.       
Message
Sky and our business partners may use your information to contact you about products and services you may like. By pressing submit you are indicating your agreement to this unless you tick the box to opt out.

