Baton Rouge
Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Sexual assault reform bills receive unanimous final passage in Louisiana Senate
Billing for rape
A laminated message on the wall at the New Orleans Family Justice Center.  (Photo by Kathleen Flynn, NOLA.com l The Times-Picayune)
"Oh man, I have to cry right now." - New Orleans rape survivor
Louisiana Senators voted unanimously Tuesday to approve a pair of bills designed to reform the way Louisiana's sexual assault victims are treated by hospitals.
House Bills 835  and 143  by Rep. Helena Moreno, D-New Orleans, together mandate that hospitals no longer bill rape victims for the medical costs associated with forensic medical exams.
They provide funding from unclaimed winning horse racing tickets and expired slot machine tickets to pay for the exams. And they call on every hospital region to formulate a state-approved plan of response so that rape victims will be treated appropriately, regardless of what hospital they walk into and in what parish they reside.
Rep. Helena Moreno, D-New OrleansFile photo 
"We're thrilled," said Ebony Tucker, executive director of the Louisiana Foundation Against Sexual Assault, the state's leading victims advocacy group. "In the beginning what we wanted was a statewide payment system, one agency that would be billed and the people who would be involved in the process working on it together. So, I'm happy."
The New Orleans woman whose hospital bills from Interim LSU Hospital inspired the initial story sounded overwhelmed and overjoyed by news of Tuesday's votes.
"Oh man, I have to cry right now," she said. "It's a move that says we really support you and we don't want you to have to suffer any more than you already have."
The path to the bills' final passage wasn't without bumps, despite passionate testimony  by victims.
Tuesday's votes came in the midst of last-minute objections by East Baton Rouge Parish District Attorney's Office , which sought to have greater control over the regional response plan. District Attorney Hillar Moore said Tuesday that East Baton Rouge's system for treating sexual assault victims when they need medical care is already working. Moore's office has been at odds with East Baton Rouge Coroner Dr. Beau Clark over how their parish handles rape victims.
Sen. Dan Claitor, R-Baton Rouge, a former prosecutor, offered a hotly debated set of amendments on Moore's behalf of that would have given district attorneys across the state the power to approve those plans. "I tell you, Murphy's Law will come to bear and victims will suffer if we don't have somebody driving the bus and my feeling is it should be the DA," Claitor said.
But Sen. J.P. Morrell, D-New Orleans, who introduced Moreno's bills on the Senate floor, and Sen. Karen Carter-Peterson, D-New Orleans, both argued that the Louisiana District Attorney Association had aired no objection to the legislation.
State Sen. J.P. Morrell, D-New OrleansLauren McGaughy, NOLA.com | The Times Picayune 
"There was an amendment brought on behalf of, pretty much one parish out of 64," Peterson said. "You've not gotten any other notes from any of your other DAs. All your other DAs are not up in arms about this. This is one DA. East Baton Rouge DA."
With only seven votes, Claitor's amendments failed.
The approved legislation allows hospitals to bill the Crime Victims Reparations Board up to $1,000 for care of each sexual assault victim, including the costs of a medical examiner, the use of health care facilities and supplies, scope procedures used to examine evidence of assault, laboratory testing such as screenings for pregnancy, HIV and other sexually transmitted disease, and any medication provided in the course of the exam.
Victims will also have the right to specifically permit hospitals to bill their insurance directly, if they so choose, but insurers must waive any deductibles, co-pays or co-insurance that would otherwise be sent to the patient.
Hospitals and medical providers that don't comply could face penalties.
The two bills will go back to the House of Representatives so that the bill's sponsors can signal approval of a few final Senate amendments. And from there, it will go to Gov. Bobby Jindal for his signature.
Jindal in the fall issued two executive orders  designed to improve the situation for rape victims in the short-term, but his administration always said a permanent remedy would only be possible through legislation. One of Jindal's lieutenants, Assistant Chief of Staff Stafford Palmieri, worked closely with Moreno throughout the process, even attending legislative committee hearings on the bill every step of the way .
Moreno said Tuesday she was somewhat unnerved about what might happen to the bill in the face of the East Baton Rouge Parish concerns -- so much so that she walked across the capital and made an appearance on the Senate floor to try to be there while Morrell fielded questions on the bill.
* * *
Breaking News/Live events
 
optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for signing up!
Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you dont' see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Video          of the Day
© 2015 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

