Clinton to start 2016 bid with focus on voter interaction - wistv.com - Columbia, South Carolina
By JULIE PACE
AP White House Correspondent
WASHINGTON (AP) - Hillary Rodham Clinton is expected to launch her campaign for president sometime in the next two weeks and will initially focus on intimate events, rather than soaring speeches to big rallies, as her team looks to put her in direct contact with voters in states with early primaries or caucuses.
The goal, according to two people close to the Clinton organization, is to make Clinton's second run for the White House more about voters and less about herself.
While it appears at this moment that Clinton will not face a tough primary challenge in 2016, she is aiming to show voters she plans to earn their support and won't take the Democratic Party's nomination for granted.
The strategy is also aimed at playing to what Clinton allies see as her strengths. Friends and advisers have long said she is more at ease in small group settings and one-on-one conversations where she can display her policy expertise, as well as personal warmth that she sometimes struggles to convey in front of larger crowds.
When Clinton ran for Senate in 2000, she kicked off her campaign with a listening tour across New York state.
The approach also comes with risks. More loosely scripted appearances increase the chances that Clinton could be drawn off message or make a misstep that causes a distraction for the campaign. The former secretary of state has also been off the campaign trail for years, and she seemed rusty in fielding questions during interviews on a book tour last year.
The exact date of Clinton's launch is a closely guarded secret, but the announcement is expected by mid-April. Clinton aides have been checking in with longtime supporters on their whereabouts this month and Democratic operatives in Iowa and New Hampshire have essentially been put on standby.
Clinton may make the official announcement with an online video or social media post, though those plans are still being finalized. She is expected to quickly hit the campaign trail, with stops in Iowa and New Hampshire.
It's unclear whether Clinton's husband, former president Bill Clinton, and her daughter, Chelsea, will hold solo events in the campaign's early stages.
___
Follow Julie Pace on Twitter at: http://twitter.com/jpaceDC
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Monday, April 6 2015 12:01 PM EDT2015-04-06 16:01:57 GMT
Federal prosecutors and lawyers for Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev (joh-HAHR' tsahr-NEYE'-ehv) have one last chance to make their case to the jury. More >>
A prosecutor has told a jury that Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev (joh-HAHR' tsahr-NEYE'-ehv) targeted men, women and children at the marathon because he wanted to terrorize the United States on a day when... More >>
Tens of thousands of people are gathering on the White House South Lawn for the annual Easter egg roll festivities. More >>
President Barack Obama kicked off the annual White House Easter egg roll Monday and used the occasion to tout the fifth anniversary of first lady Michelle Obama's campaign to get kids to eat healthy and exercise. More >>
Lawyers for former New England Patriots player Aaron Hernandez have called their first witness in his murder trial. More >>
The first defense witness in the murder trial of former New England Patriots player Aaron Hernandez is a doctor who says PCP can cause people to be suddenly violent, even days after smoking it. More >>
The King will not appear at Elvis Presley's Graceland Wedding Chapel that's coming soon to Las Vegas - exactly how Priscilla Presley wants it. More >>
   
Amanda Knox 'so grateful to have my life back' after Italian court overturns conviction More >>
Amanda Knox 'so grateful to have my life back' after Italian court overturns conviction More >>
   

