Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning.
Post to Facebook
5 things you need to know Wednesday The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HKsHsQ
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
This story is part of the series 5 THINGS TO KNOW
Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James dunks the ball during against the Atlanta Hawks in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference Finals.
(Photo: Ken Blaze, USA TODAY Sports)
1. Warriors try to finish off Rockets, join Cavs in finals
The Golden State Warriors will try to wrap up their series against the Houston Rockets on Wednesday, which would send them to Game 1 of the Finals against the Cleveland Cavaliers on June 4. The Warriors currently lead the series 3-1, after the Rockets caught fire to avoid a sweep Monday. The Cavaliers sealed their trip to the Finals with a 118-88 rout to complete their sweep of the Atlanta Hawks in the Eastern Conference finals. This will be the Cavaliers first trip to the Finals since 2007, but it will also be LeBron James' fifth consecutive trip there, making him the first player to accomplish that feat with different teams.
Houston Rockets guard James Harden (13) is defended by Golden State Warriors guard Andre Iguodala (9) during the second half in game four of the Western Conference Finals of the NBA Playoffs at Toyota Center. 
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, Thomas B. Shea-USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas B. Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas B. Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, Troy Taormina-USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: David J. Phillip, Pool photo via USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
Replay
Autoplay
2. Santorum poised to join 2016 field
Former senator and House member Rick Santorum is set to announce his candidacy at an event Wednesday in Butler County, Pa., near his boyhood home. Santorum, 57, mounted a surprisingly strong run in 2012 after languishing in polls for months leading up to the Iowa caucuses. He ultimately won in Iowa — belatedly, after Mitt Romney was initially declared the winner — and would go on to carry 10 additional states. Santorum will join a growing GOP field for 2016 that is likely to include more than a dozen candidates.
Then-congressman Rick Santorum, R-Pa., waves to the crowd while holding his 3-year-old daughter, Elizabeth, at a May 10, 1994, Senate campaign rally in Monroeville, Pa. 
(Photo: Keith B. Srakocic, AP)
(Photo: Bill Perry, Gannett News Service)
(Photo: Cliff Schiappa, AP)
(Photo: GENE J. PUSKAR, Associated Press)
(Photo: Jeff Fusco, Getty Images)
(Photo: Gene  J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Matt Rourke, AP)
(Photo: Eric Gay, AP)
(Photo: Gerald Herbert, AP)
(Photo: Jae C. Hong, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Charlie Neibergall, AP)
(Photo: H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY)
(Photo: John Taggart, European Pressphoto Agency)
(Photo: Manuel Balce Ceneta, AP)
(Photo: Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Nati Harnik, AP)
(Photo: Alonzo Adams, AP)
Replay
Autoplay
3. Iraqis to arm more Sunni fighters in battle to retake Ramadi
The U.S.-led coalition in Iraq confirmed that Iraqi security forces are engaged in an operation to retake Ramadi , with between 2,000 and 3,000 Iraqi army forces near the city, along with coalition air support. Ahmad al-Assadi, a spokesman for Iraq's Shiite militias said Ramadi, Anbar's provincial capital, is besieged from three sides by Iraqi forces with some 4,000 Sunni tribal fighters participating in the fight. Two officials from Anbar said the operation is focused on cutting off supply routes to the city first and that more Sunni fighters would be armed Wednesday to join the battle.
Iraq announced Tuesday it is renewing efforts to drive the Islamic State from western Anbar province. Without providing details, authorities said a new operation was being launched with Iraq troops supported by Shiite and Sunni forces. Wochit
4. Nebraska Senate could abolish death penalty with veto override
Gov. Pete Ricketts, R-Neb., vetoed a bill Tuesday that would have abolished capital punishment in a traditionally conservative state for the first time in more than 40 years. The state Senate will try to override that veto Wednesday. Many senators argued that they oppose the death penalty for religious reasons. Others said it was too costly and inefficient, and questioned whether government could be trusted to manage it. Thirty senators are needed to override the veto, which is a realistic number since the measure initially passed 32-15. One senator has already publicly said he has changed his position, so Ricketts only needs to convince two more to do the same.
Gov. Pete Ricketts speaks during a news conference Tuesday, accompanied by a group of state senators and other supporters, regarding his veto of a bill passed by the legislature that would repeal the death penalty in Nebraska.
 (Photo: AP/Kristin Streff, Lincoln Journal Star)
5. The Space Station's getting a bit of a makeover
NASA robotics officers on Wednesday morning plan to relocate an International Space Station storage module, the biggest change to the station's structure since its assembly was completed in 2011 . Teams in Houston will command the station's 58-foot, Canadian-built robotic arm to pull the Permanent Multi-purpose Module, or PMM, from the Unity node's Earth-facing port to the Tranquility node's forward port. It should take a few hours, with NASA TV coverage starting at 8 a.m.
The Canadarm 2 reaches out to capture the SpaceX Dragon cargo spacecraft and prepare it to be pulled into its port on the International Space Station April 17, 2015.
 (Photo: NASA, AP)
Developing story: FIFA officials held over corruption allegations at behest of U.S.
FIFA, world soccer's governing body, was rocked by a dramatic scandal on Wednesday after six officials were arrested in Switzerland and face extradition to the United States on suspicion of federal corruption charges.
FIFA president Sepp Blatter now finds his organization in a scandal following the arrest of six officials on corruption charges.
 (Photo: Fabrice Coffrini, AFP/Getty Images)
And, the essentials:
Weather: Steamy, summer-like heat will spread over the East on Wednesday while the southern Plains sees a few more showers and storms.
Stocks: Wall Street was set to open lower on Wednesday.
TV Tonight: Wondering what to watch tonight ? TV critic Robert Bianco looks at iHeartRadio Country Festival, Bullseye and The Briefcase.
You can also subscribe to get the day's top news each weekday in your inbox or find us on the Yo! app: justyo.co/usatoday .
Contributing: The Associated Press
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1HKsHsQ
This story is part of the series 5 THINGS TO KNOW


NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Advertisement
Search
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Inside
CLEVELAND —  Escorted by family members and friends, LeBron James walked out of Quicken Loans Arena cradling his sleepy youngest son with his left arm while clutching an expensive bottle of champagne in his right hand.
It was time for one James to go to bed, the other to have a late-night drink and get some much-needed rest.
The NBA Finals lie ahead.
Taking his magnificent game to a higher level, James sent the Cavaliers into the finals for the second time in franchise history on Tuesday night with a 118-88 romp over the Atlanta Hawks, who couldn't stop the four-time league MVP and were swept in four straight.
Driven by the chance to end the city's half-century-old championship drought, James was brilliant from start to finish. He averaged 30.3 points, 11 rebounds and 9.3 assists, the first player in postseason history to put up that statistical line. He's never been better in the playoffs.
The Cavs don't have a finals opponent yet as Golden State and Houston still have to settle things out West. But in the East, one team stands above all the others — the one with James, who will appear in his fifth consecutive finals after going four times in a row with Miami.
He came back to Ohio to win a title for his home region, where second place has been as good as it gets since the Browns ruled the NFL in 1964. There has been heartbreak in the years since as the Indians lost two World Series, the Browns were denied in three AFC championship games by Denver's John Elway and the Cavs were swept by San Antonio in 2007.
With four wins, James can change that.
"We all know how long it's been since a champion has been in this city," he said. "We will give our best shot."
In the delirious moments after Game 4, James stood at mid-court as adoring Cleveland fans chanted: "N-B-A Finals (clap, clap, clap, clap, clap)." He pulled a conference championship T-shirt over his head and put on a cap before turning to teammate J.R. Smith with a simple message.
"Four more," he said.
LONG LAYOFF: The Finals don't start until June 4, giving the Cavaliers nearly eight full days to get healthy — or as close to healthy as possible.
James has been battling an assortment of injuries and Kyrie Irving returned to the lineup after missing Games 2 and 3 with knee tendinitis. The break will also give the Cavs a chance to recharge mentally for their toughest challenge yet.
IRVING'S ISSUES: Irving has battled knee soreness and a sprained right foot throughout the playoffs. The All-Star scored 16 and had five assists in 22 minutes in Game 4. There's a good chance Irving won't be fully healed until after the season, so he might be more a role player in the finals.
Sitting again wasn't an option.
"I knew that I wasn't gonna sit on the bench and watch our guys go through a close-out game," he said. "I just wanted to be out there so bad. These last four days have been kind of hell for me. Just icing, icing, icing."
Backup Matthew Dellavedova stepped up against Atlanta, pestering the Hawks with his belly-to-belly defense and knocking down big shots.
CAST OF CHARACTERS: The Cavs don't rely on James to do everything. Besides Dellavedova, the Cavs have gotten major contributions from several role players. Tristan Thompson has grabbed 10 or more rebounds in seven of his nine starts; J.R. Smith made eight 3-pointers in Game 1 and four in Game 4 with 10 rebounds; Timofey Mozgov had 14 points; and Iman Shumpert is the team's best perimeter defender.
The Cavs have become selfless.
"That's what trying to accomplish a dream is all about," James said.
DOMINATING DEFENSE: The Cavaliers are allowing just 92.6 points per game, tied with Chicago for best among any teams in this postseason, and limiting opponents to 41.2 percent shooting. Atlanta shot just 23.4 percent from 3-point range (5 of 32 in Game 4), lowering opponents' shooting percentage against the Cavs behind the arc to 27.8 percent.
"Cleveland's defense was good the entire series," Hawks coach Mike Budenholzer said.
HOT IN CLEVELAND: The Cavs will host Games 3 and 4, and if necessary Game 6, at Quicken Loans Arena, one of the league's noisiest buildings. They have won 26 of their last 28 at the Q, including 18 by double digits.
Loading...

