Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning.
Post to Facebook
5 things you need to know Wednesday The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HKsHsQ
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
This story is part of the series 5 THINGS TO KNOW
Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James dunks the ball during against the Atlanta Hawks in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference Finals.
(Photo: Ken Blaze, USA TODAY Sports)
1. Warriors try to finish off Rockets, join Cavs in finals
The Golden State Warriors will try to wrap up their series against the Houston Rockets on Wednesday, which would send them to Game 1 of the Finals against the Cleveland Cavaliers on June 4. The Warriors currently lead the series 3-1, after the Rockets caught fire to avoid a sweep Monday. The Cavaliers sealed their trip to the Finals with a 118-88 rout to complete their sweep of the Atlanta Hawks in the Eastern Conference finals. This will be the Cavaliers first trip to the Finals since 2007, but it will also be LeBron James' fifth consecutive trip there, making him the first player to accomplish that feat with different teams.
Houston Rockets guard James Harden (13) is defended by Golden State Warriors guard Andre Iguodala (9) during the second half in game four of the Western Conference Finals of the NBA Playoffs at Toyota Center. 
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, Thomas B. Shea-USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas B. Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas B. Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, Troy Taormina-USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: David J. Phillip, Pool photo via USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
Replay
Autoplay
2. Santorum poised to join 2016 field
Former senator and House member Rick Santorum is set to announce his candidacy at an event Wednesday in Butler County, Pa., near his boyhood home. Santorum, 57, mounted a surprisingly strong run in 2012 after languishing in polls for months leading up to the Iowa caucuses. He ultimately won in Iowa — belatedly, after Mitt Romney was initially declared the winner — and would go on to carry 10 additional states. Santorum will join a growing GOP field for 2016 that is likely to include more than a dozen candidates.
Then-congressman Rick Santorum, R-Pa., waves to the crowd while holding his 3-year-old daughter, Elizabeth, at a May 10, 1994, Senate campaign rally in Monroeville, Pa. 
(Photo: Keith B. Srakocic, AP)
(Photo: Bill Perry, Gannett News Service)
(Photo: Cliff Schiappa, AP)
(Photo: GENE J. PUSKAR, Associated Press)
(Photo: Jeff Fusco, Getty Images)
(Photo: Gene  J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Matt Rourke, AP)
(Photo: Eric Gay, AP)
(Photo: Gerald Herbert, AP)
(Photo: Jae C. Hong, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Charlie Neibergall, AP)
(Photo: H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY)
(Photo: John Taggart, European Pressphoto Agency)
(Photo: Manuel Balce Ceneta, AP)
(Photo: Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Nati Harnik, AP)
(Photo: Alonzo Adams, AP)
Replay
Autoplay
3. Iraqis to arm more Sunni fighters in battle to retake Ramadi
The U.S.-led coalition in Iraq confirmed that Iraqi security forces are engaged in an operation to retake Ramadi , with between 2,000 and 3,000 Iraqi army forces near the city, along with coalition air support. Ahmad al-Assadi, a spokesman for Iraq's Shiite militias said Ramadi, Anbar's provincial capital, is besieged from three sides by Iraqi forces with some 4,000 Sunni tribal fighters participating in the fight. Two officials from Anbar said the operation is focused on cutting off supply routes to the city first and that more Sunni fighters would be armed Wednesday to join the battle.
Iraq announced Tuesday it is renewing efforts to drive the Islamic State from western Anbar province. Without providing details, authorities said a new operation was being launched with Iraq troops supported by Shiite and Sunni forces. Wochit
4. Nebraska Senate could abolish death penalty with veto override
Gov. Pete Ricketts, R-Neb., vetoed a bill Tuesday that would have abolished capital punishment in a traditionally conservative state for the first time in more than 40 years. The state Senate will try to override that veto Wednesday. Many senators argued that they oppose the death penalty for religious reasons. Others said it was too costly and inefficient, and questioned whether government could be trusted to manage it. Thirty senators are needed to override the veto, which is a realistic number since the measure initially passed 32-15. One senator has already publicly said he has changed his position, so Ricketts only needs to convince two more to do the same.
Gov. Pete Ricketts speaks during a news conference Tuesday, accompanied by a group of state senators and other supporters, regarding his veto of a bill passed by the legislature that would repeal the death penalty in Nebraska.
 (Photo: AP/Kristin Streff, Lincoln Journal Star)
5. The Space Station's getting a bit of a makeover
NASA robotics officers on Wednesday morning plan to relocate an International Space Station storage module, the biggest change to the station's structure since its assembly was completed in 2011 . Teams in Houston will command the station's 58-foot, Canadian-built robotic arm to pull the Permanent Multi-purpose Module, or PMM, from the Unity node's Earth-facing port to the Tranquility node's forward port. It should take a few hours, with NASA TV coverage starting at 8 a.m.
The Canadarm 2 reaches out to capture the SpaceX Dragon cargo spacecraft and prepare it to be pulled into its port on the International Space Station April 17, 2015.
 (Photo: NASA, AP)
Developing story: FIFA officials held over corruption allegations at behest of U.S.
FIFA, world soccer's governing body, was rocked by a dramatic scandal on Wednesday after six officials were arrested in Switzerland and face extradition to the United States on suspicion of federal corruption charges.
FIFA president Sepp Blatter now finds his organization in a scandal following the arrest of six officials on corruption charges.
 (Photo: Fabrice Coffrini, AFP/Getty Images)
And, the essentials:
Weather: Steamy, summer-like heat will spread over the East on Wednesday while the southern Plains sees a few more showers and storms.
Stocks: Wall Street was set to open lower on Wednesday.
TV Tonight: Wondering what to watch tonight ? TV critic Robert Bianco looks at iHeartRadio Country Festival, Bullseye and The Briefcase.
You can also subscribe to get the day's top news each weekday in your inbox or find us on the Yo! app: justyo.co/usatoday .
Contributing: The Associated Press
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1HKsHsQ
This story is part of the series 5 THINGS TO KNOW


Sam Amico
+
 
MAY 27, 12:42 am
LeBron James talks about advancing to the NBA Finals, being a leader for his team and more.
Share This Story
     
CLEVELAND -- Today, everyone is celebrating LeBron James .
All the talk is about how he returned home, how he lifted the Cavaliers to the second finals appearance in franchise history, how he's become a leader in every sense of the word.
And that's mostly the way it should be. James has rescued pro basketball in Cleveland.
But the Cavs also swept the Atlanta Hawks because they pulled together as a team. They shared the ball. They rebounded. They defended -- oh, man, did they defend.
They also finished the job with the greatest of ease, skating their way to a 118-88 win over the Hawks on Tuesday. The Hawks won 60 games. They led for all of 20 seconds in Game 4.
So much went right for the Cavs, it's easy to forget they were the reason so much went wrong for the Hawks. But like nearly every game in the playoffs against every team, the Cavs suffocated the Hawks into 42-percent shooting.
That's actually better than the 41 percent the Cavs have normally allowed, but not by much. They also out-rebounded the Hawks by 43-32 count.
Those reasons and more are why it's easy to believe the Cavs have no plans to stop with an Eastern Conference championship.
Oh, they also celebrated the return of Kyrie Irving. While James was driving and dunking his way to 23 points (and nine rebounds and seven assists), Irving went for 16 points and five assists after missing two games with a bum foot and worse knee.
Remember, this is Irving's first playoff appearance. Remember, same goes for Tristan Thompson and Matthew Dellavedova .
And remember, the Cavs spent the four seasons prior to this in pro basketball purgatory -- or worse. Truth is, the Cavs compiled the NBA's worst record over the past four seasons. They didn't defend or score or hold leads with any sort of consistency.
Now? They're in the finals, and that's really the truth.
Heart and soul
So please, go ahead and give James lots of credit. This sort of run doesn't happen without a superstar. Just ask the Hawks. But don't forget the other guys. If this is to continue on, they'll all have to keep doing their thing.
The good news is everyone doesn't just enjoy playing with LeBron, but they all seem to cherish their roles. Thompson knows if he gets 16 points and 11 boards, as he did Tuesday, it won't go to waste. Instead, it will go toward something meaningful. It will help complete greatness.
Same goes for Irving and Iman Shumpert and Timofey Mozgov and J.R. Smith (18 points, 10 rebounds), and even Dellavedova -- who played about 17 important minutes despite being sick.
And the coaching of David Blatt and his staff has been nothing short of magical. Blatt is fronting a program that really is in its first year, from Blatt all the way down. Yet he has his team's undivided attention. Often, not even seasoned coaches get that. Blatt has it in Year 1 of his American pro basketball coaching experience, and he has troops united and determined.
"I just think we're playing really hard," Blatt said. "Even when we're not great, we're still playing hard. Since January, I don't know that there's a harder-playing team than us, and that takes you a long way."
Blatt speaks the truth.
The Cavs are down Kevin Love (shoulder surgery) and Anderson Varejao (Achilles surgery). That means they've spent the majority of the season playing, as James likes to say, "next man up" basketball. They've had to fill in the gaps at the most important time of the year. And now, they are here.
That doesn't happen solely because of one man. Granted, James is still just better than most, maybe still better than all, and he has the type of postseason pedigree to carry his team to great things. His presence alone can do that.
That is a great advantage to possess -- but it's not all the Cavs possess.
Mostly, this has been a season of LeBron James coming home, and the other guys capitalizing on it. Both of those things are why the Cavs may not be done just yet.
0 Comments
You may use your Facebook account to add a comment on FoxSports.com , subject to Facebook's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Your Facebook name, photo, other personal information you make public on Facebook and comment will appear on FoxSports.com , and may be used on Fox Sports' other media platforms. Any questions?
FOXSports.com >
Other FOX Sites >
©2015 Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

