Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning.
Post to Facebook
5 things you need to know Wednesday The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HKsHsQ
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
This story is part of the series 5 THINGS TO KNOW
Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James dunks the ball during against the Atlanta Hawks in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference Finals.
(Photo: Ken Blaze, USA TODAY Sports)
1. Warriors try to finish off Rockets, join Cavs in finals
The Golden State Warriors will try to wrap up their series against the Houston Rockets on Wednesday, which would send them to Game 1 of the Finals against the Cleveland Cavaliers on June 4. The Warriors currently lead the series 3-1, after the Rockets caught fire to avoid a sweep Monday. The Cavaliers sealed their trip to the Finals with a 118-88 rout to complete their sweep of the Atlanta Hawks in the Eastern Conference finals. This will be the Cavaliers first trip to the Finals since 2007, but it will also be LeBron James' fifth consecutive trip there, making him the first player to accomplish that feat with different teams.
Houston Rockets guard James Harden (13) is defended by Golden State Warriors guard Andre Iguodala (9) during the second half in game four of the Western Conference Finals of the NBA Playoffs at Toyota Center. 
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, Thomas B. Shea-USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas B. Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas B. Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, Troy Taormina-USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: David J. Phillip, Pool photo via USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
Replay
Autoplay
2. Santorum poised to join 2016 field
Former senator and House member Rick Santorum is set to announce his candidacy at an event Wednesday in Butler County, Pa., near his boyhood home. Santorum, 57, mounted a surprisingly strong run in 2012 after languishing in polls for months leading up to the Iowa caucuses. He ultimately won in Iowa — belatedly, after Mitt Romney was initially declared the winner — and would go on to carry 10 additional states. Santorum will join a growing GOP field for 2016 that is likely to include more than a dozen candidates.
Then-congressman Rick Santorum, R-Pa., waves to the crowd while holding his 3-year-old daughter, Elizabeth, at a May 10, 1994, Senate campaign rally in Monroeville, Pa. 
(Photo: Keith B. Srakocic, AP)
(Photo: Bill Perry, Gannett News Service)
(Photo: Cliff Schiappa, AP)
(Photo: GENE J. PUSKAR, Associated Press)
(Photo: Jeff Fusco, Getty Images)
(Photo: Gene  J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Matt Rourke, AP)
(Photo: Eric Gay, AP)
(Photo: Gerald Herbert, AP)
(Photo: Jae C. Hong, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Charlie Neibergall, AP)
(Photo: H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY)
(Photo: John Taggart, European Pressphoto Agency)
(Photo: Manuel Balce Ceneta, AP)
(Photo: Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Nati Harnik, AP)
(Photo: Alonzo Adams, AP)
Replay
Autoplay
3. Iraqis to arm more Sunni fighters in battle to retake Ramadi
The U.S.-led coalition in Iraq confirmed that Iraqi security forces are engaged in an operation to retake Ramadi , with between 2,000 and 3,000 Iraqi army forces near the city, along with coalition air support. Ahmad al-Assadi, a spokesman for Iraq's Shiite militias said Ramadi, Anbar's provincial capital, is besieged from three sides by Iraqi forces with some 4,000 Sunni tribal fighters participating in the fight. Two officials from Anbar said the operation is focused on cutting off supply routes to the city first and that more Sunni fighters would be armed Wednesday to join the battle.
Iraq announced Tuesday it is renewing efforts to drive the Islamic State from western Anbar province. Without providing details, authorities said a new operation was being launched with Iraq troops supported by Shiite and Sunni forces. Wochit
4. Nebraska Senate could abolish death penalty with veto override
Gov. Pete Ricketts, R-Neb., vetoed a bill Tuesday that would have abolished capital punishment in a traditionally conservative state for the first time in more than 40 years. The state Senate will try to override that veto Wednesday. Many senators argued that they oppose the death penalty for religious reasons. Others said it was too costly and inefficient, and questioned whether government could be trusted to manage it. Thirty senators are needed to override the veto, which is a realistic number since the measure initially passed 32-15. One senator has already publicly said he has changed his position, so Ricketts only needs to convince two more to do the same.
Gov. Pete Ricketts speaks during a news conference Tuesday, accompanied by a group of state senators and other supporters, regarding his veto of a bill passed by the legislature that would repeal the death penalty in Nebraska.
 (Photo: AP/Kristin Streff, Lincoln Journal Star)
5. The Space Station's getting a bit of a makeover
NASA robotics officers on Wednesday morning plan to relocate an International Space Station storage module, the biggest change to the station's structure since its assembly was completed in 2011 . Teams in Houston will command the station's 58-foot, Canadian-built robotic arm to pull the Permanent Multi-purpose Module, or PMM, from the Unity node's Earth-facing port to the Tranquility node's forward port. It should take a few hours, with NASA TV coverage starting at 8 a.m.
The Canadarm 2 reaches out to capture the SpaceX Dragon cargo spacecraft and prepare it to be pulled into its port on the International Space Station April 17, 2015.
 (Photo: NASA, AP)
Developing story: FIFA officials held over corruption allegations at behest of U.S.
FIFA, world soccer's governing body, was rocked by a dramatic scandal on Wednesday after six officials were arrested in Switzerland and face extradition to the United States on suspicion of federal corruption charges.
FIFA president Sepp Blatter now finds his organization in a scandal following the arrest of six officials on corruption charges.
 (Photo: Fabrice Coffrini, AFP/Getty Images)
And, the essentials:
Weather: Steamy, summer-like heat will spread over the East on Wednesday while the southern Plains sees a few more showers and storms.
Stocks: Wall Street was set to open lower on Wednesday.
TV Tonight: Wondering what to watch tonight ? TV critic Robert Bianco looks at iHeartRadio Country Festival, Bullseye and The Briefcase.
You can also subscribe to get the day's top news each weekday in your inbox or find us on the Yo! app: justyo.co/usatoday .
Contributing: The Associated Press
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1HKsHsQ
This story is part of the series 5 THINGS TO KNOW


Posted: Wednesday, May 27, 2015, 1:08 AM
The championship LeBron James craves more than any other, the one he came back home to get, is within reach.
The Cavaliers are in the NBA Finals.
James scored 23 points, Kyrie Irving added 16, providing a boost after missing two games, and Cleveland reserved a spot in the Finals with a 118-88 victory over the Atlanta Hawks on Tuesday night to win the Eastern Conference title.
By sweeping the top-seeded Hawks, the Cavs earned their second trip to the Finals, where they will face either Golden State or Houston starting June 4.
More coverage
 
It will be the fifth straight visit to the league's showcase event for the inimitable James, who returned to Cleveland after four years in Miami to try to  end the city's championship drought dating to 1964. The Cavs are four wins from doing it, and if they can, James will have a title that would put him in a class by himself. Other players have won more championships, but none has ever done it for his ring-starved home region.
"We have everything it takes to win," James said after the Cavs were presented with the conference trophy.
Jeff Teague scored 17 and Paul Millsap 16 for Atlanta, which won a team-record 60 games during the regular season and made the conference finals for the first time since 1970. But the Hawks were no match for the Cavaliers and had no answer for James, who nearly averaged a triple-double in the four games.
J.R. Smith added 18 points and Tristan Thompson had 16 points and 11 rebounds for the Cavs.
Standing at center court, James turned to Smith and reminded him there was work still undone.
"Four more," James said.
The Cavs got through the last two rounds without forward Kevin Love, who suffered  a season-ending shoulder injury. His arrival last summer, joining James and Irving to form a Big Three, made Cleveland the team to beat in the East.
It didn't go exactly as planned under first-year coach David Blatt, who left his family in Israel to take the Cavs job.
"We're in Cleveland," Blatt cracked. "Nothing is easy here."
Warriors-Rockets
Stephen Curry and the Golden State Warriors get another chance to close out the Rockets on Wednesday night at home and advance to the franchise's first NBA Finals in 40 years.
"It could have been a lot worse," Curry said of his frightening fall in Game 4.
Warriors coach Steve Kerr said Curry was  doing just fine - other than the bruise on his head - and should be ready to go for Game 5.
The Rockets' Dwight Howard avoided being suspened for Game 5 when the NBA did not upgrade his flagrant 1 foul on Andrew Bogut to a flagrant 2.
We encourage respectful comments but reserve the right to delete anything that doesn't contribute to an engaging dialogue.
Help us moderate this thread by flagging comments that violate our guidelines .
Comment policy:
Philly.com comments are intended to be civil, friendly conversations. Please treat other participants with respect and in a way that you would want to be treated. You are responsible for what you say. And please, stay on topic. If you see an objectionable post, please report it to us using the "Report Abuse" option.
Please note that comments are monitored by Philly.com staff. We reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable. Personal attacks, especially on other participants, are not permitted. We reserve the right to permanently block any user who violates these terms and conditions.
 
CARS:
Newsletter
Get the latest Sports Wrap Up newsletter delivered to your email. Sign up now!

