Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning.
Post to Facebook
5 things you need to know Wednesday The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HKsHsQ
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
This story is part of the series 5 THINGS TO KNOW
Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James dunks the ball during against the Atlanta Hawks in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference Finals.
(Photo: Ken Blaze, USA TODAY Sports)
1. Warriors try to finish off Rockets, join Cavs in finals
The Golden State Warriors will try to wrap up their series against the Houston Rockets on Wednesday, which would send them to Game 1 of the Finals against the Cleveland Cavaliers on June 4. The Warriors currently lead the series 3-1, after the Rockets caught fire to avoid a sweep Monday. The Cavaliers sealed their trip to the Finals with a 118-88 rout to complete their sweep of the Atlanta Hawks in the Eastern Conference finals. This will be the Cavaliers first trip to the Finals since 2007, but it will also be LeBron James' fifth consecutive trip there, making him the first player to accomplish that feat with different teams.
Houston Rockets guard James Harden (13) is defended by Golden State Warriors guard Andre Iguodala (9) during the second half in game four of the Western Conference Finals of the NBA Playoffs at Toyota Center. 
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, Thomas B. Shea-USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas B. Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas B. Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, Troy Taormina-USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: David J. Phillip, Pool photo via USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
Replay
Autoplay
2. Santorum poised to join 2016 field
Former senator and House member Rick Santorum is set to announce his candidacy at an event Wednesday in Butler County, Pa., near his boyhood home. Santorum, 57, mounted a surprisingly strong run in 2012 after languishing in polls for months leading up to the Iowa caucuses. He ultimately won in Iowa — belatedly, after Mitt Romney was initially declared the winner — and would go on to carry 10 additional states. Santorum will join a growing GOP field for 2016 that is likely to include more than a dozen candidates.
Then-congressman Rick Santorum, R-Pa., waves to the crowd while holding his 3-year-old daughter, Elizabeth, at a May 10, 1994, Senate campaign rally in Monroeville, Pa. 
(Photo: Keith B. Srakocic, AP)
(Photo: Bill Perry, Gannett News Service)
(Photo: Cliff Schiappa, AP)
(Photo: GENE J. PUSKAR, Associated Press)
(Photo: Jeff Fusco, Getty Images)
(Photo: Gene  J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Matt Rourke, AP)
(Photo: Eric Gay, AP)
(Photo: Gerald Herbert, AP)
(Photo: Jae C. Hong, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Charlie Neibergall, AP)
(Photo: H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY)
(Photo: John Taggart, European Pressphoto Agency)
(Photo: Manuel Balce Ceneta, AP)
(Photo: Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Nati Harnik, AP)
(Photo: Alonzo Adams, AP)
Replay
Autoplay
3. Iraqis to arm more Sunni fighters in battle to retake Ramadi
The U.S.-led coalition in Iraq confirmed that Iraqi security forces are engaged in an operation to retake Ramadi , with between 2,000 and 3,000 Iraqi army forces near the city, along with coalition air support. Ahmad al-Assadi, a spokesman for Iraq's Shiite militias said Ramadi, Anbar's provincial capital, is besieged from three sides by Iraqi forces with some 4,000 Sunni tribal fighters participating in the fight. Two officials from Anbar said the operation is focused on cutting off supply routes to the city first and that more Sunni fighters would be armed Wednesday to join the battle.
Iraq announced Tuesday it is renewing efforts to drive the Islamic State from western Anbar province. Without providing details, authorities said a new operation was being launched with Iraq troops supported by Shiite and Sunni forces. Wochit
4. Nebraska Senate could abolish death penalty with veto override
Gov. Pete Ricketts, R-Neb., vetoed a bill Tuesday that would have abolished capital punishment in a traditionally conservative state for the first time in more than 40 years. The state Senate will try to override that veto Wednesday. Many senators argued that they oppose the death penalty for religious reasons. Others said it was too costly and inefficient, and questioned whether government could be trusted to manage it. Thirty senators are needed to override the veto, which is a realistic number since the measure initially passed 32-15. One senator has already publicly said he has changed his position, so Ricketts only needs to convince two more to do the same.
Gov. Pete Ricketts speaks during a news conference Tuesday, accompanied by a group of state senators and other supporters, regarding his veto of a bill passed by the legislature that would repeal the death penalty in Nebraska.
 (Photo: AP/Kristin Streff, Lincoln Journal Star)
5. The Space Station's getting a bit of a makeover
NASA robotics officers on Wednesday morning plan to relocate an International Space Station storage module, the biggest change to the station's structure since its assembly was completed in 2011 . Teams in Houston will command the station's 58-foot, Canadian-built robotic arm to pull the Permanent Multi-purpose Module, or PMM, from the Unity node's Earth-facing port to the Tranquility node's forward port. It should take a few hours, with NASA TV coverage starting at 8 a.m.
The Canadarm 2 reaches out to capture the SpaceX Dragon cargo spacecraft and prepare it to be pulled into its port on the International Space Station April 17, 2015.
 (Photo: NASA, AP)
Developing story: FIFA officials held over corruption allegations at behest of U.S.
FIFA, world soccer's governing body, was rocked by a dramatic scandal on Wednesday after six officials were arrested in Switzerland and face extradition to the United States on suspicion of federal corruption charges.
FIFA president Sepp Blatter now finds his organization in a scandal following the arrest of six officials on corruption charges.
 (Photo: Fabrice Coffrini, AFP/Getty Images)
And, the essentials:
Weather: Steamy, summer-like heat will spread over the East on Wednesday while the southern Plains sees a few more showers and storms.
Stocks: Wall Street was set to open lower on Wednesday.
TV Tonight: Wondering what to watch tonight ? TV critic Robert Bianco looks at iHeartRadio Country Festival, Bullseye and The Briefcase.
You can also subscribe to get the day's top news each weekday in your inbox or find us on the Yo! app: justyo.co/usatoday .
Contributing: The Associated Press
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1HKsHsQ
This story is part of the series 5 THINGS TO KNOW


5mDave McMenamin
None of their season was predictable, but all of it was necessary. That's how the Cavs became the Cavs, a team that has learned championship qualities.
Play2:24
36mBrian Windhorst
Even by the Jordan standard, the East has fallen under LeBron James' domination, the kind not seen since the great Celtics teams of the 1960s.
Play3:08
2hESPN Stats & Information
The difference in the series was long-range scoring. The Hawks could not replicate their regular-season success
Play3:08
5h
LeBron James scored 23 points, Kyrie Irving returned after missing two games and the Cavaliers reserved an NBA Finals spot with a rout of the Atlanta Hawks to win the Eastern Conference title.
Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images
8h
Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving started Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals after missing two games with a sore left knee.
Cavs stay true to their Finals road map
3m
Finals big for Cleveland fans
ESPN's Brad Daugherty breaks down what a trip to the NBA Finals means to the city of Cleveland.
Dave McMenamin, ESPN.com
Cavs and NBA writer for ESPN.com
Covered the Lakers and NBA for ESPNLosAngeles.com from 2009-14 and the NBA for NBA.com from 2005-09
CLEVELAND -- In the postgame locker room a couple of days before the end of the regular season, LeBron James was asked the kind of question that would usually receive a perfunctory response at best, considering the mass scrum setting.
So LeBron, the question went, what does it take to be a champion?
Rather than slip into a cliché, or hesitate to think up a worthy answer, James spoke extemporaneously coming from a place of honesty and experience.
"It takes sacrifice," James said back on April 13. "That's the ultimate thing and that's the thing that everyone talks about but no one sees it when things are hard. We know we have guys that we can rely on and our guys are really committed to sacrificing everything for them personally and for the good of the team.
After the season they've had to this point, Kyrie Irving and LeBron James had plenty to smile about on Tuesday. 
AP Photo/Ron Schwane
"If you can do that and all 15 guys are on the same page and it doesn't matter what you're doing individually, it's all about team, making the next play for your teammate, covering for your teammate, playing for your teammate (then you will succeed). Doing everything. Living, waking up for your teammate in the postseason. To become a champion, you got to do it. I think that's the ultimate."
It was the road map the Cavs would have to stay true to in order to get where they were on Tuesday, just four wins away from that aforementioned championship, thanks to a rousing 118-88 win to sweep the Atlanta Hawks out of the Eastern Conference finals.
It was describing the essence of a team and what really matters when it comes to James' chosen endeavor.
All that's happened since, from Kevin Love 's dislocated shoulder, to Kyrie Irving 's tendinitis-locked left knee, to "Del-ly! Del-ly!" chants becoming a nightly occurrence at The Q, to James' choosing the corner jump shot to do some late-game damage not once but twice, to J.R. Smith's ejection in Boston, suspension against Chicago and redemption against Atlanta, to David Blatt's defensive adjustments, to Tristan Thompson 's coming out party, to Iman Shumpert 's two-way display, to Timofey Mozgov 's rim protection, to James Jones ' triples and right on down the line. The individual instances only matter if they feed into that team essence.
"I don't know how many chapters we have in the book as far as this season, but there's at least five," James said after turning the page on Atlanta in short order by becoming the first player in the history of the NBA playoffs to average at least 30 points, 11 rebounds and nine assists in a series, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.
"Just from the start of the season to us making the transaction to acquire (Smith) and then Shump and then Timofey, to us having injuries, to us getting in the postseason, to Kevin Love being out for the postseason, to Kyrie getting banged up and being out for playoff games -- we have so many different chapters to this season that's defined who we are."
While James has been preaching the same definition of team since the beginning of training camp, his actual team has morphed almost month to month from the perception of the league's newest super squad back in October to a scrappy group that will be underdogs in the eyes of Las Vegas should they face the Golden State Warriors in the NBA Finals.
It's amazing the circuitous route life takes sometimes. If Anderson Varejao doesn't get hurt before Christmas, the Cavs might not bottom out in January and make their two roster-overhauling trades.
2015 NBA playoffs: Follow the action
Keep track of every NBA playoff series
If Love doesn't get hurt in the first round of the playoffs, maybe Thompson doesn't have his coming out party in the latter rounds, in the process revamping their up-and-down defense.
If Irving doesn't have to miss the second half of that close-out game in Chicago, maybe Matthew Dellavedova doesn't have that fill-in performance to lean on and take his game to another level against Atlanta.
"I think there's always been that feeling that it was going to happen, but we didn't know when," Dellavedova said.
For all of his championship rhetoric and a confidence and command of the game that Atlanta's Mike Budenholzer says has grown exponentially since 2007 the first time he faced James in the postseason when he was an assistant with San Antonio, James admitted that he had his doubts, too.
"Could I foresee this?" James said. "At the beginning of the season, I couldn't."
But at the beginning of the season, Irving couldn't foresee having to go through four days of round-the-clock "hell" as he called his knee rehab in between Games 2 and 4 of the Eastern Conference finals in order to "be out there for my brothers." And Smith and Shumpert couldn't foresee that being given up on by Phil Jackson would actually be a good thing. And Blatt couldn't foresee that some of the outside pressures he'd face in his rookie season in the NBA would end up actually humanizing him and make him more relatable to his team.
None of it was predictable. All of it was necessary. That's how the Cavs became the Cavs, a team that lives and breathes those sacrifice-first qualities that James said are what makes a champion.
"It's crazy, the video that's up there, 'We all come from different places,'" Irving said, referring to the Cavs' pregame video at the start of the season. "Literally and figuratively, just all the things that we've been through, individually and as a team we've been tested and now we go into the Finals together as a team having the utmost confidence."
A confidence that comes from having been through so much already that whatever lies ahead can simply not seem insurmountable.
"I can't guarantee the championship," James said. "That's not what I'm here for. I'm here to lead. But I will guarantee that we will play our asses off ... We will do that."
Just like back in April, James knew what he was talking about.
0 Shares

