Cancel
Set
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning.
Post to Facebook
5 things you need to know Wednesday The biggest and most buzzworthy news to start your morning. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1HKsHsQ
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
This story is part of the series 5 THINGS TO KNOW
Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James dunks the ball during against the Atlanta Hawks in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference Finals.
(Photo: Ken Blaze, USA TODAY Sports)
1. Warriors try to finish off Rockets, join Cavs in finals
The Golden State Warriors will try to wrap up their series against the Houston Rockets on Wednesday, which would send them to Game 1 of the Finals against the Cleveland Cavaliers on June 4. The Warriors currently lead the series 3-1, after the Rockets caught fire to avoid a sweep Monday. The Cavaliers sealed their trip to the Finals with a 118-88 rout to complete their sweep of the Atlanta Hawks in the Eastern Conference finals. This will be the Cavaliers first trip to the Finals since 2007, but it will also be LeBron James' fifth consecutive trip there, making him the first player to accomplish that feat with different teams.
Houston Rockets guard James Harden (13) is defended by Golden State Warriors guard Andre Iguodala (9) during the second half in game four of the Western Conference Finals of the NBA Playoffs at Toyota Center. 
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, Thomas B. Shea-USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas B. Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Thomas B. Shea, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Troy Taormina, Troy Taormina-USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: David J. Phillip, Pool photo via USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports)
(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
Replay
Autoplay
2. Santorum poised to join 2016 field
Former senator and House member Rick Santorum is set to announce his candidacy at an event Wednesday in Butler County, Pa., near his boyhood home. Santorum, 57, mounted a surprisingly strong run in 2012 after languishing in polls for months leading up to the Iowa caucuses. He ultimately won in Iowa — belatedly, after Mitt Romney was initially declared the winner — and would go on to carry 10 additional states. Santorum will join a growing GOP field for 2016 that is likely to include more than a dozen candidates.
Then-congressman Rick Santorum, R-Pa., waves to the crowd while holding his 3-year-old daughter, Elizabeth, at a May 10, 1994, Senate campaign rally in Monroeville, Pa. 
(Photo: Keith B. Srakocic, AP)
(Photo: Bill Perry, Gannett News Service)
(Photo: Cliff Schiappa, AP)
(Photo: GENE J. PUSKAR, Associated Press)
(Photo: Jeff Fusco, Getty Images)
(Photo: Gene  J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Matt Rourke, AP)
(Photo: Eric Gay, AP)
(Photo: Gerald Herbert, AP)
(Photo: Jae C. Hong, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP)
(Photo: Charlie Neibergall, AP)
(Photo: H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY)
(Photo: John Taggart, European Pressphoto Agency)
(Photo: Manuel Balce Ceneta, AP)
(Photo: Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP)
(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)
(Photo: Nati Harnik, AP)
(Photo: Alonzo Adams, AP)
Replay
Autoplay
3. Iraqis to arm more Sunni fighters in battle to retake Ramadi
The U.S.-led coalition in Iraq confirmed that Iraqi security forces are engaged in an operation to retake Ramadi , with between 2,000 and 3,000 Iraqi army forces near the city, along with coalition air support. Ahmad al-Assadi, a spokesman for Iraq's Shiite militias said Ramadi, Anbar's provincial capital, is besieged from three sides by Iraqi forces with some 4,000 Sunni tribal fighters participating in the fight. Two officials from Anbar said the operation is focused on cutting off supply routes to the city first and that more Sunni fighters would be armed Wednesday to join the battle.
Iraq announced Tuesday it is renewing efforts to drive the Islamic State from western Anbar province. Without providing details, authorities said a new operation was being launched with Iraq troops supported by Shiite and Sunni forces. Wochit
4. Nebraska Senate could abolish death penalty with veto override
Gov. Pete Ricketts, R-Neb., vetoed a bill Tuesday that would have abolished capital punishment in a traditionally conservative state for the first time in more than 40 years. The state Senate will try to override that veto Wednesday. Many senators argued that they oppose the death penalty for religious reasons. Others said it was too costly and inefficient, and questioned whether government could be trusted to manage it. Thirty senators are needed to override the veto, which is a realistic number since the measure initially passed 32-15. One senator has already publicly said he has changed his position, so Ricketts only needs to convince two more to do the same.
Gov. Pete Ricketts speaks during a news conference Tuesday, accompanied by a group of state senators and other supporters, regarding his veto of a bill passed by the legislature that would repeal the death penalty in Nebraska.
 (Photo: AP/Kristin Streff, Lincoln Journal Star)
5. The Space Station's getting a bit of a makeover
NASA robotics officers on Wednesday morning plan to relocate an International Space Station storage module, the biggest change to the station's structure since its assembly was completed in 2011 . Teams in Houston will command the station's 58-foot, Canadian-built robotic arm to pull the Permanent Multi-purpose Module, or PMM, from the Unity node's Earth-facing port to the Tranquility node's forward port. It should take a few hours, with NASA TV coverage starting at 8 a.m.
The Canadarm 2 reaches out to capture the SpaceX Dragon cargo spacecraft and prepare it to be pulled into its port on the International Space Station April 17, 2015.
 (Photo: NASA, AP)
Developing story: FIFA officials held over corruption allegations at behest of U.S.
FIFA, world soccer's governing body, was rocked by a dramatic scandal on Wednesday after six officials were arrested in Switzerland and face extradition to the United States on suspicion of federal corruption charges.
FIFA president Sepp Blatter now finds his organization in a scandal following the arrest of six officials on corruption charges.
 (Photo: Fabrice Coffrini, AFP/Getty Images)
And, the essentials:
Weather: Steamy, summer-like heat will spread over the East on Wednesday while the southern Plains sees a few more showers and storms.
Stocks: Wall Street was set to open lower on Wednesday.
TV Tonight: Wondering what to watch tonight ? TV critic Robert Bianco looks at iHeartRadio Country Festival, Bullseye and The Briefcase.
You can also subscribe to get the day's top news each weekday in your inbox or find us on the Yo! app: justyo.co/usatoday .
Contributing: The Associated Press
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1HKsHsQ
This story is part of the series 5 THINGS TO KNOW


Sam Amico
+
Gregory Shamus / Getty Images
 
Share This Story
     
CLEVELAND -- Random dribbles from the Cavaliers ' 118-88 victory over the visiting Atlanta Hawks in the Eastern Conference finals Tuesday:
1. Three series, two sweeps, and a 12-2 postseason record overall. How ya like that, Cavs fans?
2. This was the easiest of the bunch, as the Hawks led for a whopping 20 seconds. It was over at the end of the first quarter. It was 48 minutes of garbage time. It was Kyrie Irving returning after a two-game absence and the Cavs at their finest.
3. The Cavs are the first team to reach the Finals this season. For the Cavs and their fans, that has to feel good just to say. Think about all this team has been through. Think about all the rumors and allegations thrown the Cavs' way. Think about the 19-20 start, the constant chatter surrounding coach David Blatt, the talk of LeBron James losing a step.
4. Think about Anderson Varejao (remember him?) getting injured and being out for the season, then Kevin Love being out for the postseason. Think about how this team started the year with Dion Waiters, then Shawn Marion, then someone else, at shooting guard. Then about how this team had James -- yet nothing seemed to click.
5. Think about all that, then think about how good this must feel for the Cavs. They might not be the type to say, "I told you so," at least not until they win a championship. But I do remember LeBron begging fans to "relax" on Twitter. It really was that bad. The star of the team had to tell fans to calm down. That's how much noise (and nonsense) has surrounded this team.
6. LeBron broke it all down: "To see us at 19-20 and watching my team struggle and me sitting out two weeks (with injuries), they wanted Coach Blatt fired, said we needed another point guard ... So many storylines were happening. For us to be sitting here today, representing the Eastern Conference in the Finals, this is special. It's very special."
7. Then a lot of things went right after general manager David Griffin pulled two midseason trades. He shipped out Waiters and some draft picks, and brought in J.R. Smith, Iman Shumpert and Timofey Mozgov. And by "things went right," I mean the Cavs simply dominated. Credit the trades, the good health of James, and the likes of Irving and Tristan Thompson finding their way. Just when it seemed like everything would fall apart, the Cavs came together.
8. Blatt had a little something to do with that, too. People hate to admit that. Too many fans question his every move, his every motive, his every substation and starting lineup. They really want to believe James doesn't want to play for him, or that Blatt will eventually be exposed for being something other than extraordinary coach. Why? Because he doesn't coach the team like they would. Instead, he coaches it like a winner.
9. So, can this Cavs team win a championship? They'll play either Houston or Golden State -- probably the latter, actually. The Warriors are the opposite of the Cavs in the eyes of the basketball-loving public. They have a really cool and exciting superstar Stephen Curry, a really cool and fun-loving coach in Steve Kerr, and if you ask me, some pretty cool uniforms and team colors, too.
10. The Warriors are also remarkably explosive. They play pretty, unselfish and electrifying basketball. They don't give up leads (they're 53-0 when up by at least 15 points) and they can come back in the swish of a 3-pointer (they recently beat New Orleans despite trailing by 20 points entering the fourth quarter).
11. LeBron on the Cavs' chances: "I cannot guarantee anything. I can't guarantee the championship. That's not what I'm here for. I'm here to lead. But I will guarantee we will play our asses off. We will from the first minute to minute 48, or if it's overtime, minute 53. We will do that. At the end of the day, that's all I can ask for. That's all we can give."
12. For the record, I'm not guaranteeing anything, either. I will say if the Cavs defend and rebound like they've done lately, they'll have a great shot. The Warriors are superior offensively to any team the Cavs have faced in the playoffs. So are the Rockets , for that matter.
13. But neither has seen a defense like the Cavs. Neither has seen a guy who chases down offensive rebounds like Thompson. Neither has faced anyone as annoying (in a good way) as Matthew Dellavedova . And neither has a superstar with the Finals experience of LeBron James.
14. Still, all that talk is for another day. All that talk will eventually turn into the real thing, and will only be proven on the floor, in a best-of-seven series. Other than that, it's all just talk. And guess what? When it comes to this Cavs team, talk and Twitter and fan reaction (and overreaction) do not matter. These Cavs are here, and being here is proof enough that they belong.
0 Comments
You may use your Facebook account to add a comment on FoxSports.com , subject to Facebook's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Your Facebook name, photo, other personal information you make public on Facebook and comment will appear on FoxSports.com , and may be used on Fox Sports' other media platforms. Any questions?
FOXSports.com >
Other FOX Sites >
©2015 Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

