Nevada Senate approves minimum wage raise bill
CARSON CITY — A Republican-backed bill to overhaul Nevada’s overtime law and raise the minimum wage for some workers was approved Friday by the state Senate on a party-line vote, with Democrats calling the measure a “slap in the face” to the operating...
CARSON CITY — A Republican-backed bill to overhaul Nevada’s overtime law and raise the minimum wage for some workers was approved Friday by the state Senate on a party-line vote, with Democrats calling the measure a “slap in the face” to the operating poor.
The vote on Senate Bill 193 was 11-9. It now goes to the Assembly, exactly where passage is uncertain.
The bill would do away with a provision in Nevada’s overtime law that workers be paid at time-and-one particular-half for hours worked in excess of eight hours within a 24-hour period. As an alternative, overtime would kick in just after 40 hours worked in 1 week.
The law does not apply to larger wage earners or these covered below collective bargaining agreements.
Democrats argued the modify would hurt quite a few element-time low-wage earners by requiring them to operate longer hours without the need of overtime compensation.
“What they are asking us to do as a state is trade a 75-cent wage increase for overtime spend benefits,” stated state Sen. Kelvin Atkinson, D-Las Vegas. “I assume it’s a slap in the face to our workers.”
4 separate amendments pitched by the Democratic minority had been rejected on celebration-line votes.
“If we pass this bill without the need of amending it, it’s a spend cut for all men and women operating much more than eight hours a day and much less than 40 hours a week,” Atkinson stated. He said roughly 350,000 Nevadans at the moment qualify for overtime below existing law, and quite a few of those do not work 40 hours in a week.
SB193 originally addressed only the overtime law. Several smaller business enterprise owners argued that eliminating overtime for a lot more than eight hours inside 24 hours would give them flexibility in scheduling and support personnel by enabling them to operate much more hours or juggle their time.
But a surprise amendment inserted in March by the Senate Committee on Commerce, Labor and Power to also raise Nevada’s minimum wage to $9 an hour if employers do not give health insurance coverage caught Democrats off guard.
State Sen. Patricia Farley, R-Las Vegas, made the surprise proposal to insert the minimum wage improve.
“Business owners pay either way, in the taxes for welfare services or you can spend someone who shows up to function,” Farley, owner of a construction firm, mentioned in an earlier interview. “I would rather pay an individual to show up for work.”
She calculated a $9 per hour minimum wage would mean $130 far more per month for most low-wage workers.
The current minimum wage is $7.25 for workers who are provided wellness care coverage and $eight.25 for these with no workplace policies.
Nevada voters in 2006 approved a constitutional amendment setting the state minimum wage at $1 above the federal minimum wage if no employer-paid health coverage is supplied.
SB193 would only raise the minimum wage for those workers who are not supplied employer-paid insurance coverage coverage. The rate would stay at $7.25 per hour for those with access to employer-paid policies.
Democrats attempted unsuccessfully to amend the bill to raise both minimum wage tiers to $ten.10 and $9.10 $9.50 and $8.50 and $9 and $8, based on no matter whether insurance is supplied. Every failed 11-9.
A different proposal requiring overtime right after ten hours in a day also was rejected.
Senate Majority Leader Michael Roberson, R-Henderson, did not permit floor debate on the amendments, utilizing his leadership to get in touch with for votes upon their introduction and explanation.
Democrats have also introduced their personal proposal to raise the minimum wage. A single would amend the state constitution to raise the rate to $15 per hour, but chances of these passing below a GOP majority are unlikely.
Speak to Sandra Chereb at schereb@reviewjournal.com or 775-687-3901. Obtain her on Twitter: @SandraChereb
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
03 April 2015 Friday 19:25
6 views
WARNING: Please don't insult others in your comments or care others rights.

