Election Pits Liberals Against Jewish Establishment
Getty Images
Jew Vs. Jesus? Jesus “Chuy” Garcia and Mayor Rahm Emanuel face off in Tuesday’s general election for Chicago mayor.
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel is in a race to retain his job against Jesus “Chuy” Garcia, a career politician with strong ties to Chicago’s progressive community. And, the upcoming Chicago mayoral election being held on Tuesday, April 7, has been characterized by some as Jews for Jesus versus Jews for “Mayor 1 Percent.”
After ailing Chicago Teachers Union president Karen Lewis chose not to run, Garcia was drafted for the “anybody but Rahm” ticket and emerged as Emanuel’s challenger when the mayor couldn’t capture 50 percent of the vote against four other candidates February 24, forcing the April election. And this despite spending almost $7 million in television ads, half of what he raised for the first vote, and now at more than $30 million since 2011 for his total re-election effort. Garcia has raised about $4.6 million, mostly from teachers unions and the Service Employees International Union.
At their final debate, held on Tuesday, March 31, Emanuel pulled out the Jewish card by characterizing Garcia as “Hanukkah Harry” for offering a list of expensive proposals without explaining how he would find the necessary revenue. “Such a deal!” Emanuel blurted our. And the Chicago Reader has bolstered Emanuel’s Jewish street cred when it turned up a five-second appearance by the 18-year-old Emanuel protesting during a 1978 city-approved neo-Nazi rally captured in the short documentary “Marquette Park II,” by Tom Palazzolo and Mark Rance, about one of the city’s historically white ethnic neighborhoods.
For the city’s Jewish population the choice is not about being a Jewish voter but about whether Emanuel represents Jewish-style politics — despite his years as a congressman, and chief of staff to Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, respectively, with a two-and-a-half-year stint in between as an investment banker.
Even some Jews who support Emanuel say they simply don’t like him. One Jewish donor who has been a leading and decades-long contributor to local and national Democrats, including being among the first in the 1983 campaign to elect Harold Washington as Chicago’s first African-American mayor, told me that she doesn’t feel Emanuel “represents us very well.” Still, she adds, “Rahm can get the smartest people on Earth to help this city solve its problems. Don’t we want that?”
For other Jews that sounds patronizing. Marguerite Horberg has been politically and culturally active in Chicago for decades and is organizing throughout the city for Garcia. She sees Garcia’s candidacy squarely within her longtime Jewish political posture for “equal rights, women’s rights, and social justice. For progressives, ’Chuy’ is that candidate.”
This is the first contested mayoral election in Chicago in over two decades, since Mayor Richard M. Daley opted out after he generally defalcated the third largest city in America over 22 years partially through what has been characterized as reckless borrowing and privatization. Daley still enjoys a positive reputation — even after plunging Chicago’s debt rating, now at Baa2, only two places above “junk” status (the fifth drop during Emanuel’s term). Emanuel was a major fundraiser for Daley, though now they’re in a weird pas de deux as Emanuel often criticizes “the way things were done” before he became mayor without mentioning Daley by name. Daley has endorsed Emanuel.
One member of the Daley family, who has asked not to be named, remembers Emanuel’s well-honed profane hamishness: Not long after winning his first term and, seeing the horror of the city’s finances, telling this person at a sports event, “Please tell [Rich Daley]: ‘Thanks for leaving me a sh-t sandwich of an administration.’”
For his part, Garcia is solidly within the progressive/liberal community of people — many of them Jewish — who helped energize and fund the 1983 campaign of Harold Washington to defeat former state legislator Bernard Epton (also Jewish). As an alderman, Garcia worked with Washington and helped deliver votes for Washington’s policies.
The split between the city’s roughly 90,000 Jews can be viewed as a “progressive versus establishment Jewish family feud.” Among Emanuel’s supporters are several of the city’s most prominent Jewish families, including the Pritzkers and Crowns as well as others, incluing Emanuel compadre Michael Saks of Grosvenor Capital Management.
Perhaps it might be more accurate to say it’s a J Street versus AIPAC situation. Garcia is supported by Progressives for Chuy — a collaboration by MoveOn, Daily Kos, Democracy for America, Progressive Change Campaign Committee, and Working Families, among others.
Emanuel’s campaign has also drawn money from Hollywood, courtesy of his younger brother, Ari, the co-C.E.O. of a dominant talent agency who is thusly described in Vanity Fair magazine: “Generally seen as the inspiration for Ari Gold, the crass, overbearing talent agent played by Jeremy Piven on the HBO series Entourage, Emanuel is known for in-your-face tactics that are extreme even by Hollywood standards.”
Plenty of Chicagoans will say the same of Rahm, who is short and fit and, in person, hardly looks intimidating.
With the most recent polling shows Emanuel with a 28 percent lead, 58 to 30 percent, maybe it’s more like David versus Goliath.
Ronald Litke is a Chicago-based writer and host of the weekly ‘Dialogue’ interview program on Rivet Radio.
Jon Stewart says Easter is infinitely more exciting than Passover. Don't believe him? Just watch — he nails it!
"It's the strangest Passover story I've ever heard. But is it true? Did Cherokee Indians lift a tactic straight out of the Book of Exodus?"  Find out in this must-read graphic story about the first Jew to die in the Revolutionary War!
Escaping forced labor, trekking through the Sinai, and struggling to find refuge in Israel: that’s not just the Passover narrative — it’s also the story of Tekle, an African refugee.
After visiting the national Jewish museums of Lithuania and Morocco, Jonathan Katz says both are very worth seeing — but for very different reasons.
Liberals slammed Indiana’s religious freedom law as backdoor bigotry. But Michael Helfand explains why its benefits far outweigh the risks — especially for minorities like the Jews.
What exactly was Abraham Lincoln’s greatest legacy? For starters, he moved us irrevocably away from the idea of "Christian America."
"My wife has become more interested in Judaism and this year she asked me if I would observe Passover, meaning abstain from leavened bread. I am being asked to do something I didn’t sign up for. Do I just suck it up?"  Vote for the best advice on this week's #Seesaw column:
Of Joe Biden, the Heimlich Maneuver and 8 other facts about (Jewish) Delaware.
A new book defends Lewis Carroll against accusations of pedophilia. But Benjamin Ivry asks why it leaves his controversial statements about Jews unexplained.
"I experienced direct anti-Semitism in my youth. Sterling Cooper is modeled on my high school. Of the 120 kids in my class there were 20 Jews and people would talk about how the school was half Jewish."  The last season of Mad Men starts tomorrow!
The new season of Salem l WGN America premiers tomorrow at 10/9C! Actor Iddo Goldberg  dishes on witches, the new season and why he loves Passover.
Morris Dickstein humorously revisits his youth in a new memoir, tracing his journey from his childhood as a Lower East Side yeshiva boy to distinguished Columbia professor.
The rumor that Lincoln’s assassin belonged to a family of Spanish Jewish ancestry has been around for a while.   Historians Jonathan D. Sarna and Benjamin Shapell dig deeper.
Nearly 18 years after his death, photographer Gerald Davis is coming into focus. A new exhibit includes shots of Woody Allen and Liz Taylor, as well as Jewish life in Palm Beach.
Happy Passover! Apparently, for some of us, the ideal seder looks more like a man cave: scotch, ribs and plenty of guy talk. Would you go to a man Seder?
Your Name:
E-mail Address:
to keep me informed of developments daily.
Weekly: Just send me the weekly highlights
every Friday.
Check back later for additional metropolitan areas.
Forward Thinking: A weekly email focusing on the world of Jewish ideas and opinion, exploring provocative topics and offering diverse viewpoints on issues of the day.
Food & Drink: A weekly email with the best of our food stories and recipes, plus links to great pieces from around the web.
Arts & Entertainment: A weekly email featuring the best of our cultural coverage, including links to Forward blog posts with the latest entertainment news.
The Sisterhood: A weekly newsletter featuring all the most provocative and important stories about Jewish women and gender.
18 Holidays: One Wondering Jew: A multimedia feature that tracks Abigail Pogrebin’s avid, unpredictable adventure through every Jewish holiday of the year.
Yiddish Daily Forward / דער פֿאָרווערטס הײַנט: The latest Yiddish articles, blog posts, videos and podcasts from the Forverts, delivered to you five days a week.
Oyneg Shabes / עונג־שבת: A weekly email presenting Yiddish tales, jokes, songs and videos to launch an enjoyable family Sabbath.
Vayter / ווײַטער: A biweekly blog presenting original Yiddish articles, fiction, essays, videos and art by young writers and artists.
We will not share your e-mail address or other personal information.
The Forward occasionally sends promotional e-mails to our subscribers on behalf of selected sponsors, whose advertising supports our independent journalism. We hope you will look at their messages and find their offers interesting to you, but if you would like to opt out of receiving them, please uncheck this box.
You've successfully signed up!
Thank you for subscribing.
Please provide the following optional information to enable us to serve you better.
The Forward will not sell or share your personal information with any other party.
First Name:
Last Name:
Middle Name:
Suffix Name:
Address 1:
Address 2:
Do you subscribe to the print edition of The Forward?
Yes
No
Thank you for signing up.

