Marijuana legalization finds favor
Quinnipiac poll says over 50 percent of state supports concept
BY TOM TROY
BLADE POLITICS WRITER
Quinnipiac, an independent Connecticut-based polling institute that regularly surveys Ohio voters, found that 52 percent support allowing possession of a small amount of marijuana for personal use, while 44 percent oppose.
The answer was consistent with what Quinnipiac found in February, 2014, when 51 percent supported legalization, while 44 percent were opposed.
The new poll shows that Ohio voters overwhelmingly approve marijuana for medical use by 84 to 15 percent, but at a lower rate than a year ago when 87 percent supported medical marijuana and 11 percent opposed it.
Ohio voters might face a question about the drug on the Nov. 3 ballot.
ResponsibleOhio, a Columbus organization, is collecting signatures to propose an amendment to the state Constitution that would allow adults 21 and older to possess up to an ounce of marijuana.
The plan would create 10 licensed growing facilities in Ohio, including one in Toledo. Some 1,100 licenses would be awarded for processing and retailing of marijuana. Individuals would be allowed to grow four plants at home, if the amendment passes.
Ian James, executive director of ResponsibleOhio, said Quinnipiac’s poll shows no erosion of support from last year.
“It also shows Ohioans realize prohibition is a failure and they want to see a change,” Mr. James said. He said the campaign in its first week last week collected more than 50,000 signatures. The campaign must turn in at least 305,591 signatures of Ohio registered voters by July 1 to get on the November ballot.
He said the organization’s internal polling shows a higher level of support than Quinnipiac’s poll, and that support is especially strong among younger voters.
Quinnipiac did not break out support by age. However, it found that Democrats, independents, and men in general are more likely to support full legalization than Republicans or women in general. However, women were slightly more likely to support medical marijuana legalization than men.
The plan for the 10 licensed growing facilities, which are identified by specific land parcel in the proposed amendment and which are already owned or under contract to investors who are contributing to ResponsibleOhio’s campaign, has aroused opposition from some who support legalization but want more freedom to grow pot, and from opponents who contend the plan is a money grab.
Mr. James said internal polling shows that the campaign can overcome that opposition.
“In our polling, the specifics of the amendment actually increase the support,” Mr. James said. “We don’t test just the feel-good, we test the arguments of the opposition, the nastiest and most negative things they can ever say about the amendment, and we still come out winning in the polls.”
Marcie Seidel, executive director of the Drug Free Action Alliance, which opposes the legalization of pot, said she believes the number of supporters will shrink once voters focus on the proposed amendment.
“It’s already decriminalized in Ohio and you just get a slap on the hand for having 150 joints in your personal possession,” Ms. Seidel said.
Possession of 100 grams or less is a minor misdemeanor carrying no jail time and a fine of up to $150, though there could be other consequences of a conviction. A spokesman for state Attorney General Mike DeWine said marijuana possession and distribution is still illegal and there are crimes associated with it.
“We’re looking at commercializing in the biggest form. Once they understand how it will impact our communities and neighborhoods, I think it’s a number that works in our favor,” Ms. Seidel said.
Though Drug Free Action Alliance is speaking against the proposed amendment, no organization has formed yet to campaign against the question, Ms. Seidel said.
Quinnipiac surveyed 1,077 Ohio voters in mid-to-late March. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percent.
A ballot issue similar to Ohio’s is being proposed in Michigan for the 2016 election.
Contact Tom Troy:  tomtroy@theblade.com  or 419-724-6058 or on Twitter @TomFTroy .
Recommended for You
Guidelines: Please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent. If a comment violates these standards or our privacy statement or visitor's agreement , click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report abuse. To post comments, you must be a Facebook member. To find out more, please visit the FAQ .
Your e-mail:
Your Name:
Friends e-mail:
Friends Name:
Copyright 2015 The Blade. All rights reserved. This material may not be copied or distributed without permission.
Copyright 2015 The Blade. By using this service, you accept the terms of our privacy statement and our visitor agreement . Please read them.
The Toledo Blade Company, 541 N. Superior St.,     Toledo, OH 43660, (419) 724-6000
To contact a specific department or an individual person, click here .
The Toledo Times ®

