GoMemphis
Back
Lifestyle
Back
Katie Fretland
3 mins ago
Previous
Next
April 4, 2015 — Hundreds take part in a commemorative march form Mason Temple to the National Civil Rights Museum in remembrance of the 47th anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination. In 1968, the night before his death, King gave his famous “I’ve Been to the Mountaintop” speech to a crowd gathered at the Mason Temple in support of the Memphis Sanitation Strike. (Mark Weber/The Commercial Appeal)
Mark Weber
April 4, 2015 — Easter Hughes (middle) sings spiritual hymns with a crowd gathered at the National Civil Rights Museum in remembrance of the death of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who was killed by an assassinon the balcony of the Lorraine Motel 47 years ago. The hundreds gathered outside the museum listen to a audio recording of King’s famous “I’ve Been to the Mountaintop” speech while the Memphis Symphony Orchestra played in the background. (Mark Weber/The Commercial Appeal)
Mark Weber
Show Caption
Hide Caption
Previous
Next
Hundreds gathered Saturday on the brick plaza and lawn in front of the Lorraine Motel where Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated 47 years earlier .
Members of the crowd, some holding signs reading “family,” “peace” and “economic development,” sang, clapped and raised their hands toward the sky. Nearby, the white and red wreath hung on the balcony of Room 306. In front of the balcony was the stone marker inscribed with King’s name and the Bible passage “They said one to another, behold, here cometh the dreamer … let us slay him … we shall see what will become of his dreams.”
Hundreds had marched to the motel, the site of the National Civil Rights Museum, from the Mason Temple, where King gave the “Mountaintop speech” the night before his death in 1968 in support of striking sanitation workers.
“Somewhere I read that the greatness of America is the right to protest for right,” King said in that speech. “And so just as I say we aren’t going to let any dogs or water hoses turn us around, we aren’t going to let any injunction turn us around. We are going on!”
Jerry Taylor, standing outside the museum on Saturday, said he was 17 years old and a student at Bartlett High School when King was assassinated and the governor called the National Guard to Memphis.
“It was a sad day, because (King) was a great man and it was like the dreams that he had, when he died, it looked like they died with him,” he said. “As a younger person that’s what I thought. The hope was gone. But really it wasn’t.”
Ira Nelson, a 73-year-old man from Senatobia, Mississippi, sitting on a bench in front of the museum, recalled hearing the news of King’s death when he was living in Downtown Memphis as a young man.
“I was at the house,” he said. “I don’t know if it was radio or television. And it came across.”
Nelson said “a lot of hurt and grief” ensued.
“I admired him,” Nelson said. “The courage that he had.”
“It’s still alive,” Nelson said of King’s dream. “Maybe we haven’t progressed to the fullest but we have progressed ... It’s wonderful when I sit and look at my kids and see the freedom they have that I didn’t have. We were very mistreated as a people. Yes we were.”
Terri Lee Freeman, the president of the National Civil Rights Museum , said parts of King’s dream “have come to pass and I think that we can certainly say many of the legal barriers that existed are gone,” she said.
“We can also say that when we look specifically at African-Americans that there are more professionals, there are many CEOs, there is a lot of progress and of course we have to say that we have an African American president,” she said.
“Now after we say all of that, we have to look at the social issues. And some of the social issues that he spoke of have in fact gotten worse. The wealth gap has broadened. Here in Memphis we have almost one out of every two children in poverty, and it’s harder to get out of poverty than it ever has been.”
Copyright 2015 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Subscribe to The Commercial Appeal
Ready to subscribe to The Commercial Appeal? Choose an option below.
Need Help? Call us at 1-888-789-0831.
Monday-Friday: 6am-5pm / Saturday: 6:30am-11:30am / Sunday: 6am-1pm
Comments
Want to participate in the conversation? Log in or become a subscriber today.  Subscribers can read and comment on any story, anytime.  Non-subscribers will only be able to view comments on select stories.
Trending stories

