AUSTIN, Texas (AP) — Rep. Stuart Spitzer says he was a 29-year-old virgin. He wants more Texans to be like him.
The first-term Republican from Kaufman successfully amended the House version of the state budget to shift $3 million from programs to prevent HIV to abstinence education initiatives, saying: "My goal is for everyone to be abstinent until they are married."
A physician, Spitzer met his wife Shari while doing his residency and volunteered: "I've only had sex with one woman in my life, and that's my wife."
When Houston Democratic Rep. Harold Dutton inquired from the floor, "Is that the first woman you asked?" Spitzer responded that that didn't seem to him like an appropriate question — and his colleagues agreed since a normally routine motion to have the debate recorded in writing failed.
Though awkward, the amendment was a win for Spitzer — but it may yet get removed from the final budget approved by both the House and Senate.
___
University of Texas Regent Wallace Hall
___
Tea Party Provocateurs
___
Rep. Yvonne Davis, D-Dallas
___
School Voucher Plans
The Senate Education Committee has yet to approve to the full chamber voucher bills allowing families to get state funding to pull their children out of struggling public schools and send them to private or religious alternatives. While there's still time, many thought it would have happened by now — especially since Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick has championed the idea. Unlike last session, the House didn't include an amendment in its budget declaring that public money should stay with public schools. But that's because Democrats say they already have enough support among rural and moderate Republicans to ensure a Senate-backed plan will never clear the lower chamber. Voucher plans must still make it out of committee and the Senate before they can take their chances in the House, though.
Posted in Texas on Saturday, April 4, 2015 8:15 am. Updated: 11:00 am.
Custom Search
Having a pet is a lot of responsibility, and we’ll help by giving you lots of tips and tricks! More >>
Copyright © 2015
The contents of this website may not be reproduced without written permission from The Brownsville Herald. All rights reserved. 1135 E. Van Buren St, Brownsville, TX 78520 | (956) 542-4301

