Recent
Recent
Lastest Entertainment News
Recent
Saved
4 hours ago  •  Rick Bowmer
Civil Dialogue
We provide this community forum for readers to exchange ideas and opinions on the news of the day. Passionate views, pointed criticism and critical thinking are welcome. Name-calling, crude language and personal abuse are not welcome. Moderators will monitor comments with an eye toward maintaining a high level of civility in this forum. Our comment policy explains the rules of the road for registered commenters. If you receive an error after submitting a comment, please contact us.
If your comment was not approved, perhaps:
1. You called someone an idiot, a racist, a dope, a moron, etc. Please, no name-calling or profanity (or veiled profanity -- #$%^&*).
2. You rambled, failed to stay on topic or exhibited troll-like behavior intended to hijack the discussion at hand.
3. YOU SHOUTED YOUR COMMENT IN ALL CAPS. This is hard to read and annoys readers.
4. You have issues with a business. Have a bad meal? Feel you were overcharged at the store? New car is a lemon? Contact the business directly with your customer service concerns.
5. You believe the newspaper's coverage is unfair. It would be better to write the editor at editor@helenair.com. This is a forum for community discussion, not for media criticism. We'd rather address your concerns directly.
6. You included an e-mail address or phone number, pretended to be someone you aren't or offered a comment that makes no sense.
7. You accused someone of a crime or assigned guilt or punishment to someone suspected of a crime.
8. Your comment is in really poor taste.
9. Don't write a novel. If your comment is longer than the article you're commenting on, you might want to cut it down a bit. Lengthy comments will likely be removed.
Add Comment
Featured Offers & Deals
Call me today!
Apply online at www.westaffmt.com.
Located near:
Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .
×
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with helenair.com account:
Username & Password Required!

