Published May 27, 2015
Baltimore, MD (SportsNetwork.com) - Jason Castro's go-ahead RBI double in top of the seventh inning helped the Houston Astros beat the Baltimore Orioles 4-1 on Tuesday night in the second game of a three-game series.
Scott Feldman (4-4) allowed a run on four hits and three walks over six innings for the Astros, who have won three of their last four games.
"We play complete games and that's the best way for me to describe it," said Houston manager A.J. Hinch. "They give us 27 outs and we maximize all of them the best we can."
Chris Tillman (2-6) surrendered two runs on five hits and three walks over seven frames for Baltimore, which has dropped three of its last four.
"There's a lot of positives tonight with the way I was able to execute pitches," said Tillman. "I was able to work all four pitches well and there's some positive things for me to take away from this."
Chris Davis' sacrifice fly in the bottom of the sixth opened the scoring, but the Astros answered with two runs in the seventh and added two more in the eighth to go ahead.
Evan Gattis led off the seventh with a double and after Colby Rasmus struck out, moved to third on a Luis Valbuena groundout. Chris Carter deposited a base hit to left to bring Gattis home and Castro ripped his double into the gap in right-center to give Houston a 2-1 edge.
George Springer doubled and Jose Altuve singled to put runners on the corners to start the eighth. Altuve then stole second, but Preston Tucker rolled one to the mound and Tommy Hunter went to third, allowing the Orioles to tag out Springer in a rundown. Gattis then bounced one to a drawn-in J.J. Hardy at shortstop and he nabbed Altuve at the plate.
Brian Matusz, appealing an eight-game suspension for having a foreign substance on his arm during Saturday's game against Miami, came on for Hunter.
He walked Colby Rasmus to load the bases and Valbuena lined a single to right, pushing across pinch-runner Jake Marisnick and Gattis to extend Houston's margin to 4-1.
Earlier, the Orioles had opportunities to score in the third and fourth innings.
They had runners on first and second with one out in the third, but Marwin Gonzalez made a nifty backhanded stab of a Manny Machado roller in the hole and threw to Altuve at second to start a 6-4-3 double play.
Adam Jones and Jimmy Paredes stole second and third respectively with two outs in the fourth, but Delmon Young lined out to Tucker in left field to end the threat.
Game Notes
Altuve's steal was his 15th of the season ... Houston was 3-for-9 with runners in scoring position, while Baltimore finished 0-for-5 ... Paredes had three of Baltimore's five hits.
Advertisement

