Haberkip NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — When additional than 70,000 gun enthusiasts descend on Nashville for the National Rifle Association's annual meeting this week, they will not be hearing from a single prominent Tennessean: Republican Gov. Bill Haslam.NRA spokeswoman...
AP News - Tennessee governor not among army of speakers at NRA event
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — When additional than 70,000 gun enthusiasts descend on Nashville for the National Rifle Association's annual meeting this week, they will not be hearing from a single prominent Tennessean: Republican Gov. Bill Haslam.NRA spokeswoman...
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — When additional than 70,000 gun enthusiasts descend on Nashville for the National Rifle Association's annual meeting this week, they will not be hearing from a single prominent Tennessean: Republican Gov. Bill Haslam.
NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker commended the governor's office for assisting bring the convention to Tennessee. But she stated the NRA was unable to accommodate a speaking function for Haslam at the Friday opening of the occasion that will feature several prospective Republican presidential candidates.
"It is a extremely lengthy system, and we're trying to accommodate the 2016 candidates," she said. "So however there wasn't time to contain absolutely everyone."
The speakers Friday involve U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, former U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker.
Also welcoming the NRA at the meeting is Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, who has announced he is not running for president.
Haslam has had a strained partnership with some gun rights advocates ever due to the fact he ran for his initial term as governor in 2010. In that race, his GOP rivals criticized Haslam, who was then the mayor of Knoxville, for his failure to join the NRA till just after he became a candidate, and for his previous membership in Mayors Against Illegal Guns, a group co-founded by New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg.
Haslam as mayor also presided over a 2009 city council vote that kept in spot a ban on handguns in some of the city's parks. That problem has come to a head once more this year, as state lawmakers have moved to do away with regional government handle more than no matter whether handgun carry permit holders can be armed in parks, playgrounds and ball fields.
Each chambers of the state Legislature lately passed versions of a bill to remove the neighborhood solution, but the measure has been difficult by an amendment adopted in the Senate that would also enable permit holders to be armed within the Capitol complicated.
The Property is scheduled to vote Monday on no matter if to go along with that adjust, though Republican leaders in the lower chamber have expressed a wish to strip off that amendment.
Home Speaker Beth Harwell, R-Nashville, stated addition of the Capitol to bill was encouraged by Democrats to make it more likely for Haslam to veto.
"Naturally it was not provided in a constructive fashion," she said.
The flap more than the Capitol guns amendment has thrown the timing of the guns-in-parks bill into question. Sponsors had hoped to enact the measure prior to the NRA came to town.
Haslam told reporters final month that the meeting of the potent gun lobby must not dictate the state's agenda.
"I don't believe lengthy-term policy ought to ever be driven by a short-term have to have," he said. "Men and women must choose, is this fantastic policy for the state or not?"

