Former presidential candidate's bracket thrives
 UPDATED 10:43 AM EDT Apr 07, 2015
Sandy Huffaker/Getty Images
Mitt Romney on Monday night found himself once again in the exclusive club of the 0.1%.
This time, though, Romney's elite status has nothing to do with his multi-million dollar fortune, and everything to do with the results of the NCAA tournament.
Romney's bracket ranked 6,326th out of the more than 11.5 million brackets filled out on ESPN.com, meaning he scored better than 99.9% of all entrants. A Romney source shared this weekend the former presidential candidate's bracket with The Huffington Post.
Romney's top ranking came after Duke University took home the trophy over the University of Wisconsin in the NCAA final Monday night.
Romney correctly picked the Final Four teams and six of the Elite Eight.
And in an apparent nod to his $10,000 wager to Gov. Rick Perry during a 2012 Republican presidential debate, Romney joked on Twitter Monday that he "should have put $10,000 on my bracket."
President Barack Obama came closer to the 47% Romney spotlighted in a video that set back his prospects in the 2012 presidential election. Obama fell just below the 40th percentile with his bracket that had predicted the University of Kentucky would defeat Villanova University in the final.
The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.
2min
Russian hackers behind the damaging cyber intrusion of the State Department in recent months used that perch to penetrate sensitive parts of the White House computer system, according to U.S. officials briefed on the investigation.
While the White Ho...
Close
Confirm Unsubscribe
Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?
Yes
No
Confirm Delete
Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?
Yes
No
Close
Please set an email address for your profile
No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
Email
For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
Display Name
Zip Code

