Canadians make 2,000-mile trip for Kentucky Fried Chicken
CORBIN, Ky. (AP) - Two thousand miles might seem like a long way to go for fried chicken.
Two men from Canada who took their sons on a journey to the original home of Kentucky Fried Chicken say it's a trip they'll never forget.
The Times-Tribune reports ( http://bit.ly/1CKSADI ) this was the third trip to the Harland Sanders Cafe and Museum for Brian Lufty, one of the fathers who piled the four sons into a van for the 34-hour pilgrimage from Montreal, Quebec. His tales of earlier visits inspired the trip.
The friends left on Thursday, travelling to Col. Sanders' birthplace and burial place before arriving at the Corbin restaurant Saturday afternoon.
For three of the sons, it was the first time they had tasted KFC.
Lufty's son Jesse said it was "delicious!"
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tens of thousands of people are gathering on the White House South Lawn for the annual Easter egg roll festivities. More >>
President Barack Obama kicked off the annual White House Easter egg roll Monday and used the occasion to tout the fifth anniversary of first lady Michelle Obama's campaign to get kids to eat healthy and exercise. More >>
Monday, April 6 2015 12:32 PM EDT2015-04-06 16:32:24 GMT
Federal prosecutors and lawyers for Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev (joh-HAHR' tsahr-NEYE'-ehv) have one last chance to make their case to the jury. More >>
Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev targeted men, women and children at the marathon because he wanted to terrorize the United States on a day when the eyes of the world would be on Boston, a federal prosecutor told... More >>
Monday, April 6 2015 12:08 PM EDT2015-04-06 16:08:33 GMT
Lawyers for former New England Patriots player Aaron Hernandez have called their first witness in his murder trial. More >>
The first defense witness in the murder trial of former New England Patriots player Aaron Hernandez is a doctor who says PCP can cause people to be suddenly violent, even days after smoking it. More >>
   
Amanda Knox 'so grateful to have my life back' after Italian court overturns conviction More >>
Amanda Knox 'so grateful to have my life back' after Italian court overturns conviction More >>
   

