Select Portfolio and Asset Combination for Display on Market Band
Select Portfolio
ET NOW RADIO
FREE ET MARKETS APP
South Korea, US, Japan envoys discuss North Korea nuclear concerns
By AFP | 27 May, 2015, 09.39AM IST
The effort comes as North Korea ramps up its nuclear rhetoric, boasting its ability to miniaturise a nuclear warhead to fit on rockets.
Hwang Joon-kook, South Korea's special representative for Korean Peninsula peace and security affairs, said Wednesday's dialogue was particularly timely given what he described as an "uncertain and tense" situation in North Korea.
"We are also facing the continuing advancement of North Korea's nuclear and missile capabilities," Hwang said before the meeting with Sung Kim , US special representative for North Korea policy, and Junichi Ihara , a regional director-general in the Japanese foreign ministry.
As well as last week's claim that the nation was capable of miniaturising nuclear warheads, Pyongyang recently hailed the "historic" test of a submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM).
But outside experts said state media reports of the test were exaggerated and estimated that the North was still years from developing a genuine SLBM capability.
Meanwhile, questions over the stability of Kim Jong-Un's leadership re-surfaced after South Korean intelligence reported that his defence minister had been purged and likely executed.
Against this background, efforts have been gathering pace to find a way back to the six-party talks, between North and South Korea, Japan, the United States, China and Russia.
The six-party forum was set up to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons in return for economic and diplomatic benefits, and security guarantees, but has not met since December 2008.
After Wednesday's dialogue in Seoul, the South Korean and US envoys were set to fly to Beijing to meet with their Chinese counterpart Wu Dawei.
There is growing pressure for the international community to try a new approach with North Korea, which has pushed ahead with its nuclear and missile programmes despite multi-layered UN sanctions and diplomatic isolation.
North Korea carried out nuclear tests in 2006, 2009 and 2013, and has an active ballistic missile development programme, although expert opinion is split on how much progress it has made.
A recent report by US researchers warned that the North was poised to expand its nuclear programme over the next five years and, in a worst-case scenario, could possess 100 atomic arms by 2020.
Stay on top of business news with The Economic Times App. Download it Now!
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)
Log In/Connect with:
3 + 1 =
Browse Companies
Browse Mutual Funds
BACK TO TOP
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Others

