By       Jeff Neumeyer
April 10, 2015 Updated Apr 10, 2015 at 5:50 PM EDT
WELLS COUNTY, Ind. (21ALIVE) --- State School Superintendent Glenda Ritz toured two Wells County schools Friday, to promote literacy.
She used the occasion to speak out about a bill advancing in the legislature that could change who runs the State Board of Education.
At Lancaster Elementary School outside of Bluffton, the state's top public school official was roaming the halls mid-morning, eventually pulling up a chair to read to wide-eyed students.
Before long, Ritz may have the chair pulled out from under her.
Currently, she's the automatic chairperson for the State Board of Education.
Senate Bill 1, which cleared a hurdle at the Statehouse Thursday, would give the board the authority to elect its own chair.
There's been a pattern of conflict between the Democratic Ritz and Republican-appointed board.
"It has been over a hundred years in which the Superintendent of Public Instruction has been the chair of the State Board of Education. It's a political move pure and simple, so, I'm going to continue to be opposed to it," Ritz said.
In the fraternity of Governor Pence and Republican lawmakers, Superintendent Ritz hasn't found a lot of friends, and that's bad news for her, because Republicans have all the power in Indiana right now.
But in the past couple of weeks, even they've found themselves on the wrong end of a power struggle.
Passage of a religious liberties law was sold as a way to protect the freedom of religious expression for faith-oriented business owners.
But influential corporate leaders took a lead role in shouting down the law as an open door to discriminate against gays and lesbians.
On April 2nd, Republicans walked the law back, making changes to try and put out the fire.
"What was intended as a message of inclusion, inclusion of all religious beliefs, was interpreted as a message of exclusion, especially for the LGBT community," said House Speaker Brian Bosma.
Does Ritz hope that experience will re-shape the outcome on her big issue?
"Members of the General Assembly represent their constituency, back at home, and so I would hope that that's what they all do, is that they're listening to the folks back in their home districts and they use that to inform their votes," she said.
But Caitlin Gamble, the head of Hoosiers for Quality Education, said, "We believe that an improved government structure will improve the operation of the board", going on to say, "It's time to spend less time arguing about the process and politics and return the focus to our students."
What are your thoughts CLICK HERE to leave us a "QUESTION OF THE DAY” comment.
Want to be in the know for the next weather event, the next school closing or the next big breaking news story?
TextCaster alerts from 21Alive.com are your defining source for instant information delivered right to your cell phone and email. It's free, easy and instant. Sign-Up Now !
Powered by Summit City Chevrolet
© Copyright 2015, A Granite Broadcasting Station. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Most Viewed

