Report: Braves' Callaspo changes mind, agrees to trade to Dodgers
Jay Clemons
+
Dan Hamilton / USA TODAY Sports
Through 31 games (27 at third base), Alberto Callaspo has one homer, eight RBI and is hitting .206.
FOX Sports South Jay Clemons
Share This Story
     
After initially vetoing a deal to the Dodgers , Alberto Callaspo has reportedly reversed course and will be sent to Los Angeles in a six-player deal that includes veteran infielder Juan Uribe .
FOX Sports MLB insider Ken Rosenthal reports it is a six-player trade that includes major-league pitching, with the expectation that either Trevor Cahill or Eric Stults is involved. Rosenthal says the move is done pending the approval of the commissioner's office.
Initially in Atlanta's starting lineup before Tuesday's game at Dodger Stadium, Callaspo was scratched due to "trade talks being revisited." The second baseman/third baseman wouldn't give his consent, a right he had after signing as a free agent in December. Callaspo would retain the ability to shut down any trade until June 15.
During the offseason, Callaspo inked a $3 million deal with Atlanta, with the intent of becoming the regular second basemen.
Sources: Callaspo trade between #Braves and #Dodgers back on. Braves pulled Callaspo from lineup. Six-player deal. Uribe would go to ATL.
However, given the ascension of Braves rookie Jace Peterson, Callaspo (one homer, eight RBI, .206/.293/.252) subsequently made the primary move to third base -- logging 27 of his 31 seasonal games at that position (replacing the injured Chris Johnson ).
On the surface, the trade has a curious twist for the Braves and Dodgers -- since the teams would essentially swap out pedestrian infielders.
However, from the Los Angeles perspective, it can free up the Dodgers to assign more playing time for rookie Alex Guerrero (who homered against Atlanta on Monday) at third base.
And from the Atlanta perspective, it provides the club with a more dependable right-handed bat ... coinciding with the impending return of Johnson (disabled list).
On the flip side, Uribe's seasonal numbers (one homer, six RBI, .247 average, .287 OBP) reek of a 36-year-old journeyman playing on his last legs in the majors. He lost his starting job due to a hitting slump and the emergence of veteran Justin Turner and Guerrero.
Callaspo, who played for the Los Angeles Angels from 2010 through 2013, struggled, hitting .206 for the Braves, including going 14 for 90 (.156) over the last 30 games.
-- The Associated Press contributed to this report.
0 Comments
You may use your Facebook account to add a comment on FoxSports.com , subject to Facebook's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Your Facebook name, photo, other personal information you make public on Facebook and comment will appear on FoxSports.com , and may be used on Fox Sports' other media platforms. Any questions?
FOXSports.com >
Other FOX Sites >
©2015 Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

