We noticed that you found this article on Facebook.
Here are some more articles that are popular on Facebook right now.
Manziel works with Browns’ second-team offense at OTAS
Published on NewsOK Modified: May 26, 2015 at 8:27 pm •  Published: May 26, 2015
Advertisement
BEREA, Ohio — Browns strong safety Donte Whitner has been monitoring the main parking lot at team headquarters in recent weeks, and he’s noticed a specific car is usually there earlier and later than the others.
It belongs to quarterback Johnny Manziel.
“He’s taken the steps that it takes to be a good quarterback,” Whitner said Tuesday after the first practice of organized team activities.
After struggling on and off the field as a rookie last year and then spending more than 10 weeks this offseason in an inpatient rehabilitation facility specializing in alcohol and drug addiction treatment, Manziel worked with the second-team offense when OTAs opened while projected starter Josh McCown commanded the first unit.
Manziel declined to address the media after practice, but Whitner and several other players spoke about the former Heisman Trophy winner’s renewed dedication.
“Johnny’s a very young guy,” Whitner said. “He understands the mistakes that he’s made, so he’s taken the proper steps to try to keep himself out of the trouble, from being out or people seeing him somewhere and saying, ‘Johnny’s doing this. Johnny’s doing that.’ And now he understands how serious it is. … The things he’s supposed to be doing, he’s really doing.”
Whitner revealed Akron native Maverick Carter has been instrumental in Manziel’s attempt to piece his life and career together. Carter is the business partner and friend of Cavaliers star LeBron James who runs the marketing firm LRMR, which represents Manziel.
“[Carter has] taken a big responsibility on making sure that Johnny’s doing all the right things,” Whitner said. “[Manziel] has a mentor, somebody to talk to. … So I know [Carter has] taken a big responsibility in that. It looks like it’s working out so far.
“I remember last [year, the media] made a big fuss about Johnny being in Vegas for Memorial Day weekend. Johnny was here in Cleveland for Memorial Day weekend this year. So that’s another step that he’s taken. He understands that you can’t be in Vegas or Miami or any of these other places. You have to be here. If you have to come in a day or two extra for an hour or two per day, that’s what quarterbacks do.”
Coach Mike Pettine said the staff gave Manziel the nod to begin OTAs ahead of Connor Shaw and Thad Lewis on the depth chart “based on how those guys came out of phase two” of the offseason conditioning program.
The work ethic Manziel has displayed as of late hasn’t hurt his cause. For example, Pettine noted Manziel has been “very engaged” in the offensive meetings.
“He’s probably a little bit more focused now,” Pettine said, discussing the differences between Manziel this year and last. “But it’s something that — as he knows and as he’s said — he’ll have to prove it every day.”
It’s still early, but so far, Manziel has been doing just that.
“For Johnny, it’s one day at a time,” McCown said. “You just got to keep stacking good days, and I would say to this point from everything I’ve seen, every day is a good day. He’s put one good day on top of another, and I’m really proud of him for that. He’s in there working and asking questions and staying late and doing all the little things to play this position because this position is very demanding and it’s demanding of a lot of things — emotionally, your time and effort.
“I think he’s understanding that, and he’s embracing that and that’s the key. If you don’t embrace those things, you don’t have a fighting chance. I think from that aspect, he’s done an outstanding job of coming in and embracing that and asking all the right questions.”
After Manziel connected with wide receiver Rodney Smith over the coverage of cornerback K’Waun Williams for a long completion in a one-on-one drill, Williams intercepted Manziel on an out route intended for Andrew Hawkins during a seven-on-seven session. Manziel and Shaw also fumbled snaps on consecutive plays in 11-on-11.
But for now, the Browns are more concerned with how Manziel is carrying himself.
“He’s focused,” offensive lineman John Greco said. “We see that. That’s very apparent. We’ve welcomed him back, we’re happy that he’s feeling better and happy he’s going to help us win some games.”
After all, that is what the organization expected when it drafted Manziel 22nd overall last year. Unfortunately for the Browns, Manziel and cornerback Justin Gilbert, the eighth overall selection, experienced issues on and off the field last year.
Now the hope is they can turn it around.
———
Visit the Akron Beacon Journal (Akron, Ohio) at www.ohio.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.
_____
Username
Password
Username
Your Name
Send Email
×

