Recent
Iowa’s Gabriel Olaseni and three other players from Iowa universities are among 64 players who will play in the annual Portsmouth Invitational…
Recent
Q. How was Gonzaga named?
Recent
Recent
Other Vehicles for Sale
Employment News
Saved
SPRINGFIELD — Gov. Bruce Rauner's fight against Big Labor is meeting some resistance on the front lines.
An early review of local governments that have considered supporting his call for local right-to-work zones shows some elected officials are delaying action on the divisive matter rather than embracing it.
Shelby County is the latest example of how the anti-union resolution has fared in some areas of the state since Rauner asked local governments to weigh in on the concept.
Shelby County Board Chairman Dave Cruitt said Monday that the proposal backing right-to-work won't be voted on when board members meet Wednesday.
"Too many of our board members don't know enough about it," Cruitt said. "We're not going to act on it."
Plus, he said, "I think it would be a hard sell in our county."
Since taking office in January, Rauner has crisscrossed the state arguing that local officials should create special zones in which workers couldn't be forced to join a union as a condition of employment. He says the zones could make Illinois more attractive for business.
Elected officials in communities where the right-to-work issue has been on the agenda have faced anger and opposition from union workers.
In Oswego, union workers packed a village trustee meeting last month to protest the resolution. It was not voted on by the trustees.
In early April, the issue was discussed by members of the Iroquois County Board in front of nearly three dozen concerned union members.
County Board Chairman Kyle Anderson said he hopes to bring the matter before a board committee Thursday with the goal of getting it on the full board's agenda next week.
He said despite all members of the board being Republicans like Rauner, he's unsure whether the resolution will be approved.
Moultrie County Board Chairman Dave McCabe said the issue has been put on hold until at least next month.
The measure also could come up for discussion in Litchfield when the city council meets Thursday.
The East Dundee Village Board did vote in support of the resolution during its March 30 meeting, but one observer said that action is a rarity at this stage of the debate.
Brad Cole, executive director of the Illinois Municipal League, which helped distribute the sample resolutions to more than 1,000 cities and villages, said it could be several weeks before local officials begin take formal votes on it.
Members of the Shelby County Board were set to meet with a Rauner aide Tuesday to discuss the proposal. That meeting, however, was canceled after Cruitt said the board would need more time to consider the resolution.
In addition, he said the entire concept may not be legal after Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan, a Democrat, last month issued an opinion saying such zones are unconstitutional.
"This all may be for naught," Cruitt said.
Rauner spokeswoman Catherine Kelly would not elaborate on why the meeting between the county board and Rauner aide Casey Constant was canceled.
But she said the administration continues to look for support among local governments.
"The governor's intergovernmental affairs team is constantly meeting with and talking to local government officials about ways to empower local governments and drive value for local taxpayers," Kelly said in an email Monday.
Copyright 2015 The Quad-City Times. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Quad City Rooter
Graybeard Investigations Inc
Find Area Businesses
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with qctimes.com account:
Username & Password Required!

