Lois Capps
Jacquelyn Martin / Associated Press
Democratic Rep. Lois Capps of Santa Barbara, seen in a 2011  photo, announced April 8 that she will retire in 2016.
Democratic Rep. Lois Capps of Santa Barbara, seen in a 2011  photo, announced April 8 that she will retire in 2016.
(Jacquelyn Martin / Associated Press)
Lois Capps' retirement opens a potentially competitive House seat for GOP
Lois Capps' daughter Laura considering a Congress run to replace her mother
Rep. Lois Capps, a former nurse known for a kind demeanor in a Congress where that quality is often lacking, announced Wednesday that she would retire when her term expires next year.
The Santa Barbara Democrat was elected to Congress in a 1998 special election to replace her husband, Walter, after his death. She said in a video that "it is time for me to return home, back to the community and family that I love so much."
"It’s been a hard decision to make, for I have loved this job," she added, citing her work on education, health care, businesses, veterans' issues and environmental protection.
Capps, 77, initially signed a pledge to serve no more than three terms in Congress -- a limitation that expired a decade ago.
In a statement, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi called Capps "a steadfast champion for protecting public lands, providing affordable education to all children, and fighting for the resources families need to live healthier lives."
Her retirement opens a potentially viable seat for Republicans, but one that will be contested in a presidential year, in which Democratic turnout typically rises.
The narrow slice of the Central Coast became more competitive in 2012 after redistricting. Democrats hold a narrow lead in party registration over Republicans, 37%-34%, according to the California Target Book, a nonpartisan election compendium. More than 1 in 5 voters registered as nonpartisan.
Capps won with 52% of the vote in November. The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan political handicapper, said Wednesday that the seat remains likely Democratic, even after her retirement.
Potential contenders include Capps’ daughter Laura Burton Capps, a former speechwriter for Bill Clinton who also served as an aide to Sens. John F.  Kerry and Edward M. Kennedy; Santa Barbara Mayor Helene Schneider, another Democrat; and Justin Fareed, a Republican who ran for the seat previously.
Each party, predictably, claimed some edge.
"The 24th District has been competitive for multiple cycles and instantly becomes a more likely pickup opportunity for Republicans in 2016 with Lois Capps’ retirement," said Zach Hunter, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee.
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Chairman Ben Ray Luján noted that Capps and President Obama won the district by more than 10 percentage points in 2012, the most recent presidential year.

