Top Stories
Seminole gaming bill expands to include Tampa horse track
The existing Seminole Compact with Florida allows for slots at parimutuels in Broward and Miami-Dade counties. TRIBUNE FILE PHOTO
BY JAMES L. ROSICA
Tribune/Scripps Capital Bureau
Published: April 8, 2015   |   Updated: April 8, 2015 at 06:59 PM
TALLAHASSEE — A bill originally meant to allow the Seminole Tribe of Florida to continue offering blackjack for one more year was amended Wednesday to also permit what some critics called the largest expansion of gambling in state history.
The bill (SB 7088) was so transformed that Sen. Rob Bradley, the Fleming Island Republican who offered it, eventually voted against it.
Bradley also chairs the Senate’s Regulated Industries committee, which approved the bill 7-5 after nearly two hours of discussion and public comment.
It still contains the original one-year extension of the Seminoles’ blackjack rights. A spokesman for the tribe declined comment.
The add-ons – totaling 40 pages on top of a two-page bill – would allow decoupling, or removing the requirement that dog and horse tracks run live races if they wish to offer other gambling, like slots and card games.
That change could also ease the way for the state’s remaining jai alai frontons to convert into card rooms, or “mini-casinos,” as some call them.
Still another amendment to Bradley’s bill would open the door to stripping away any exclusive rights the Seminole Tribe has to offer slot machine gambling. The existing Seminole Compact with Florida allows for slots at parimutuels in Broward and Miami-Dade counties.
And another change would allow the Tampa Bay Downs horse racing track to share in slots revenue from elsewhere in the state. Currently, the track is the state’s only thoroughbred course without slots.
Peter Berube, Tampa Bay Downs’ general manager, on Wednesday estimated his operation could see a $4 million dollar yearly boost if the provision is passed into law. But he’s not yet counting on it.
“Things are fluid up there right now,” Berube said, referring to the legislative session, now in the sixth of its nine weeks.
A portion of the Seminole Compact expires at the end of July. The state in 2010 granted the tribe exclusive rights to offer card games like blackjack in return for $1 billion over five years.
Formal discussions between the tribe and Gov. Rick Scott’s office are at a standstill, and money to the state from card games – more than $200 million yearly – stops flowing if the deal isn’t renegotiated.
The House still hasn’t taken a vote on its gambling legislation, which is scheduled to be heard Thursday morning before its Regulatory Affairs committee. It doesn’t contain the language passed by the Senate panel.
Moreover, the ambitions in that bill (HB 1233) have been contracted significantly, including the dropping of a provision that would have allowed two destination casino-convention hall resorts in South Florida.
That bill is sponsored by Rep. Dana Young of Tampa, the House Republican leader.
One of the senators offering amendments Wednesday, Joe Abruzzo of Wellington, was met with laughter when he said he didn’t believe the changes would expand gambling.
“No, I really believe that,” Abruzzo, a Democrat, told the crowded hearing room, breaking into a chuckle himself.
He later explained that the amendments would change the kinds of games available but wouldn’t promote a growth in gambling overall, saying “the pot of game play will stay in the same jurisdiction.”
Bradley later told reporters he allowed amendments on his bill, most of which were submitted after the filing deadline, to foster “full and robust debate, and that debate will continue.”
“Much like the president, I may have some personal feelings about gaming,” he said, referring to Senate President Andy Gardiner, the Orlando Republican who generally opposes gambling.
“But my job is to take all the views and put them together and move it forward,” Bradley said. “That’s what we did today.”
As for the Seminoles deal, he added, “We’ll continue to talk to the tribe and see if there is common ground, but right now, it’s just a bridge too far.”
Gardiner will determine what happens next to the bill, spokeswoman Katie Betta said. It does not yet have any further committees scheduled to hear it.
jrosica@tampatrib.com
How to sound off
SB 7088, as amended, would authorize a one-year extension on a current agreement that lets the Seminole Tribe of Florida offer blackjack at five of its seven casinos, including the Tampa Hard Rock Hotel & Casino. It would also allow dog and horse tracks to stop live racing but continue to offer other gambling.
The bill’s main sponsor is Sen. Rob Bradley, R-Fleming Island, (850) 487-5007, bradley.rob.web@flsenate.gov.
To find and contact your own senator or representative, visit www.leg.state.fl.us. You’ll also find helpful tips at the Information Center there.
Trending Now
Part of the Tribune family of products

