Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
Creator of powdered alcohol says proposed ban will hurt Alabama consumers
Palcohol.PNG
A powdered Margarita mix that would be banned in Alabama by a bill sponsored by Rep. Craig Ford (D-Gadsden). (courtesy)
"We don't want a nanny state that forces its values on the citizens."
House Minority Leader Craig Ford has proposed a ban on the sale of powdered alcohol - also known as Palcohol - in Alabama.
A company called Lipsmark manufactures Palcohol, which will be available in stores sometime this summer, said creator Mark Phillips. The product just received federal approval last month from the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau. Flavors include rum, vodka, Cosmopolitan and Powderita, which tastes like Margarita.
But it may never be available in Alabama if the legislature adopts Rep. Ford's bill to ban the product. Alabama would join several states that have already taken action against Palcohol, including Alaska, Kansas, Louisiana, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Vermont and Virginia. Rep. Craig was not immediately available for comment.
Phillips said he is disappointed that state governments have been so eager to ban a product that isn't even available to consumers yet. He said powdered alcohol is no easier to misuse than the liquid kind.
"They say you can snort it," Phillips said. "Well, you can snort liquid alcohol and get drunk even faster."
The packets are 4 inches by 6 inches, Phillips said, large enough to hold six ounces of water to mix and make a drink, but not small enough to easily conceal. Hikers and campers would be able to carry the packets and pour water into them to make a drink, he added.
Critics have said Palcohol might appeal to underage drinkers and those who want to smuggle drinks into areas where drinking is restricted or banned. Sen. Charles Schumer (D-NY) introduced federal legislation last month to ban powdered alcohol.
 "Underage alcohol abuse is a growing epidemic with tragic consequences and powdered alcohol could exacerbate this," U.S. Sen. Schumer wrote in a statement. "We simply can't sit back and wait for powdered alcohol to hit store shelves across the country, potentially causing more alcohol-related hospitalizations and God forbid, deaths. This legislation will make illegal the production and sale of this Kool-Aid for underage drinking."
Phillips said banning the product will only make it more attractive to underage users. Governments that ban the product will spend money enforcing the law, and lose potential tax revenue, without addressing the underlying problem of alcohol abuse, Phillips said.
"The legislatures are saying, 'I know you guys want this, but no you can't have it,'" Phillips said. "We don't want a nanny state that forces its values on the citizens. I think they are really overstepping the bounds of government."
© 2015 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Alabama Media Group
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.

