Sign Up
Jerry Jones, Chris Christie under federal investigation over One World Trade Center contract
Apr 10, 2015, 1:24pm CDT
Thank you for sharing. Your email has been sent.
Email address of friend (insert comma between multiple addresses):
Your email address:
A seemingly unlikely friendship between New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and Dallas Cowboys’ owner Jerry Jones has been the butt of many jokes, but has now evolved into the subject of scrutiny from federal prosecutors.
An investigation is underway around how Legends Hospitality LLC, which is co-owned by Jones, secured the rights to operate the One World Trade Center’s observation deck. The nation’s tallest building is controlled by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which is controlled by – you guessed it – Christie and New York Governor Andrew Cuomo .
Under the agreement, Legends operates the deck on floors 100, 101 and 102 of the building. It also includes a public space on the 100th floor, a restaurant on the 101st floor and event space on the 102nd and 104th floors.
Christie has said he did not strike up a friendship with Jones until September 2013, six months after the observation deck’s contract was awarded, ESPN said .
He has called those who questioned his involvement “partisan hacks” and “aluminum-foil-on-their-head conspiracy theorists.”
But it is not the first time Christie has been accused of misusing his public office.
In September 2013’s “bridge scandal,” he was accused of ordering lane closures near the George Washington Bridge after mayor of Fort Lee, New Jersey, did not endorse him for re-election. At the time, Christie called the allegations “inexplicably stupid.”
Korri covers banking, finance and nonprofits for the Dallas Business Journal. Subscribe to our email newsletters.
Industries:
Comments
If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
New Opportunities from the Dallas Business Journal
Slideshows
Twitter
Emailed
Mobile
.@ Americanair says March traffic down 0.6%; lowers forecast on foreign exchange losses http://t.co/PgmpdzTK0d via @ DallasBizNews
Property Accountant Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services | Dallas, TX
Marketing Automation Manager HealthMarkets Insurance | North Richland Hills, TX
Receptionist BMC | Dallas, TX

