Chinese feminists detained for 'picking quarrels'
The families of 5 Chinese feminists detained by authorities for "selecting quarrels" have known as for their instant release. The young women were detained on the eve of International Women's Day on March 8, which they had planned to mark by distributing...
The families of 5 Chinese feminists detained by authorities for "selecting quarrels" have known as for their instant release.
The young women were detained on the eve of International Women's Day on March 8, which they had planned to mark by distributing leaflets and stickers to raise awareness of sexual harassment.
The females, aged involving 25 and 32, had been taken into custody prior to they had carried out their planned activism.
Lawyers said the uncommon charge, which carries a prison term of up to five years, was added simply because it would have been tough to make a criminal case against the females.
The charge may well also refer to a 2012 campaign by the women named "Occupy the Men's Toilets", which led to 4 cities pledging to increase the ratio of lavatories for females.
In 2013 they dressed in blood-splattered bridal gowns to draw focus to the problem of domestic violence.
(Clockwise from leading left): Zheng Churan (郑楚然), Li Tingting (李婷婷), Wang Man (王曼), Wu Rongrong (武嵘嵘), and Wei Tingting (韦婷婷)
On Saturday, 10 of their relatives wrote a letter to Beijing prosecutors saying that the girls are "young, type-hearted, and complete of a sense of duty to society".
Prosecutors have till Monday to formally approve their arrest or release the ladies.
The detention of Wu Rongrong, Li Tingting, Wei Tingting, Zhen Churan and Wang Man has been condemned by the UK, the US and human rights advocacy groups which includes Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International.
Considering that president Xi Jinping came to energy in 2012 he has overseen a campaign to silence government critics which includes activists, journalists and academics.
Authorities detained practically 1,000 dissenters in 2014, according to a report by China Human Rights Defenders, or nearly double the figure of the previous two years combined.
But the detention of the young feminists for their comparatively innocuous activism came as a surprise.
Girls played an important part in the Communist Celebration&#x2019s rise to energy – Mao Zedong famously declared &#x201cwomen hold up half the sky&#x201d.
Final November the State Council released a draft of China&#x2019s initially anti-domestic violence law. In the country's first gender discrimination lawsuit last year a lady sued a tutoring firm that rejected her job application mainly because she was a woman.
However overall the image for women's rights in China is grim.
Women are below excellent pressure to marry as single women more than the age of 27 are branded as "leftover". According to the All-China Ladies&#x2019s Federation, a state-controlled NGO, nearly 40% of women who are married or have a boyfriend have knowledgeable physical or sexual violence.
The stickers the five feminists had planned to distribute study: &#x201cStop sexual harassment, let us stay safe."
Our editors found this article on this site using Google and regenerated it for our readers.
12 April 2015 Sunday 15:52

