Personalize your weather by entering a location.
Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.
Colwyn Borough manager locks self in hall after firing
The borough manager of Colwyn, Pa. has locked herself inside the borough hall and refuses to leave the building after a vote on Thursday night to fire her.
Embed
By
COLWYN, Pa. (WPVI) --
The borough manager of Colwyn, Pa. locked herself inside the borough hall and refused to leave the building Friday after a vote on Thursday night to fire her.
Paula Brown eventually left the building shortly before 6 p.m.
It all began after a majority faction of the borough council voted for Brown's firing during a chaotic meeting.
However, another faction says the firing wasn't valid because the vote was taken after adjournment.
"They did fire me, but it was after the meeting was adjourned.  So, how legitimate that is, a judge would have to decide that," Brown told Action News.
The faction voting in favor of the firing did not comment on why they took that action.  Brown said it was because she's a whistleblower.
Sources say it was detectives from the Delaware County District Attorney's office who hauled away boxes of borough files on Friday.  The files that were hauled out are related to an ongoing investigation.
Brown emerged moments later to say she is continuing to protest.  She also says she will organize and turn over files that, she claims, will prove that wholesale corruption, namely misuse of public funds, has been widespread at the hall for years.
"There has been $1.1 million in misappropriated funds over the last few years.  There are a lot of records inside here and I have a duty to protect them," said Brown.
When asked about the opposing faction, Brown said "I wouldn't call them a faction.  I would call them thieves.  That's what they are."
Also fired at Thursday's meeting was the borough's code director, Dan Rutledge.  He believes he was fired because he refused to be shaken down by an elected official.
"I believe that I did not bow down to a certain elected official because he requested $3,000 to $4,000 from me - cash - for his campaign," Rutledge said.
Brown is no stranger to controversy - and hunkering down in a public building.   She did something similar when she was mayor of neighboring Darby Borough in a dispute with that town's veteran police chief.
Brown was only keeping political enemies out of the building.  Public citizens and her allies were allowed inside.
The Delaware County DA's office has refused comment on this situation.
Related Topics:
Personalize your weather by entering a location.
Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

