Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Same-sex marriage ban arguments pour into Supreme Court
Supporters of same-sex marriage bans  flooded the U.S. Supreme Court with briefs today, arguing that overturning the bans would  create legal havoc.
Post to Facebook
Same-sex marriage ban arguments pour into Supreme Court Supporters of same-sex marriage bans  flooded the U.S. Supreme Court with briefs today, arguing that overturning the bans would  create legal havoc. Check out this story on Freep.com: http://on.freep.com/1FqjCBz
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
4
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Same-sex marriage ban arguments pour into Supreme Court
By Todd Spangler, Detroit Free Press 4:01 p.m. EDT April 3, 2015
Supporters of same-sex marriage bans in Michigan and elsewhere inundated the U.S. Supreme Court with briefs arguing it has no right to intervene and to do so will cause legal havoc.
(Photo: Susan Walsh, Associated Press file)
Story Highlights
Michigan, three other states focus of same-sex marriage bans
Catholic bishops say court is "at a crossroads"
WASHINGTON – Seeing the potential for their religious and social beliefs to be stripped from state laws, supporters of same-sex marriage bans in Michigan and elsewhere inundated the U.S. Supreme Court with briefs arguing it has no right to intervene and to do so will cause legal havoc.
Friend-of-the-court briefs from myriad sources — the the Family Research Council, black ministers and leaders of the 2012 Republican National Convention's platform committee among them — poured into the court ahead of today's deadline, many warning of unintended consequences harming families and children if the court reverses the bans.
"A constitutional right to same-sex marriage under any theory would create severe tensions with religious freedoms," said a brief filed today by evangelical groups, the Church of Latter-Day Saints, the Southern Baptist Convention and other religious organization, adding, "Recognizing a new right to same-sex marriage would harm religious liberty."
"This court stands at a crossroads," added the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops in its brief. Fifty-seven members of Congress -- Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Michigan Reps. Mike Bishop, R-Rochester, and Tim Walberg, R-Tipton, among them -- also argued that a reversal by the court could "damage the rights of a self-governing people" and set "an unwarranted precedent."
The Supreme Court will hear oral arguments April 28 on cases from Michigan and three other states challenging same-sex marriage bans and asking whether, if those bans stand, states must recognize same-sex marriages legally performed elsewhere. At present, a patchwork of laws and legal decisions allow same-sex marriages in 37 states and Washington, D.C., but bar them in other places.
State defenders of the bans, including Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette's office, filed their briefs last Friday, arguing that since the U.S. Constitution is silent on marriage, its legal definition should be left to the states. Today's deadline for friend-of-the-court briefs supporting the bans came as Indiana and Arkansas tempered religious freedom bills amid harsh criticism the bills were anti-gay.
Briefs in support of overturning the bans were filed weeks ago. With more than 90 friend-of-the-court briefs already filed in the consolidated cases, the number could be among the most ever filed in a single matter before the Supreme Court.
While many of the briefs filed in advance of today's postmark deadline rejected the notion they were motivated by animosity toward gay and lesbian couples, many also left no doubt that their authors believed that allowing for same-sex marriage would undermine traditional values, break up families and lead to children being disconnected from their biological parents.
One group of history professors wrote that only opposite-sex marriage should be recognized because it is needed "to channel the presumptive procreative potential of sexual relationships between men and women into enduring unions." The 2012 RNC platform committee leaders, which included U.S. Rep. Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee, added that "traditional marriage" gives men "familial obligations and responsibilities to channel their energy and aggression into socially desirable ends."
"Marriage equality does not exist in the United States. It cannot be made to exist in law without destroying the rights of children to be connected to their biological parents," Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley argued in his brief, noting that, in his state, a federal court order allowing same-sex marriages has been under seige in the state courts. "Marriage is a natural reality," he added.
"This will make marriage a joke — a bad joke," wrote David Robinson.
Critics of bans across the U.S. have argued with increasing success in recent years that they violate guarantees of equal protection  and due process under the law enshrined in the U.S. Constitution. But supporters say there is no such right when it comes to marriage, in large part because it has only been recognized as being a compact between a man and a woman historically and through tradition.
At least 16 other states filed briefs in support of the bans, including several in states where court orders already allow for same-sex marriages.
Several of the briefs argued that gays and lesbians don't qualify as what's known legally as a "suspect class" — in other words, one that has been traditionally targeted for discrimination — because unlike race, ethnicity or nationality, their sexual orientation isn't easily defined or immutable.
One group that says it supports the families of people "with unwanted same-sex attraction" even said New York Mayor Bill de Blasio's wife formerly identified as a lesbian but no longer does, to support the point. Filers argued to make gay people  a "suspect class" would open the floodgates to other unclassifiable groups looking for such protections.
"Government should never classify or discriminate against another human being based on who they are. A person's sexuality and sexual preferences, however, are not their state of being, or even an immutable aspect of who they are, as race is," several Michigan lawyers wrote for the National Coalition of Black Pastors and Christian Leaders, which said it represents 25,000 churches nationwide. "Government may not regulate people based on who they are, but it may regulate their conduct, including sexual conduct."
"Once Petitioners' inclusiveness camel gets its nose in the marriage tent, marriage will not be a better tent; it will be trampled and destroyed," the brief continued.
With Michigan's ban specifically under scrutiny, several filers from the state directly urged the court to reject the challenge brought a two Hazel Park nurses saying it is unconstitutional, demeaning them and their four adopted children as well as denying them legal benefits and protections.
Writing for the American Freedom Law Center in Ann Arbor, lawyer Robert Muise said there was no question Michigan's 2004 ban advanced a reasonable governmental objective: biology.
The Michigan Catholic Conference wrote that the state's citizens "did not vote to ban same-sex marriage" but to "retain its biological requirement of a male-female union rooted in nature, not just tradition." The American Family Association in Michigan argued that any reversal of the ban by the court would be "an unlawful arrogation of authority it does not possess."
A decision is expected this summer.
In its brief, the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops counseled caution to the court, saying a decision overturning state bans would put an end to local referendums on the question but fail to "end the debate in the culture and certainly not in the courts," generating cases for years to come.
"If this Court were to declare Church teaching to be mere bigotry, then the conflict between constitutional rights to act on such religious beliefs — i.e., the rights to free exercise, speech, and association — versus a newly created constitutional right of two people of the same sex to civil marriage will never cease," the group wrote.
Contact Todd Spangler at 703-854-8947 or at tspangler@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter at @tsspangler.
Read or Share this story: http://on.freep.com/1FqjCBz
More Stories

