Submitted by Diane Hoffman on Wed, 05/27/2015 - 07:50
Rhode Island's Department of Health has warned that cases of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) have increased at an alarming rate over the past few years. The department revealed that cases of syphilis jumped 79 per cent between 2013 and 2014, while HIV infections increased 33 per cent during the same period of time.
Young adults are getting affected by STDs at a rate faster than the rest of the population. Rhode Island has to say that the recent increase in STD cases has now become a big concern to address. The state's health department has to say that a significant contribution in the uptick of STDs has come from high-risk behaviors that have become more common in recent years, like misuse of social media to get people engaged in casual and often anonymous sexual encounters.
Blame for a rise in STDs in the past was put on social media and online hook up apps. A 2013 New York University study has revealed about a 16% increase in HIV cases between 1999 and 2008 across 33 states was attributable to Craigslist.
More than half of all syphilis cases in New Zealand in 2012 were linked to Grinder, a hookup app for gay men, said Christchurch Sexual Health Clinic.
"These new data underscore the importance of encouraging young people to begin talking to a doctor, nurse, or health educator about sexual health".
Efforts are being aggressively made in Rhode Island to create partnerships among state agencies, community-based organizations, and healthcare providers to disseminate information about STDs, test for the disease and provide treatments to the affected ones. Medical experts have to say that it is a good practice to get yourself regularly checked for HIV and STDs. Doctors and nurses have also been given proper training to talk to people on sensitive topics like sex and let them learn safety measures.
Opt-out instructions are included in each e-mail.
Images Gallery
Health Topics
18 hours 29 min ago
Latest News
24 min 18 sec ago
You are here
Education - This is a contributing Drupal Theme

