Ferguson Election
Jeff Roberson / Associated Press
Reginald Rounds, a volunteer with the Organization for Black Struggle, made door-to-door visits while canvassing a neighborhood in Ferguson, Mo., ahead of Tuesday's election.
Reginald Rounds, a volunteer with the Organization for Black Struggle, made door-to-door visits while canvassing a neighborhood in Ferguson, Mo., ahead of Tuesday's election.
(Jeff Roberson / Associated Press)
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel faces race today against Jesus Garcia
Race relations are at the heart of Tuesday's closely watched election in Ferguson, Mo., where the Justice Department found a pattern of racial discrimination in the suburb that was the scene of violent racial protests last year.
Chicago Mayoral Runoff
Joshua Lott / Getty
Supporters for Cook County Commissioner and candidate for mayor of Chicago Jesus Garcia stand outside his headquarters on Monday. Garcia is challenging current Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel in Tuesday's runoff election.
Supporters for Cook County Commissioner and candidate for mayor of Chicago Jesus Garcia stand outside his headquarters on Monday. Garcia is challenging current Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel in Tuesday's runoff election.
(Joshua Lott / Getty)
Meanwhile, voters are also going to the polls in Chicago where Mayor Rahm Emanuel was fighting for reelection against Cook County Commissioner Jesus Garcia in what many are seeing as a race fueled in part by changing demographics in the Windy City. Emanuel, who failed to win the first electoral round six weeks ago, is running strongly in the current race, according to most local polls.
Voters in Ferguson, in what is expected to be a low-turnout election, went to the polls to fill three seats on the six-member city council. The new council will be hiring a new city manager, who will in turn hire a new police chief. Both officials, along with two other top police officers, a municipal judge and a municipal court clerk were forced out or fired in the wake of the race-related scandals that rocked the city.
The Justice Department investigated the city’s activities after a white police officer, Darren Wilson, shot and killed an unarmed young black man, Michael Brown, last year, sparking nights of violence in the Missouri city and protests across the nation over how police treat African Americans. A county grand jury decided not to charge Wilson and that decision was greeted with more violent protests.
About two-thirds of the city’s population of 21,000 is African American but the power structure is white. The Justice Department found that the city discriminated against blacks by focusing on them for arrest. The city also used its municipal traffic court as an ATM machine, running up debts and fines.
The federal agency also found that top officials shared racist emails and jokes, including some that impugned President Obama.
Voter turnout has been a key issue in Ferguson with officials calling for a large turnout from blacks to help fix the city.
"This is a step we need to get the city headed in the right direction," Patricia Bynes, a Democratic committeewoman who has been running a voter education program, told reporters this week. "But we are dealing with a community that doesn't regularly vote."
Voter turnout in Ferguson has been historically low.
The lone black councilman, Dwayne James, is not up for reelection. The 3rd Ward race involves two black men, Lee Smith, 76, and Wesley Bell, 40, guaranteeing that a second African American will be on the council.
The 1st Ward features four candidates, two black and two white. The 2nd Ward race involves two white men.
The Ferguson election is being watched by labor unions, civil rights groups and the Working Families Party, a leading liberal group.
Also being closely watched is the Chicago race where the pugnacious Emanuel faces Garcia, who has strong union support, particularly from teachers who have fought the mayor’s cutbacks.
Comments

