MENU
April 11, 2015
Chelsea Clinton on Motherhood: "What Did We Do Before We Were Parents?"
Just as Hillary Clinton is expected to announce she's running for president, her daughter Chelsea is covering ELLE, opening up about what it's like having Bill and Hillary as parents, how she handles being a high-profile person, and what it's like being a new mom.
[Credit: Paola Kudacki for ELLE]
Referring to her husband, investment banker Marc Mezvinsky, Clinton tells ELLE , "Marc and I are like, 'What did we do before we were parents?' My whole life is reoriented around my daughter in the most blessed sense." She calls their daughter Charlotte "the most remarkable little bubbly, perfect, chunky monkey creature ever."
[Credit: Paola Kudacki for ELLE]
If Hillary Clinton announces a run for the White House tomorrow as expected, Chelsea won't just be excited because her mother is running—she thinks it's high time for a female president.
"[O]ne of our core values in this country is that we are the land of equal opportunity, but when equal hasn’t yet included gender, there is a fundamental challenge there that, I believe, having our first woman president—whenever that is—will help resolve. And do I think it would make a substantive difference? Yes, we’ve seen again and again, when women have been in positions of leadership, they have had different degrees of success versus their male counterparts, historically being able to build more consensus so that decisions have longer-term effects, whether in economic investments or in building social capital. Who sits around the table matters. And who sits at the head of the table matters, too."
Comments
Around the Web
The Extra List
"Extra" gets you on the list!
Sign up here for exclusive access to all your favorite celebrities
and breaking entertainment news!
First Name*
Last Name*
Zip/Postal Code
E-mail Address*
Sign Up
Stay Connected
Visit Our Related Sites
Newsletter Sign-Up
Sign up here for exclusive access to all your favorite celebrities and breaking entertainment news!
In partnership with Warner Bros. Entertainment

