Chicago's Mayor Rahm Emanuel attends an opening ceremony for the Yelp Inc. offices in Chicago, Illinois, March 5, 2015.
Reuters/Jim Young
right
Chicago Mayoral candidate Jesus 'Chuy' Garcia and his wife Evelyn arrive at a restaurant for lunch, on election day in Chicago, Illinois, February 24, 2015.
Reuters/Jim Young
right
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Chicagoans headed to the polls on Tuesday in a mayoral runoff election pitting well-funded incumbent Rahm Emanuel against Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garcia in a race to lead a city on the brink of financial crisis and plagued by violent crime.
Emanuel, 55, who has spent millions of dollars on television and radio ads, was well ahead of Garcia, 58, in a poll released on Sunday by Chicago-based polling company Ogden & Fry, though polls for the February election did not predict a runoff.
The poll conducted on April 4 had Emanuel with 51.3 percent to Garcia's 33 percent. The poll of 972 likely voters had a margin of error of 3.2 percent.
Emanuel, a former aide to former U.S. President Bill Clinton and President Barack Obama, was the first incumbent who failed to garner more than 50 percent of the vote in the first round of voting, which necessitated a runoff election. Chicago began holding nonpartisan mayoral elections in 1995.
Emanuel finished first among five candidates and Garcia, a former state senator and alderman, came in second.
Emanuel, who has been criticized for closing 50 public schools, as well as for violent crime and for what some call an arrogant manner, has fought to rehabilitate himself with voters. He acknowledged in television ads that he can be abrasive, but said he fights for Chicago.
"Rahm may be a jerk but this is not a personality contest. It's about who can lead this city forward," said Alison Street, 46, a manager at a nonprofit organization, who had just voted. "Rahm has a plan."
Emanuel has attacked Garcia, a fellow Democrat, for lacking a plan to deal with the city's fiscal problems, which include a budget deficit expected to grow to $1.2 billion by next year due to public pension payments.
"I think the mayor is more qualified than the other candidate, who didn't elaborate on how he hoped to get the job done," Vanessa Schwartz, a supervisor of a social services agency, said outside a polling place on the city's southeast side.
Garcia, a Mexican immigrant, has knocked Emanuel as a mayor for the rich and for downtown, and has said he would listen to concerns of residents in the city's low-income neighborhoods.
Nikki Williams, 55, said her neighborhood faces a tough job market, school cutbacks and inconsistent city services. She supported Garcia, but was not confident of improvement if he won.
"I hope for change. I do what I can to help that change. But it feels like the more things change, we still get more of the same," said Williams, who works at a daycare program.
Political analysts have said Emanuel seems poised to win, but it could be close, depending on turnout. A big turnout would favor the challenger.
Garcia is banking on the powerful Chicago Teachers Union and other unions to get out the vote. Turnout was strong in early voting - more than 142,300 compared with less than 90,000 for the February election.
"The mayor is still running negative ads. Often you run positive ads in the last days," said Thom Serafin, a political analyst. "He wants to be certain. They're both battling it out until the last minute."
Republican analyst Chris Robling said Garcia hurt himself by not having better answers on budget questions, and Emanuel was able to exploit it.
"It looks like Rahm has weathered the storm," said Robling. But he added: "Anything can happen. Lightning can strike."
(Additional reporting by Tracy Rucinski and P.J. Huffstutter in Chicago; editing by Matthew Lewis )
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .

