0
Senator John McCain, a former Republican presidential candidate and current Arizona senator, has announced that he will run for re-election after much speculation that he would retire at the end of his term. Both Politico and the AP are reporting that he announced his intentions at the Arizona Chamber of Commerce and Industry luncheon in Phoenix. Despite his age, McCain will be 80 in 2016, he says that he feels fit and ready to continue serving his country in a sixth term.
Senator McCain’s age will be a factor in the upcoming campaign, a fact which he acknowledged in his announcement. But he reassured his audience that age would not be a factor in the future. “Listen,” he said after noting his 18-hour working days, “I’m just getting started.” He also said that he felt he had the experience required to lead the country via a sixth term.
While the Senator is optimistic about his chances and abilities, the Republican party may have a different idea. Over the years, he has copped a lot of flak from fellow members of the GOP, particularly the accusation that he is not conservative enough. Despite that, he said he would stand on his record in the re-election campaign. That record may be a bone of contention in a possible primary challenge from a Republican hopeful.
The Democrats have already attacked his record. The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee promised to find a candidate to challenge him in the Arizona election. Even with a strong challenger, however, McCain would be considered the favorite to win re-election between him and a Democrat.
In fact, it is the very real possibility of a primary challenge that the senator will have to face before the actual election campaign can commence. All those accusations of being less than a true conservative will come back to haunt him, no matter how he may feel about his record.
The Hill reports that the Senate Conservatives Fund (SCF), the PAC started by Jim DeMint, has vowed to launch a primary challenge in order to place a true conservative in McCain’s seat. SCF president Ken Cuccinelli apparently sent an email to supporters on Tuesday saying that “there are few Republicans who have betrayed our conservative principles more than John McCain.” For that reason, the SCF has launched its own effort to stop the Senator’s bid for a sixth term. The email includes a petition for people to sign to pledge their support for stopping the senator’s run.
By Charles Carlisle
Name *
Email *
Website
More Story
Copyright 2014 CDA News - All Right Reserved

