 
Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) wants to "defeat the Washington machine," according to a video , released Sunday, previewing the lawmaker's expected 2016 rollout.
The populist message fits neatly into the identity Paul has sought to project during his brief time in Washington. And to that end, the proto-campaign video — while muddling Paul's recent lurches to the right on issues like foreign policy — features political commentators from both sides of the aisle talking up Paul or his potential candidacy. Here, Newt Gingrich; there, Jon Stewart.
Paul has a rally planned Tuesday in Louisville, Ky., where he is expected to announce a presidential campaign. So far, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) is the only major candidate from either party to officially declare a White House bid. — Jon Terbush
 
The sequel to 2012's mega-grossing The Avengers hits theaters in less than a month — and if you just can't wait to see the superheroic team back in action, Marvel has thrown out one last appetizer. This final trailer for Avengers: Age of Ultron indivually highlights every member of the team, and shows off the film's numerous jaw-dropping action sequences:
In addition to Avengers staples like Iron Man, Black Widow, and Captain America, this new trailer offers a glimpse of the team's two newest heroes, Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver. We'll see how they fit in when Avengers: Age of Ultron arrives on May 1.
 
The only complete skeleton from the Battle of Waterloo found in the last 200 years was discovered under a parking lot, and that's not even the most interesting thing about it.
The skeleton belongs to a Hanoverian man with a hunchback, the archaeologists announced. The find is truly unique, though, because the musket ball that killed the man was still stuck in the skeleton's ribs. The skeleton was first discovered in 2012, but archaeologists have just now revealed the details and significance of the find.
Skeleton retrieved from Battle of Waterloo still has musket ball lodged between ribs http://t.co/dHDmAy3zuD pic.twitter.com/txaRkrUx7C
One historian, Gareth Glover, believes he knows exactly who the skeleton belongs to: Friedrich Brandt, a 23-year-old private in the King's German Legion of George III. Brandt was killed by a musket ball, The Independent reports . The skeleton was found with a piece of wood with the initials "F. C. B.," lending credence to Glover's suggestion. Only three German soldiers bore those initials, and one was on a different battlefield than where the skeleton was discovered.
The find is also unique because the skeleton is still intact — Glover told The Independent that most Napoleonic-era soldiers' remains were ground into fertilizer in the 1830s and 1840s.
On Monday, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the country will begin monitoring air quality in 10 cities. India's national air quality index will monitor and reduce carbon emissions.
Business Standard notes that India has been seen as having an "insensitivity" to climate change, and its cities are believed to have some of the world's worst pollution. Modi hopes the new index will change that perception.
"We must think of traditional methods to tackle environmental issues," Modi said at a conference of environment and forest ministers in India. "There can be green solutions in our age-old traditions."
Modi also encouraged citizens to do their part for the environment, saying that change won't be possible "unless we bring a change in our lifestyle." He encouraged companies to focus on solid waste management and recycling waste water so that it could be sent to farmers as fertilizer. The fertilizer, in turn, could help provide affordable vegetables for India's citizens.
Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R) speaks Spanish, is married to a woman born in Mexico, is father to a prominent Republican outreach ambassador to Latino voters, and lived in Venezuela for two years. But genetically he is a member of the Bush family — which makes his signed declaration, on a 2009 voter-registration form in Florida, that he is "Hispanic" puzzling.
A spokeswoman for Bush, when contacted by The New York Times , offered no explanation for why the probable 2016 presidential candidate checked Hispanic in the "race/ethnicity" box. But according to the Florida Division of Elections, the state voter registration form "requires an original signature because you are swearing or affirming to an oath ." So expect an explanation before Bush throws his hat in the ring.
 
A handful of states cover medical costs for transgender Medicaid recipients, but Oregon is the only one that uses Medicaid funds to help pre-transgender kids delay puberty. Temporarily suppressing puberty requires a shot of a drug called Lupron every three months, at a cost of about $7,500 per injection, but "people with gender dysphoria that did not receive treatment had a much higher rate of hospitalizations or ER visits or doctors visits for depression and anxiety, and they had a pretty significantly high suicide rate," Dr. Ariel Smits tells NPR .
Puberty Suppression Now Choice For Teens On Medicaid In Oregon http://t.co/mN6EuOjBe9
Lupron is also used to treat prostate cancer and help children who start puberty too early, and there are side effects. But for tweens who decide to transition from male to female or vice versa, it's much easier if they never develop the characteristics of their birth sex. You can learn more in the radio story below, from Oregon Public Broadcasting's Kristian Foden-Vencil. —Peter Weber
 
Archaeologists in Bedale in northern England have discovered a remarkable Roman villa at the proposed construction site for a new bypass. The villa includes an ancient sort of central heating system under its concrete floor.
The villa features a room that was heated by what was known as a hypcocaust heating system, Culture 24 reports . The room drew hot air beneath the floor from an external fire, and hollow "box-flue" wall tiles attached to the stone walls allowed the heat to travel out through the top of the building, using air vents. The walls of the heated room featured colorful, painted wall plaster, and the archaeologists believe it was used for dining or other entertaining.
Golf
 
The game of golf may have been born in Scotland in the 1400s, but the U.S. has owned the sport since the 1890s, The Economist explains. America has roughly half the world's golf courses and golfers — but both those numbers have dropped since 2006. In trying to explain why golf is losing players and failing to attract a new generation to the game, The Economist lists three reasons, ranging from the cultural to the physical. None of those reasons is Tiger Woods, though if you include his fall from grace in the mix — as The Economist does — that makes four. Watch the report below. —Peter Weber

