Astros rally to defeat Orioles
Astros rally to defeat Orioles
BALTIMORE -- The Houston Astros have made a habit out of scoring runs late in games this season. They did it once more Tuesday night, and that helped them pull out a win over the Orioles.
Jason Castro gave Houston the lead for good with a tiebreaking double in the seventh inning, and Luis Valbeuna added a two-run single in the eighth as the Astros rallied late for a 4-1 victory over the Baltimore Orioles on Tuesday night.
The Astros now have scored 85 runs in the seventh inning or later -- tops in the major leagues. Oakland ranked second with 70 heading into Tuesday's games, but Houston manager A.J. Hinch certainly has noticed his team hits better later.
"We have good at-bats; we tend to have better at-bats as the game goes along," Hinch said. "I don't really know why. I don't have a reason -- but we do. We lock in a little bit towards the end, and as we get runners on base it shows up."
The Astros scored two in both the seventh and eighth to rebound after the Orioles (20-23) took a 1-0 lead in the sixth. Designated hitter Jimmy Paredes led off with a double, moved to third on center fielder Adam Jones' grounder to short and scored when first baseman Chris Davis hit a sacrifice fly to short right.
Houston then began its late-game rally with the two runs in the seventh. First baseman Chris Carter tied the game with a two-out single to left, scoring designated hitter Evan Gattis, who doubled to start the inning.
Castro, the catcher, then followed Carter with a double to deep right-center that drove in the first baseman for a 2-1 Houston lead. The Astros added two more in the eighth when third baseman Valbuena lined a two-run single to right.
Valbuena snapped an 0-for-15 skid with a fourth-inning double and finished the game 2-for-4 as the Astros are off to their best start ever after 47 games at 30-17.
"Everybody's focused because the game is close," Valbuena said. "It's like a family. Everybody goes and enjoys the game. That's what we do right now."
Astros starter Scott Feldman (4-4) gave up one run on four hits in six innings, wriggling out of trouble a few times against his former team.
Right-hander Luke Gregerson earned his 13th save with a scoreless ninth.
Baltimore right-hander Chris Tillman (2-6) took a hard-luck loss. He gave up two runs on six hits in seven innings, although Houston didn't have an at-bat with a runner in scoring position until the two-run seventh.
Tillman lost his fifth consecutive decision, tying a career high, after winning two of his first three.
"He got a change-up out over the plate and a breaking ball in a bad spot (in the seventh)," Orioles manager Buck Showalter said. "If we swing the bats a little better, those things aren't as much of an issue. Tilly was the reason we were in the ballgame by the way he pitched."
The Orioles' recent offensive struggles continued. They put runners on base in seven of the ninth innings and created some chances they could not cash in on.
They finished 0-for-5 with runners in scoring position and left five. The Orioles now have scored only eight runs in the last four games.
Paredes snapped out of a recent 0-for-6 skid with a 3-for-4 effort in this game, but the Orioles finished with just five hits overall.
"We've got to get offense," catcher Caleb Joseph said. "We knew one (run) probably wasn't going to be enough. We tried really hard to get a couple more but just couldn't push it across."
NOTES: The Orioles recalled C Steve Clevenger from Triple-A Norfolk and designated C Ryan Lavarnway for assignment. Clevenger will back up C Caleb Joseph, who will start until C Matt Wieters (elbow) returns from his rehab assignment, possibly on June 4. ... Wieters began his rehab assignment with Double-A Bowie on Tuesday. He hasn't played in the majors this season ... Astros manager A.J. Hinch expressed his sympathies to the team's friends and fans back in Houston, which was battered by torrential rains and flooding Monday night. "It's sad to see our city under such duress," he said. "It's really sad. Our thoughts are with them." ... Houston 2B Jose Altuve leads in the American League All-Star voting for his position. If Altuve wins that race, he would be the first Astro to earn an All-Star start since the team moved to the American League two years ago.
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


Sections
Jimenez set to square off vs. McHugh in rubber match
Email
Print
Jimenez goes seven strong 1:01
5/16/15: Ubaldo Jimenez tosses seven sharp innings of two-run ball against the Angels, striking out six while not giving up a walk
By Connor Smolensky / MLB.com |
0 COMMENTS
The Orioles and Astros will play their last game at Camden Yards this season on Wednesday before Houston hosts Baltimore for a four-game series next week.
Ubaldo Jimenez (3-3, 2.82) will be on the mound for the Orioles and is coming off a start against the Marlins where he pitched only four innings, allowing three runs on seven hits and one walk in a no-decision. Jimenez will go for his second win in May.
The Astros will counter with Collin McHugh (5-2, 4.06 ERA) who, over the last four months of regular season play, dating back to Aug. 1, 2014, has posted a 12-2 record with a 2.84 ERA in 19 starts. McHugh has faced the Orioles just once in his career where he did not factor into the decision after giving up two runs on seven hits in 6 1/3 innings last season.
Things to know about this game
• Jimenez is coming off a short outing, but has been perfect against Houston in his career. The right-hander owns a career 4-0 record with a 2.24 ERA in nine starts against the Astros.
• McHugh recorded his sixth quality start of the season in his last start, tossing seven innings and allowing three runs on nine hits. The nine hits were a season high, and the Astros lost to the Tigers, 6-2.
• The Orioles are still waiting to hear word on the suspension of Brian Matusz. The relief pitcher was suspended eight games by Major League Baseball on Monday for having a foreign substance on his arm in the Orioles' weekend series against the Marlins. Matusz appealed the suspension and the Orioles are waiting on a verdict. If Matusz is to be suspended, the Orioles will have to play a man down for the duration of his suspension.
Connor Smolensky is an associate reporter for MLB.com. This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

