Astros rally to defeat Orioles
Astros rally to defeat Orioles
BALTIMORE -- The Houston Astros have made a habit out of scoring runs late in games this season. They did it once more Tuesday night, and that helped them pull out a win over the Orioles.
Jason Castro gave Houston the lead for good with a tiebreaking double in the seventh inning, and Luis Valbeuna added a two-run single in the eighth as the Astros rallied late for a 4-1 victory over the Baltimore Orioles on Tuesday night.
The Astros now have scored 85 runs in the seventh inning or later -- tops in the major leagues. Oakland ranked second with 70 heading into Tuesday's games, but Houston manager A.J. Hinch certainly has noticed his team hits better later.
"We have good at-bats; we tend to have better at-bats as the game goes along," Hinch said. "I don't really know why. I don't have a reason -- but we do. We lock in a little bit towards the end, and as we get runners on base it shows up."
The Astros scored two in both the seventh and eighth to rebound after the Orioles (20-23) took a 1-0 lead in the sixth. Designated hitter Jimmy Paredes led off with a double, moved to third on center fielder Adam Jones' grounder to short and scored when first baseman Chris Davis hit a sacrifice fly to short right.
Houston then began its late-game rally with the two runs in the seventh. First baseman Chris Carter tied the game with a two-out single to left, scoring designated hitter Evan Gattis, who doubled to start the inning.
Castro, the catcher, then followed Carter with a double to deep right-center that drove in the first baseman for a 2-1 Houston lead. The Astros added two more in the eighth when third baseman Valbuena lined a two-run single to right.
Valbuena snapped an 0-for-15 skid with a fourth-inning double and finished the game 2-for-4 as the Astros are off to their best start ever after 47 games at 30-17.
"Everybody's focused because the game is close," Valbuena said. "It's like a family. Everybody goes and enjoys the game. That's what we do right now."
Astros starter Scott Feldman (4-4) gave up one run on four hits in six innings, wriggling out of trouble a few times against his former team.
Right-hander Luke Gregerson earned his 13th save with a scoreless ninth.
Baltimore right-hander Chris Tillman (2-6) took a hard-luck loss. He gave up two runs on six hits in seven innings, although Houston didn't have an at-bat with a runner in scoring position until the two-run seventh.
Tillman lost his fifth consecutive decision, tying a career high, after winning two of his first three.
"He got a change-up out over the plate and a breaking ball in a bad spot (in the seventh)," Orioles manager Buck Showalter said. "If we swing the bats a little better, those things aren't as much of an issue. Tilly was the reason we were in the ballgame by the way he pitched."
The Orioles' recent offensive struggles continued. They put runners on base in seven of the ninth innings and created some chances they could not cash in on.
They finished 0-for-5 with runners in scoring position and left five. The Orioles now have scored only eight runs in the last four games.
Paredes snapped out of a recent 0-for-6 skid with a 3-for-4 effort in this game, but the Orioles finished with just five hits overall.
"We've got to get offense," catcher Caleb Joseph said. "We knew one (run) probably wasn't going to be enough. We tried really hard to get a couple more but just couldn't push it across."
NOTES: The Orioles recalled C Steve Clevenger from Triple-A Norfolk and designated C Ryan Lavarnway for assignment. Clevenger will back up C Caleb Joseph, who will start until C Matt Wieters (elbow) returns from his rehab assignment, possibly on June 4. ... Wieters began his rehab assignment with Double-A Bowie on Tuesday. He hasn't played in the majors this season ... Astros manager A.J. Hinch expressed his sympathies to the team's friends and fans back in Houston, which was battered by torrential rains and flooding Monday night. "It's sad to see our city under such duress," he said. "It's really sad. Our thoughts are with them." ... Houston 2B Jose Altuve leads in the American League All-Star voting for his position. If Altuve wins that race, he would be the first Astro to earn an All-Star start since the team moved to the American League two years ago.
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


David Ginsburg, Ap Sports Writer
Updated 8:31 pm, Tuesday, May 26, 2015
gallery_thumbnails_show|article-gallery-6288070|article-gallery-6288070|0
gallery_overlay_open|article-gallery-6288070|article-gallery-6288070|0
gallery_overlay_open_thumbs|article-gallery-6288070|article-gallery-6288070|0
Image 1 of 6
Baltimore Orioles starting pitcher Chris Tillman throws to the Houston Astros in the first inning of a baseball game, Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Baltimore.
Photo: Patrick Semansky, AP
Image 2 of 6
Baltimore Orioles' Steve Pearce, left, Adam Jones and Manny Machado, right, watch from the dugout in the ninth inning of a baseball game against the Houston Astros, Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Baltimore. Houston won 4-1.
Photo: Patrick Semansky, AP
Image 3 of 6
Baltimore Orioles' Jimmy Paredes, center, high-fives teammates in the dugout after scoring on a sacrifice fly ball by Chris Davis in the sixth inning of a baseball game against the Houston Astros, Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Baltimore.
Photo: Patrick Semansky, AP
Image 4 of 6
Baltimore Orioles' Chris Davis watches his sacrifice fly ball in front of Houston Astros catcher Jason Castro in the sixth inning of a baseball game, Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Baltimore. Jimmy Paredes scored on the play.
Photo: Patrick Semansky, AP
Baltimore Orioles' Chris Davis watches his sacrifice fly ball in...
Image 5 of 6
Baltimore Orioles starting pitcher Chris Tillman wipes his face after Houston Astros' Chris Carter scored on a double by Jason Castro in the seventh inning of a baseball game, Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Baltimore.
Photo: Patrick Semansky, AP
Image 6 of 6
Baltimore Orioles shortstop J.J. Hardy, right, tries to control a throw to second base as Houston Astros' Evan Gattis safely doubles in the seventh inning of a baseball game, Tuesday, May 26, 2015, in Baltimore.
Photo: Patrick Semansky, AP
Baltimore Orioles shortstop J.J. Hardy, right, tries to control a...
Tillman's effort wasted in Orioles' 4-1 loss to Astros
1 / 6
gallery_thumbs_close|article-gallery-6288070|article-gallery-6288070|0
gallery_overlay_close|article-gallery-6288070|article-gallery-6288070|0
BALTIMORE (AP) — Chris Tillman remains in search of his first win since April 18, and the Baltimore Orioles are still looking for a breakout performance from their lackluster offense.
The Orioles managed only five hits and wasted a fine outing by Tillman in a 4-1 loss to the Houston Astros on Tuesday night.
Tillman (2-6) allowed two runs and five hits over seven innings. He's winless in his last six starts and has dropped five straight decisions, tying a career high.
To be fair, in this one the right-hander didn't get a whole lot of support.
"It's a step in the right direction for a guy we know is capable of pitching at a good level," manager Buck Showalter said. "We obviously haven't been giving our pitchers much margin for error, but he gave us a real good chance to win tonight. Probably even a little bit better than that."
Jimmy Paredes had three hits, but the Orioles fell to 1-16 when scoring fewer than four runs.
"When you're not scoring a lot of runs, the tendency is to press and try to overdo it," cleanup hitter Chris Davis said. "I think you've seen that in the last few games, just guys getting out of their approach, out of their rhythm and trying to do too much with pitches that aren't good pitches to hit."
Scott Feldman (4-4) gave up one run and four hits in six innings against his former team. The right-hander was 5-6 in his lone season with the Orioles (2013) but is 4-0 with a 2.41 ERA lifetime against them in Baltimore.
"Fortunately at the right times I made some good pitches and got them to hit it to the right place," Feldman said.
Pat Neshek gave up a hit in the seventh, Chad Qualls worked a 1-2-3 eighth and Luke Gregerson got three straight outs for his 13th save.
"It's hard to score on us late when we can hand it to the bullpen," Houston manager A.J. Hinch said.
Tillman blanked the Astros before stumbling in the seventh immediately after Baltimore took a 1-0 lead. After Evan Gattis hit a leadoff double, Tillman got two straight outs before Chris Carter delivered an RBI single and scored on a double by Jason Castro .
"Just a couple pitches beat him tonight," catcher Caleb Joseph said of Tillman. "It's unfortunate that they were back-to-back."
Luis Valbuena added a two-run double in the eighth, also with two outs.
Feldman and Tillman dominated the early innings before the scoreless duel ended in the sixth. Paredes led off with a double, took third on a groundout and scored when Davis lunged at a breaking ball, sending a fly to right field that was deep enough to enable Paredes to tag up and reach the plate standing up.
Tillman walked the leadoff man in the second, third and fourth innings but avoided damage. The last time, Preston Tucker was cut down at the plate trying to score on a two-out double by Valbuena.
The Orioles got into a pattern at the plate, too, grounding into double plays to end each of the first three innings.
THREE SPOT
Astros: For the first time this season, rookie LF Preston Tucker started in the No. 3 spot in the batting order, although Hinch wouldn't make a long-term commitment to the move. Tucker went 0 for 3 with a walk.
Orioles: No. 3 hitter Adam Jones went 0 for 3 and is stuck in a 3-for-25 slump. He entered the month batting .400 and is now at .310.
TRAINERS ROOM
Astros: RHP Samuel Deduno (lower back strain) worked a bullpen session Tuesday and is expected to participate in a rehab assignment on Friday for AAA Fresno. ... RHP Brett Oberholtzer (finger blister) is scheduled to start Wednesday for Fresno.
Orioles: SS J.J. Hardy returned to action after being pulled from Monday's game with back spasms. ... Matt Wieters (elbow) began his rehab assignment by catching for Double-A Bowie. He went 2 for 4 at the plate.
ON DECK
Astros: Collin McHugh (5-2) starts for Houston in the series finale Wednesday. In his last 19 starts, he's 12-2 and the Astros are 15-4.
Orioles: Ubaldo Jimenez (3-3) is 4-0 with a 2.24 ERA lifetime against Houston.
Latest Sports Videos

