Astros rally to defeat Orioles
Astros rally to defeat Orioles
BALTIMORE -- The Houston Astros have made a habit out of scoring runs late in games this season. They did it once more Tuesday night, and that helped them pull out a win over the Orioles.
Jason Castro gave Houston the lead for good with a tiebreaking double in the seventh inning, and Luis Valbeuna added a two-run single in the eighth as the Astros rallied late for a 4-1 victory over the Baltimore Orioles on Tuesday night.
The Astros now have scored 85 runs in the seventh inning or later -- tops in the major leagues. Oakland ranked second with 70 heading into Tuesday's games, but Houston manager A.J. Hinch certainly has noticed his team hits better later.
"We have good at-bats; we tend to have better at-bats as the game goes along," Hinch said. "I don't really know why. I don't have a reason -- but we do. We lock in a little bit towards the end, and as we get runners on base it shows up."
The Astros scored two in both the seventh and eighth to rebound after the Orioles (20-23) took a 1-0 lead in the sixth. Designated hitter Jimmy Paredes led off with a double, moved to third on center fielder Adam Jones' grounder to short and scored when first baseman Chris Davis hit a sacrifice fly to short right.
Houston then began its late-game rally with the two runs in the seventh. First baseman Chris Carter tied the game with a two-out single to left, scoring designated hitter Evan Gattis, who doubled to start the inning.
Castro, the catcher, then followed Carter with a double to deep right-center that drove in the first baseman for a 2-1 Houston lead. The Astros added two more in the eighth when third baseman Valbuena lined a two-run single to right.
Valbuena snapped an 0-for-15 skid with a fourth-inning double and finished the game 2-for-4 as the Astros are off to their best start ever after 47 games at 30-17.
"Everybody's focused because the game is close," Valbuena said. "It's like a family. Everybody goes and enjoys the game. That's what we do right now."
Astros starter Scott Feldman (4-4) gave up one run on four hits in six innings, wriggling out of trouble a few times against his former team.
Right-hander Luke Gregerson earned his 13th save with a scoreless ninth.
Baltimore right-hander Chris Tillman (2-6) took a hard-luck loss. He gave up two runs on six hits in seven innings, although Houston didn't have an at-bat with a runner in scoring position until the two-run seventh.
Tillman lost his fifth consecutive decision, tying a career high, after winning two of his first three.
"He got a change-up out over the plate and a breaking ball in a bad spot (in the seventh)," Orioles manager Buck Showalter said. "If we swing the bats a little better, those things aren't as much of an issue. Tilly was the reason we were in the ballgame by the way he pitched."
The Orioles' recent offensive struggles continued. They put runners on base in seven of the ninth innings and created some chances they could not cash in on.
They finished 0-for-5 with runners in scoring position and left five. The Orioles now have scored only eight runs in the last four games.
Paredes snapped out of a recent 0-for-6 skid with a 3-for-4 effort in this game, but the Orioles finished with just five hits overall.
"We've got to get offense," catcher Caleb Joseph said. "We knew one (run) probably wasn't going to be enough. We tried really hard to get a couple more but just couldn't push it across."
NOTES: The Orioles recalled C Steve Clevenger from Triple-A Norfolk and designated C Ryan Lavarnway for assignment. Clevenger will back up C Caleb Joseph, who will start until C Matt Wieters (elbow) returns from his rehab assignment, possibly on June 4. ... Wieters began his rehab assignment with Double-A Bowie on Tuesday. He hasn't played in the majors this season ... Astros manager A.J. Hinch expressed his sympathies to the team's friends and fans back in Houston, which was battered by torrential rains and flooding Monday night. "It's sad to see our city under such duress," he said. "It's really sad. Our thoughts are with them." ... Houston 2B Jose Altuve leads in the American League All-Star voting for his position. If Altuve wins that race, he would be the first Astro to earn an All-Star start since the team moved to the American League two years ago.
Trending On Reuters
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here .


Astros first in AL to 30 wins after beating O's
Email
Print
Carter's game-tying single 0:28
5/26/15: Chris Carter ties the game up at 1 in the 7th with a line-drive base hit to left field
By Brittany Ghiroli and Brian McTaggart / MLB.com |
+
0 COMMENTS
BALTIMORE -- The Astros have won 30 games and May isn't over yet.
Houston, off to the best start in franchise history, used a solid start from Scott Feldman and two RBIs from Luis Valbuena to record a 4-1 series-evening win over the Orioles Tuesday night.
"Feldman, I thought, had to battle his command the entire night," Astros manager A.J. Hinch said. "Obviously, he pitched to the defense very well with a couple of double plays that were big. I thought our defense played very well behind him and we made plays when we had to. The game in the middle had the chance to go either direction and we ended up getting a lot of two-out base hits, which are hard to come by but good when they come."
Baltimore's only score came from Chris Davis ' sacrifice fly in the sixth inning as the O's have been held to two or fewer runs in three of their past four games.
MOMENTS THAT MATTERED
Castro's go-ahead double
HOU@BAL: Castro cranks a go-ahead double to the gap
5/26/15: Jason Castro puts the Astros on top in the 7th with an RBI double into the outfield gap, scoring Chris Carter from first
More late-inning magic: The Astros, who entered Tuesday having scored a Major League-best 81 runs in the seventh inning or later, were up to their old tricks. They scored twice in the seventh to take a 2-1 lead on an RBI single by Chris Carter and an RBI double by Jason Castro , and Valbuena smacked a two-run single in the eighth. More >
Feldman's solid start
HOU@BAL: Feldman allows one run over six innings
5/26/15: Scott Feldman goes six innings, allowing one run on four hits and three walks while striking out two Orioles
Feldman gets big double plays: Feldman won his second consecutive decision by holding the Orioles to one run and four hits in six innings. He was given a boost by getting double-play ground balls to end the first, second and third innings and pitched out of trouble repeatedly.
"I had little spurts there tonight where I wasn't too good, but fortunately at the right time made some good pitches and got them to hit it right at guys, and they made some nice turns out there," Feldman said. More >
O's bats go silent...again: Baltimore had five hits on Tuesday, three of which came from Jimmy Paredes , as the inconsistent offense again reared its head. The Orioles have been held to just seven runs total over their last 40 innings.
"I just think we've got to slow the game down," Davis said. "When you're not scoring a lot of runs, you're not swinging the bats well or like you know you can. The tendency is to press and try to overdo it, and I think you've seen that in the last few games, just guys getting out of their approach, out of their rhythm and trying to do too much with pitches that aren't good pitches to hit." More >
Tillman's strong outing
HOU@BAL: Tillman fans five over seven innings of work
5/26/15: Chris Tillman goes seven innings, allowing two runs on five hits and three walks while striking out five Astros
Tillman quality, but winless: The Orioles' Opening Day starter, Chris Tillman turned in just his second seven-inning outing of the year. But the righty had nothing to show for it, as Tillman allowed a pair of seventh-inning runs that proved to be the difference.
"Lot of positives, defensively and the way I was able to execute some pitches. All four of them were there for the most part," Tillman said of what he took away from the game.
"I think I was able to execute some pitches and get out of situations. I wasn't very good at getting the first hitter of the inning, but it put some stress on you to get pitches and to get a double play or some quick outs. I'd like to be better with that first hitter."
Tillman is winless since April 18.
Orioles combine for out at home
HOU@BAL: Orioles nab Tucker at home to preserve tie
5/26/15: Luis Valbuena rips a double to left, but David Lough and J.J. Hardy relay the ball home to nab Preston Tucker trying to score
Orioles flash leather: Baltimore's defense kept Tuesday's game close. The O's threw out three baserunners trying to score, highlighted by Tommy Hunter 's fantastic eighth-inning grab. Hunter got a glove on Preston Tucker 's sharp hopper to the mound and was able to get George Springer caught between third base and home plate.
REPLAY REVIEW
HOU@BAL: Paredes steals third, call confirmed in 4th
5/26/15: Jimmy Paredes steals third base, the Astros challenge the call and after review the play is confirmed
Astros manager A.J. Hinch lost a challenge in the fourth inning. Hinch challenged that Paredes was out at third base on a double steal, but the replay confirmed the safe call was correct.
QUOTABLE
"Tilly was the reason we were in the ballgame by the way he pitched. Of course, their guy pitched pretty well, too. We didn't make many adjustments to patterns we knew were coming." -- O's manager Buck Showalter
"We split the series in Detroit and have a chance to have a winning road trip. All positive signs. That's been our goal in series is to really only focus on today's game. If you let them go any further than that, it's about winning a series and now we have a chance." -- Hinch
WHAT'S NEXT
Astros: Right-hander Collin McHugh (5-2, 4.06 ERA) looks to win for the second time in three starts when the Astros wrap up their road trip at 3:35 p.m. CT against the Orioles at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. He has six quality starts in nine outings this year, but allowed a season-high nine hits in his last start on Friday at Detroit.
Orioles: Baltimore will send right-hander Ubaldo Jimenez to the mound for Wednesday's series finale against Houston at 4:35 p.m. ET. After winning a rotation spot this spring, Jimenez has been the O's most consistent starter, going 3-3 with a 2.82 ERA.
Brittany Ghiroli and Brian McTaggart are reporters for MLB.com. This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs.
Share This

