Username or Email Address
facebook
Sunday, April 12, 2015
RICHMOND, Va. (AP) — Hitting 60-plus battlefields in four years during the Civil War’s 150th anniversary takes as much passion and commitment as getting married or having a child.
Rob Orrison has squeezed in all of that since 2011, albeit not without some marital compromises, such as a wedding day on the anniversary of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee’s surrender at Appomattox Court House, Va.
RICHMOND, Va. (AP) — Hitting 60-plus battlefields in four years during the Civil War’s 150th anniversary takes as much passion and commitment as getting married or having a child.
Rob Orrison has squeezed in all of that since 2011, albeit not without some marital compromises, such as a wedding day on the anniversary of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee’s surrender at Appomattox Court House, Va.
Next week, Orrison will conclude his own epic march at the place where the curtain fell on the Civil War, with his spouse, Jamie, and 2-year-old son, Carter, accompanying him.
“There are worse hobbies,” Orrison said while acknowledging his wife’s occasional impatience.
Orrison estimates he has spent well over $10,000 and logged “thousands and thousands” of miles on the road, plus a couple of flights to his farthest destinations.
Name a Civil War battlefield, and he has been there.
Petersburg? Yes.
Antietam, Perryville, Chancellorsville — been there, done that.
Orrison, 39, marched 3 miserable miles on a dark night in a drenching rain at Harpers Ferry, a rare low point in his travels.
He stood under a glittering starlit sky at 4 a.m. at Shiloh, a highlight. On his way, he wondered, “Who’s going to be here?” Some 2,000 people had the same idea.
“It was pitch black, nothing but the stars, and seeing the same kind of things soldiers saw 150 years ago,” he said. “That was pretty neat.”
At the commemoration of the Battle of First Manassas, he sweltered in 110-degree heat.
In recent weeks, he has been to Petersburg and Sailor’s Creek, and stopped in Richmond a week ahead of Appomattox for the fall of the former capital of the Confederacy. All are dominoes leading to Appomattox, about 90 miles west of Richmond, and Lee’s surrender to his Union counterpart, Gen. Ulysses S. Grant.
Orrison compares his travels to a baseball fan’s pilgrimage to every Major League ballpark.
“It’s the exact same thing, to say you were there,” he said. “I just enjoy going, and the fact is that when you go to an event there are usually a couple hundred other people who are weird like yourself.”
The National Park Service has aimed to attract more visitors and a more diverse audience during the war’s sesquicentennial, adding emphasis on the roles of slaves and freed people, women and civilian life, said Carol Shively, coordinator of the agency’s Civil War to Civil Rights Commemoration.
Though exact figures aren’t yet available, attendance at some parks is up as much as 30 percent, Shively said in an email.
Many of the battlefields he has visited during the sesquicentennial are return trips, but the 150th has added new layers of history to explore, he said.
“The tours are much more in-depth,” he said. “I’ve learned more because they had more details than they usually do.”
A chief takeaway from his campaign: A century-and-a-half on, there’s a deep, abiding public interest in the nation’s bloodiest conflict.
He recalls that a graduate professor told him people are drawn to history for two reasons: to be educated and entertained.
“People want to hear a good story, and that’s what entertainment is,” Orrison said. “I think these places tell good stories. Everyone likes a good story.”
SHARE
By default the full name from you user profile will be displayed with your comment.  You can edit this at http://www.columbiatribune.com/users/admin/profile/edit/ .
Subscriber
Username or Email Address
facebook
1911 W Worley St
Joe Machens Ford Lincoln is the #1 dealer group in the State of Missouri!!
8:42 am, Tue Apr 7, 2015
Login
facebook

