Recent
Recent
Experts weigh in on life's money mistakes.
RECENT
Busch Stadium 
Recent
MORE
MORE
RECENT
Saved
16 hours ago  •  By Summer Ballentine • Associated Press
»
The Missouri State Capitol in Jefferson City on May 17, 2013. Photo by Robert Cohen, rcohen@post-dispatch.com
JEFFERSON CITY • Republican lawmakers are using their large majorities this session to try to limit the social safety net on a number of fronts, despite concerns from Democrats and advocates that the proposals would harm the state's most vulnerable residents.
Republican efforts to limit welfare benefits and trim social service spending could soon cause a showdown with Democratic Gov. Jay Nixon. If they stick together, Republicans have more than enough members in both chambers to override potential vetoes.
Tensions between Nixon and Republicans looking to trim the state's social safety net have already flared. In addition to GOP proposals to limit help for unemployed and low-income families, lead budget writer Sen. Kurt Schaefer, R-Columbia, is pushing for funding cuts to the state's social services, health and mental health departments next fiscal year.
His recommendation would give those agencies $130 million less than the House suggested, prompting Nixon to intervene Friday and urge lawmakers to revise the spending plan.
In a letter to lawmakers, the governor called Schaefer's spending proposal "devastating."
Nixon instead proposed using surplus funds now in the Senate version of the budget and $80 million more in projected revenue to sustain increased funding for the departments.
But Schaefer has said reining in welfare growth is needed, and House leaders have criticized the departments as wasteful.
"I bet you I can walk through the departments and find empty offices," House Speaker John Diehl said. "There's enough money to do this."
Debate on the budget is coupled with a number of Republican-backed bills to trim social service programs.
"These are folks that are hanging on by their fingernails, and we are sort of tapping on each finger at a time to make them lose grip," said Jeanette Mott Oxford, a former Democratic state lawmaker who is executive director of the social advocacy group Empower Missouri. "It's just a really, really desperate situation."
The Senate is close to a final vote that would send legislation to Nixon's desk that would reduce the number of weeks of benefits that unemployed workers can receive as the state's unemployment rate declines. The bill could cap the available benefits to as few as 13 weeks instead of the current 20.
Lawmakers failed to override Nixon's veto last year of similar legislation. But the House, which this session has the most GOP members ever, voted 112-47 in favor of the measure — exceeding the 109 votes that would be needed to override a veto.
House and Senate negotiators on Monday are set to hash out differences in another proposal that would impose further restrictions on Missouri's social safety net.
That bill would cut the total number of years low-income families can receive monthly financial aid through Temporary Assistance for Needy Families. Legislators now are deciding whether to reduce the current five-year maximum to four, as the Senate has endorsed, or as little as 2½, which has been approved by the House.
The measure also would mean families risk losing access to benefits if parents are found to be noncompliant with work requirements. Republican backers have denied that the program would mean children also lose benefits.
Savings from the measure would be used for childcare, job training and transportation assistance, with the goal of helping the unemployed and underemployed become self-sufficient.
Other bills that so far have gained less traction include proposals for restrictions on food stamps and a ban on cashing out allowances from Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, which currently are provided through an electronic card. 
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Tags
Email:
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.
Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.
Login here with www.stltoday.com account:
Username & Password Required!

