Texas prison officials were preparing to execute a prisoner later Thursday for the 2002 killing of a Dallas-area police officer during a shootout following the killing of a customer outside of a convenience store. More >>
Texas prison officials on Thursday executed a man convicted in the slaying of a Dallas-area police officer during a 2002 shootout that followed the killing of a customer outside a convenience store. More >>
Utah's governor and a Latino community advocate called for answers Wednesday in a prison inmate's death that occurred after dialysis providers failed to show up for his treatment. More >>
Utah's prison director said Thursday that he'll fire someone if needed after he investigates the death of an inmate who went without dialysis for two days when providers failed to show up for treatment. More >>
California's top utility regulator is asking if the state's largest utility is too big for safety. More >>
California regulators approved a record $1.6 billion penalty Thursday against PG&E for a 2010 gas pipeline explosion that killed eight people and destroyed more than three dozen homes in suburban San Francisco. More >>
The South Carolina police officer facing a murder charge after video surfaced of him shooting a fleeing suspect in the back was allowed to stay on the force despite an earlier complaint he used excessive force... More >>
The fatal shooting of an unarmed black man fleeing from a police officer has stirred outrage around the nation, but people in this South Carolina city aren't surprised, calling it inevitable in a police department they... More >>
   
   
Associated Press
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) - Eight years after Mike Huckabee tapped the support of evangelical homeschooling families as part of his winning coalition in the 2008 Iowa Republican caucuses, a lineup of GOP hopefuls is seeking to duplicate that effort.
Five Republican 2016 prospects courted homeschool families in Des Moines on Thursday at an annual gathering sponsored by a statewide group called the Network of Iowa Christian Home Educators. While the number of homeschoolers in the state may be relatively small, they are viewed as a well-organized subset of the evangelical population that participates in the political process.
"Some of the most coveted activists in the Iowa caucuses are homeschool parents," said conservative radio show host Steve Deace, himself a homeschool parent who appeared at Thursday's event.
Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, joined former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal for an afternoon panel discussion before hundreds of parents. Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry joined a portion of the program at the state Capitol earlier in the day.
Huckabee, who noted he had appointed a homeschooling parent to the state education board when he was governor, said he's aware of the "extraordinary sacrifice" parents make to school their children at home.
Santorum said he and his wife taught their children at home. Jindal and Cruz also offered their support for homeschooling and educational options for parents.
"I think school choice is the civil rights issue of the 21st century," said Cruz.
As of 2012, Iowa had at least 10,732 homeschooled students in the state. A more recent number is not available because many reporting requirements have been eliminated.
The political influence of the movement was made clear in 2013, when it won changes to state law to reduce regulations on homeschooling. Limiting government oversight of homeschooling remains a priority, as well as concerns over Common Core state standards - voluntary benchmarks that spell out what children should know in certain grades.
Homeschooling parents at the event said they want conservative candidates who oppose abortion, favor traditional marriage and want to crack down on illegal immigration. David Ridgway, 52, of Johnston, who is homeschooling his children, said he wanted "good Christian candidates."
Many said they had not yet selected a candidate, but some were committed. Katie Borwey, 62, of Urbandale, who is homeschooling her two grandchildren, said she plans to support Huckabee.
"Up to this point, he has never lied," she said. "He stands with the Constitution, the way it's written."
Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
News 9
7401 N. Kelley Ave.
Oklahoma City, OK 73111
OKLAHOMA CITY'S OWN TM
Oklahoma's Own News9.com is proud to provide Oklahomans with   timely and relevant   news and information, sharing the stories, pictures and loves of Oklahomans across our   great state   including Oklahoma City's Own.

