President Barack Obama, family attend Easter service at history Baptist church in Virginia
ASSOCIATED PRESS
ALEXANDRIA, Va. — President Barack Obama and his family attended Easter service at the Alfred Street Baptist Church in Alexandria, Virginia, whose history dates back almost 200 years to when Thomas Jefferson was in the White House.
Obama along with wife Michelle and daughters Sasha and Malia were welcomed to the historic church by the pastor, Rev. Dr. Howard-John Wesley, who noted that like the first lady, he is a native of Chicago’s South Side.
“How fitting that on the day we celebrate the rising of our Lord and savior, we also welcome our sitting president,” Wesley said, as the congregation rose to their feet in applause.
“This is not selfie time,” Wesley said jokingly. “Let the brother worship in the house of God.”
Churchgoers traditionally walk around to shake hands and give hugs during the greetings and announcements portion of service, but the pastor encouraged the crowd to stay in their seats and greet only their closest neighbors, as the sanctuary was tightly secured with Secret Service agents.
The choir— including women in purple dresses and men sporting purple ties— sang a stirring rendition of the hymn “He Lives,” prompting most of the church, filled to capacity, to clap, sing and sway to the thumping organ keys while ushers collected the offering.
The lively pastor based his sermon around a scripture from 1 Corinthians 15 on the life and resurrection of Christ.
“Where do you stand in the resurrection of Christ,” he asked. “You either believe it or reject it.”
Wesley said the sacrifices of Christ allowed the congregation to be forgiven for their own sins.
“He took the pain for me. I owe him my life. I owe him my praise. I owe him my hallelujah,” he said.
According to the church’s website, the Alexandria Baptist Society was formed in 1803 when members split from another church in the Northern Virginia city, and a slave was baptized that year as its first black member.
Three years later, black members established the Colored Baptist Society as a “conjoined” church. The congregation adopted its current name in the late 1800s.
In 2000, President Bill Clinton visited Alfred Street a few days before the November election as he sang with the gospel choir and appealed to black voters to turn out in large numbers for Vice President Al Gore in his race against Republican George W. Bush.
Recommended for You
Guidelines: Please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent. If a comment violates these standards or our privacy statement or visitor's agreement , click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report abuse. To post comments, you must be a Facebook member. To find out more, please visit the FAQ .
Your e-mail:
Your Name:
Friends e-mail:
Friends Name:
Copyright 2015 The Blade. All rights reserved. This material may not be copied or distributed without permission.
Copyright 2015 The Blade. By using this service, you accept the terms of our privacy statement and our visitor agreement . Please read them.
The Toledo Blade Company, 541 N. Superior St.,     Toledo, OH 43660, (419) 724-6000
To contact a specific department or an individual person, click here .
The Toledo Times ®

