Rolf Harris jailed: A sexual predator who presented himself as a lovable family entertainer - Mirror Online
Rolf Harris presented himself as a lovable family entertainer, bringing him global fame and fortune.
A career spanning six decades made him rich beyond his dreams, as he was adored by millions of fans worldwide.
His stardom and prestige was so high he was chosen by courtiers to paint the Queen in Buckingham Palace and also sang with rock royalty the Beatles.
But his jovial public character hid a dark secret. He was a serial sex abuser of women and young girls too afraid to complain about a deviant celebrity who heaped misery on them but seemed untouchable.
That Rolf Harris could be another entertainer, like Jimmy Savile, using celebrity status to abuse young women, was unimaginable.
During his seven week trial Harris's loyal following remained in denial. They were not prepared to believe he was capable of such disgusting behaviour. But, a jury of six men and six women were convinced by the overwhelming evidence of serial abuse and found Harris guilty.
Looking back, some of those fans, will remember their favourite entertainer telling Piers Morgan of his "guilt" over neglecting his wife Alwen and daughter Bindi.
Getty
Queen Elizabeth II greets artist Rolf Harris and Kylie Minogue backstage during the Diamond Jubilee Concert outside Buckingham Palace
With hindsight it is clear that his feelings of remorse over his relationships had a far deeper meaning. He could have been agonising over years of secret affairs and even child abuse.
His twisted double life heaped misery on his victims, believing fame would deny them the platform to complain about his deviant ways.
Harris was born in 1930 in the sleepy town of Bassendean in Perth, Western Australia, to parents Cromwell and Marge, both originally from small Welsh mining communities before individually settling in Australia.
He described his childhood as"idyllic", spending days swimming naked with pals in the River Swan behind the house Cromwell built out of second-hand materials.
By the age of 16, he was junior swimming champion of Australia, making him a local hero in the tiny community on the edge of the Australian bush.
Brimming with confidence, his artistic talents blossomed and in 1952, after a brief spell working in an asbestos mine, he headed to Britain to study at the prestigious City and Guilds of London Art School.
Mirrorpix
Rolf Harris, drawing sketches as he entertains children at Albert Dock, Liverpool in 1986
A year later he was working for the BBC performing a regular ten-minute cartoon drawing section with a puppet called "Fuzz". He later became the only entertainer to work for both the Beeb and ITV when commercial television was introduced in 1955.
Rolf met his wife, Alwen, a Welsh-born sculptress and jeweller, at the Royal Academy of Arts, where they were both exhibiting paintings. They married in 1958, with a dog as a bridesmaid.
In 1959 when television was first introduced in Australia, Rolf was headhunted by Australian networks and became a household name.
He hit the big time in the same year with his famous rendition of the song Tie Me Kangaroo Down, Sport, with the Beatles singing backing vocals and later appearing with him on BBC radio.
He described the next three years as "the happiest of my life" but the long hours and constant touring had a severe effect on his marriage.
Rolf and Alwen returned to London in 1963 and a year later had their daughter Bindi, named after Harris' favourite town in Western Australia.
But as Harris' star rose he spent more time away, leading his devoted wife to spiral into depression, losing her hair to alopecia, and later becoming suicidal due to her husband's constant absence.
It wasn't until 30 years later that the painter found her diary in a pile of rubbish.
"I feel like killing myself, I am so bored," she had written. "My days are filled with such emptiness. Please take me away from here."
He was travelling the world and doing as he pleased - a far cry from the show of unity he presented to the cameras as he walked hand in hand with wife and daughter outside London's Southwark Crown Court during his six week trial.
Mirrorpix
Cilla Black 23.12.1963
He was abusing young girls under the guise of his lovable persona that saw him awarded an MBE in 1968.
But his perversions could not be masked and around the same time he openly groping a young girl who asked him for an autograph at a Portsmouth leisure centre after giving her a"Rolfie hug".
She was just seven or eight at the time.
The self-proclaimed "weird fish" never hid his fondness for young girls, often satisfying his paedophile tendencies through a veil of goofy awkwardness.
Between 1975 and 1976, he indecently assaulted a 14-year-old girl by grabbing her backside at an It's A Knockout tournament in Cambridge.
Harris denied being there until video evidence was played at his trial of him showing him entertaining the crowd.
Two years later he was made an OBE, however, his tactics remained the same, blatantly approaching young women and girls on the premise he was a harmless funny man.
A cameraman who worked with Harris on a number of corporate projects in Australia also recalled his "infatuation" with young women.
But the line between flirtation and chauvinism was often blurred, no more so when in Melbourne in 1978 after a female reporter asked a question, he retorted: "How would you like the get your clothes off and sit here for a while?"
His sexual appetite hit a snag when he was left ridiculed by a beautiful backing singer called Glo who got her revenge after he had spent months sexually harassing her on tour.
After publicly harassing her for weeks, the young singer fronted Harris by revealing his manhood in front of a shocked dressing room.
In his book Harris confessed: "I turned seven consecutive shades of red. Not surprisingly, I stopped flirting with pretty young women and embarrassing them in public. Glo had given me a taste of my own medicine."
Despite the incident Harris continued to sexually assault women and children for many decades after the incident without ever being challenged.
Getty
Rolf Harris with his bride to be sculptress Alwen Hughes in 1985
His time on the road led to him spending "more time with total strangers" than with his family, and touring from town to town provided the perfect cover for his lecherous ways.
Indeed, at his trial he confessed to sexually admiring a 13-year-old bikini clad friend of his daughter's while in Hawaii on holiday in the 1978. The girl claimed Harris groped her as she came out of the shower.
This was the start of a string of assaults by Harris as he abused her over the next 16 years, after training her to "perform like a pet".
The woman, now 49 but just 15 at the time Harris began molesting her, told how the star psychologically tormented her for years leading to her abusing alcohol as an escape.
A year later in 1986 Harris groped 14-year-old Australian Tonya Lee when she was in Britain with a Sydney based theatre group.
PA
Tonya Lee
The predator met the star stuck youngsters in a London pub where he honed in on the teenager, beckoning her to sit on his lap and again cornering her outside a toilet before groping her.
In recent years, Harris, who amassed a fortune of PS11million as one of Australia's most successful entertainers, proclaimed to regret the effect his years of womanising and affairs had had on his family.
After watching a recording of tearful Alwen speaking of her abandonment, Harris told interviewer Piers Morgan: "Guilty on all counts, your honour. I regret the time I missed with Bindi growing up. I avoid things, I steer around things, like my father."
And in another interview, Harris hinted at his life of shame, saying: "I've done my fair share of awful things in my time. I have the same urges and desires as anyone and there were times when I was younger when I found myself riding roughshod over other people's feelings."
But even old friends believe it was just part of the act.
Getty
December 1967: Rolf Harris puts his ear to an elephant's trunk at London Zoo
Old pal Ted Egan said: "He's doing the Rolf Harris show 24 hours a day.
"Everything that seems to be spur of the moment he has rehearsed 50 times. Everyone is a potential member of his audience."
The aged entertainer, attempted to play to the audience until the end, even having to be chided by the prosecution counsel for singing to the jury under cross examination.
Now the man Britain adopted as their own and who won world acclaim for his unique brand of family entertainment will be remembered first as a predatory sex pervert.
VIEW GALLERY
