Baseball - Highlights of Thursday's MLB games - Yahoo Eurosport UK
- - -
Athletics 6, Giants 1
Scott Kazmir continues to make hay while the sun shines, the left-hander enjoying another dominant daytime performance by striking out nine and allowing the San Francisco Giants just three hits over seven innings in Oakland's 6-1 victory.
Kazmir (11-3) ran his record to 5-0 and lowered his ERA to 0.93 in seven early starts this season.
The A's backed Kazmir with a powerful offensive assault, bombing Giants right-hander Tim Hudson (7-6) for six runs and nine hits in 5 1/3 innings.
First baseman Stephen Vogt drove in three runs with two singles and third baseman Josh Donaldson belted a two-run homer for the A's, who won the Bay Bridge series 3-1.
- - -
Indians 9, Yankees 3
Asdrubal Cabrera's bases-loaded triple highlighted a four-run Cleveland seventh inning, and Roberto Perez and Carlos Santana each hit two-run home runs to highlight a five-run eighth, as the Indians rallied past the New York Yankees 9-3.
Trailing 3-0 into the seventh shortstop Cabrera, who came into the game hitting .179 with runners in scoring position and .167 with the bases loaded, tripled into the right-field corner, scoring all three runners to tie the game.
- - -
Cubs 6, Reds 4 (12 innings)
Third baseman Luis Valbuena's triple drove in the go-ahead runs in the 12th inning, lifting the Chicago Cubs to a 6-4 victory over the Cincinnati Reds.
Cubs second baseman Arismendy Alcantara went 4-for-5 with a double and triple, his first career hits, and three RBIs. With two outs in the 12th, Valbuena tripled off Skip Schumaker's glove in right field, driving in two runs.
- - -
Phillies 9, Brewers 1
The Milwaukee Brewers fell apart late and were forced to swallow a stunning 9-1 loss to the lowly Philadelphia Phillies.
With the game tied 1-1 in the eighth Jimmy Rollins put the Phillies ahead with a two-run single to left, starting a blitz.
When third baseman Cody Asche produced a ground-rule double to right, it was 5-1 and the inning ended 7-1 to the Phillies.
Ryan Howard picked up his second hit of the day with a two-run homer in the ninth, his 15th home run of the year, to ice the late surge.
- - -
Red Sox 4, White Sox 3 (10 innings)
Pinch hitter Mike Carp delivered the game-winning hit in the 10th inning, leading the Red Sox to a 4-3 victory over the Chicago White Sox.
Chicago's Conor Gillaspie tied the game at 3-3 with a pinch-hit, two-run homer in the ninth inning off All-Star closer Koji Uehara.
But Carp's single to left in the 10th plated Daniel Nava for the win, one of just three hits for Boston en route to their third win in 10 games.
- - -
Orioles 4, Nationals 3
Steve Pearce homered and Wei-Yin Chen got his team-leading ninth win as the Baltimore Orioles topped the Washington Nationals 4-3.
Pearce, the Orioles' left fielder, went 2-for-4 with two runs scored and got his 11th home run of the season. Chen (9-3) allowed four runs on eight hits with six strikeouts over 5 2/3 innings for Baltimore (50-41).
Nationals (49-41) catcher Wilson Ramos extended his hitting streak to a career-high 13 games, currently the longest in the majors, while right fielder Jayson Werth homered and designated hitter Ryan Zimmerman had two hits and an RBI.
- - -
Braves 3, Mets 1
Aaron Harang allowed one run over seven innings, and Freddie Freeman and Jason Heyward each had RBI hits in the first inning as the Atlanta Braves beat the New York Mets 3-1.
Freeman finished 2-for-4 while improving his lifetime batting average against the Mets to .324 (80-for-247).
The first baseman's RBI double in the opening inning brought home shortstop Andrelton Simmons and Freeman scored one out later on a single to left by Hayward.
- - -
Pirates 9, Cardinals 1
Pittsburgh Pirates starter Edinson Volquez went the distance in a 9-1 blowout win over the St Louis Cardinals, scattering six hits, walking two and fanning five as he improved to 8-6 with his fourth straight win.
The Pirates (48-44) got two RBIs apiece from left fielder Josh Harrison, center fielder Andrew McCutchen, second baseman Neil Walker and catcher Russell Martin.
- - -
Angels 15, Rangers 6
Mike Trout was 4-for-5 with a home run and four RBIs for the streaking Los Angeles Angels, who won for the 16th time in 19 games by defeating the Texas Rangers 15-6.
Trout was one of four hitters with two or more RBIs for the Angels.
Left fielder Josh Hamilton was 3-for-5 with three doubles and two RBIs, and first baseman Albert Pujols was 2-for-4 with two RBIs.
Right fielder Kole Calhoun was also 4-for-5, including a triple, and he scored a run on a throwing error leading off the game.
- - -
Tigers 16, Royals 4
The Detroit Tigers battered four Kansas City pitchers on the way to a 16-4 victory over the Royals.
Every Detroit starter scored at least one run and all but catcher Alex Avila reached base at least twice in the first five innings.


Purdy: A's midterm grade better than Giants' - San Jose Mercury News
SAN FRANCISCO -- Some first-place teams are more equal than others.
That's the answer to the question: "Daddy and mommy, what did we learn from this week's Bay Bridge Series?"
The A's are a good team, getting better. The Giants are a good team, still trying to figure out how to be a good team for more than a game or two (or inning or two) at a time.
Other than that, really, you can't draw many conclusions from the four games between our two local sides this week. Although for one team, it was more fun than the other.
"We got beat three out of four," said Giants catcher Buster Posey, who was on the team that had less fun. "That's the only conclusion to draw right now."
He's right, although fans will make many more assumptions from the 36 innings in which the A's outscored the Giants 19-7.
The A's definitely got a kick out of winning the series. But it was as much for their followers as anything else.
"As players, it's not a real ... you know, thing where we don't like them," said A's third baseman Josh Donaldson, speaking of the Giants. "But when both teams get on the field, we know how the fans feel about it. The energy in both ballparks, you feel it."
Right now, the Giants would like to feel more energy in their bats. Hard as it is to believe with their recent ugly downturn, they still aren't in a horrible spot going ahead. Their loss Thursday afternoon dropped them a half-game out of first place to Los Angeles -- it grew to a full game later when the Dodgers beat the Padres. But look at it this way: Last season, they had a 42-50 record after 92 games. This time at the same juncture, they are 50-42.
But are they actually playing better than a year ago at this time?
"Yes," Posey answered directly, when asked that direct question.
What the Giants need, more than anything, is three or more games in a row in which they score four or more runs. They haven't done that since mid-June. It has put too much pressure on their pitching staff and put too many zeros on the scoreboard.
Indicative: The series that began Monday night with the Giants' Hunter Pence fouling out to the catcher . . . ended with an instant replay decision on Gregor Blanco's nubber in front of the catcher and throw to first -- with the replay decision, naturally, going against the Giants.
In other words, the Giants' first and last outs of the series never traveled farther than a chip shot from home plate. The absence of Angel Pagan is a factor in the team's loss of pop. But sometimes, it can be an attitudinal approach.
It might be as simple as this: Through the early innings Thursday, as Giants starter Tim Hudson and A's starter Scott Kazmir were both working well and getting batters out, Donaldson said the A's dugout mood was that they would get to Hudson eventually, if they kept having quality at-bats. And that's what eventually occurred, even on a day when the Athletics' best player, Yoenis Cespedes, went 0 for 5.
But in the Giants dugout, whenever a batter had a potential hit snarfed up by a good A's fielding play, the body language spoke of frustration.
Bruce Bochy is keeping up his solid front. The Giants manager has seen much worse slumps over his years in the game. And he kept his sense of humor when a reporter asked if he thought about pinch hitting for Hudson in the fifth inning when the game was still tight. No way, the manager said.
"He hit one of the hardest balls we hit all day," Bochy mused.
And then he reminded everyone again that it's a long season.
The feeling here in April about the Giants -- and the feeling still -- is that no matter how things played out over the course of the long season, the National League West would come down to them and Dodgers in September.
The feeling here in April about the A's -- and the feeling still -- is that they are going to be a postseason team and will win the American League West if their starting pitching holds up.
Nothing that happened over the past four days changed any of that. The Bay Bridge Series was just a midterm exam for our local squads. But as the whooping and barking A's fans left AT&T Park and headed for BART trains back to the East Bay, while Giants fans walked quietly to the CalTrain station, there's no question which group liked its report card more than the other.
Read Mark Purdy's blog at blogs.mercurynews.com/purdy. Contact him at mpurdy@mercurynews.com. Follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/MercPurdy.
