Baseball - Highlights of Thursday's MLB games - Yahoo Eurosport UK
- - -
Athletics 6, Giants 1
Scott Kazmir continues to make hay while the sun shines, the left-hander enjoying another dominant daytime performance by striking out nine and allowing the San Francisco Giants just three hits over seven innings in Oakland's 6-1 victory.
Kazmir (11-3) ran his record to 5-0 and lowered his ERA to 0.93 in seven early starts this season.
The A's backed Kazmir with a powerful offensive assault, bombing Giants right-hander Tim Hudson (7-6) for six runs and nine hits in 5 1/3 innings.
First baseman Stephen Vogt drove in three runs with two singles and third baseman Josh Donaldson belted a two-run homer for the A's, who won the Bay Bridge series 3-1.
- - -
Indians 9, Yankees 3
Asdrubal Cabrera's bases-loaded triple highlighted a four-run Cleveland seventh inning, and Roberto Perez and Carlos Santana each hit two-run home runs to highlight a five-run eighth, as the Indians rallied past the New York Yankees 9-3.
Trailing 3-0 into the seventh shortstop Cabrera, who came into the game hitting .179 with runners in scoring position and .167 with the bases loaded, tripled into the right-field corner, scoring all three runners to tie the game.
- - -
Cubs 6, Reds 4 (12 innings)
Third baseman Luis Valbuena's triple drove in the go-ahead runs in the 12th inning, lifting the Chicago Cubs to a 6-4 victory over the Cincinnati Reds.
Cubs second baseman Arismendy Alcantara went 4-for-5 with a double and triple, his first career hits, and three RBIs. With two outs in the 12th, Valbuena tripled off Skip Schumaker's glove in right field, driving in two runs.
- - -
Phillies 9, Brewers 1
The Milwaukee Brewers fell apart late and were forced to swallow a stunning 9-1 loss to the lowly Philadelphia Phillies.
With the game tied 1-1 in the eighth Jimmy Rollins put the Phillies ahead with a two-run single to left, starting a blitz.
When third baseman Cody Asche produced a ground-rule double to right, it was 5-1 and the inning ended 7-1 to the Phillies.
Ryan Howard picked up his second hit of the day with a two-run homer in the ninth, his 15th home run of the year, to ice the late surge.
- - -
Red Sox 4, White Sox 3 (10 innings)
Pinch hitter Mike Carp delivered the game-winning hit in the 10th inning, leading the Red Sox to a 4-3 victory over the Chicago White Sox.
Chicago's Conor Gillaspie tied the game at 3-3 with a pinch-hit, two-run homer in the ninth inning off All-Star closer Koji Uehara.
But Carp's single to left in the 10th plated Daniel Nava for the win, one of just three hits for Boston en route to their third win in 10 games.
- - -
Orioles 4, Nationals 3
Steve Pearce homered and Wei-Yin Chen got his team-leading ninth win as the Baltimore Orioles topped the Washington Nationals 4-3.
Pearce, the Orioles' left fielder, went 2-for-4 with two runs scored and got his 11th home run of the season. Chen (9-3) allowed four runs on eight hits with six strikeouts over 5 2/3 innings for Baltimore (50-41).
Nationals (49-41) catcher Wilson Ramos extended his hitting streak to a career-high 13 games, currently the longest in the majors, while right fielder Jayson Werth homered and designated hitter Ryan Zimmerman had two hits and an RBI.
- - -
Braves 3, Mets 1
Aaron Harang allowed one run over seven innings, and Freddie Freeman and Jason Heyward each had RBI hits in the first inning as the Atlanta Braves beat the New York Mets 3-1.
Freeman finished 2-for-4 while improving his lifetime batting average against the Mets to .324 (80-for-247).
The first baseman's RBI double in the opening inning brought home shortstop Andrelton Simmons and Freeman scored one out later on a single to left by Hayward.
- - -
Pirates 9, Cardinals 1
Pittsburgh Pirates starter Edinson Volquez went the distance in a 9-1 blowout win over the St Louis Cardinals, scattering six hits, walking two and fanning five as he improved to 8-6 with his fourth straight win.
The Pirates (48-44) got two RBIs apiece from left fielder Josh Harrison, center fielder Andrew McCutchen, second baseman Neil Walker and catcher Russell Martin.
- - -
Angels 15, Rangers 6
Mike Trout was 4-for-5 with a home run and four RBIs for the streaking Los Angeles Angels, who won for the 16th time in 19 games by defeating the Texas Rangers 15-6.
Trout was one of four hitters with two or more RBIs for the Angels.
Left fielder Josh Hamilton was 3-for-5 with three doubles and two RBIs, and first baseman Albert Pujols was 2-for-4 with two RBIs.
Right fielder Kole Calhoun was also 4-for-5, including a triple, and he scored a run on a throwing error leading off the game.
- - -
Tigers 16, Royals 4
The Detroit Tigers battered four Kansas City pitchers on the way to a 16-4 victory over the Royals.
Every Detroit starter scored at least one run and all but catcher Alex Avila reached base at least twice in the first five innings.


A's Kazmir shuts down Giants in matinee Bay Bridge finale - SFGate
The competition to start the American League All-Star game seems wide open now that the Yankees' Masahiro Tanaka is on the disabled list with an elbow injury. On a postcard afternoon at AT&T Park on Thursday, the A's Scott Kazmir pitched a game that shouted, "Pick me!"
Kazmir blanked the Giants on three hits over seven innings and improved to 11-3 in a 6-1 victory, a fitting end to a Bay Bridge Series that tilted the A's way.
Oakland took three of four for the second year in a row and has matched the best 92-game record in franchise history at 58-34 in winning for the 11th time in the past 15 games.
San Francisco fell to 8-21 since June 8 and again had to lean on bromides about salvation being just around the corner.
"They're a good ballclub," losing pitcher Tim Hudson said of the A's. "They do a good job of going out there and executing game plans. At the same time I feel we're just as good as they are. They've caught us as bad as we can be. So hopefully this year sometime we'll face them again and we'll be a lot better."
That would have to be in the World Series, a destination that seems very real for the A's and a distant dream for the Giants even if they are in good shape in the National League West.
Hudson made a blunt admission after the Giants' offense sputtered again. Mentioning the need for certain guys to get healthy, he said, "No excuses to be made, but still, we don't have the depth at a lot of positions for guys to be hurt an extended period of time."
General manager Brian Sabean needs to address that during this trading season. Meanwhile, the Giants who are here clearly need to play better.
Hudson could have been a lot better, too. After manager Bruce Bochy let him bat with two outs and two on in the fifth, down 2-0, the A's clobbered him in the sixth with four consecutive extra-base hits to start the inning, including Josh Donaldson's two-run homer off the roof of the Willie Mays Wall in left field.
Hudson did not survive the inning, which ended with the A's up 6-0.
Kazmir cruised against all the Giants hitters except for Hudson, who drew a 10-pitch walk in the third inning and did not miss a two-run double by much in the fifth. Center fielder Craig Gentry had to chase the drive to the warning track.
Kazmir's ERA fell to 2.38. Seattle's Felix Hernandez might be the favorite to start the All-Star Game, but Kazmir belongs in the conversation.
"There are probably several guys they are choosing from," A's manager Bob Melvin said, "but he would definitely be in the mix. ... He's been as consistent as anybody in the league. Both leagues."
There was an interesting subtext to the Hudson-Kazmir matchup. The A's pursued Hudson before he signed a two-year, $23 million deal with the Giants. Oakland then signed Kazmir two weeks later for two years, $22 million. Had they snared Hudson, Kazmir might have gone elsewhere.
Hudson said he does not regret his choice now that the teams seem headed in different directions.
"I'm the happiest man in this locker room to be here," Hudson said. "Obviously we haven't played great baseball here, but the correct decision was made for me to come here. I hope I can help us win ballgames the rest of the year."
Henry Schulman is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail: hschulman@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @hankschulman
