Baseball - Highlights of Thursday's MLB games - Yahoo Eurosport UK
- - -
Athletics 6, Giants 1
Scott Kazmir continues to make hay while the sun shines, the left-hander enjoying another dominant daytime performance by striking out nine and allowing the San Francisco Giants just three hits over seven innings in Oakland's 6-1 victory.
Kazmir (11-3) ran his record to 5-0 and lowered his ERA to 0.93 in seven early starts this season.
The A's backed Kazmir with a powerful offensive assault, bombing Giants right-hander Tim Hudson (7-6) for six runs and nine hits in 5 1/3 innings.
First baseman Stephen Vogt drove in three runs with two singles and third baseman Josh Donaldson belted a two-run homer for the A's, who won the Bay Bridge series 3-1.
- - -
Indians 9, Yankees 3
Asdrubal Cabrera's bases-loaded triple highlighted a four-run Cleveland seventh inning, and Roberto Perez and Carlos Santana each hit two-run home runs to highlight a five-run eighth, as the Indians rallied past the New York Yankees 9-3.
Trailing 3-0 into the seventh shortstop Cabrera, who came into the game hitting .179 with runners in scoring position and .167 with the bases loaded, tripled into the right-field corner, scoring all three runners to tie the game.
- - -
Cubs 6, Reds 4 (12 innings)
Third baseman Luis Valbuena's triple drove in the go-ahead runs in the 12th inning, lifting the Chicago Cubs to a 6-4 victory over the Cincinnati Reds.
Cubs second baseman Arismendy Alcantara went 4-for-5 with a double and triple, his first career hits, and three RBIs. With two outs in the 12th, Valbuena tripled off Skip Schumaker's glove in right field, driving in two runs.
- - -
Phillies 9, Brewers 1
The Milwaukee Brewers fell apart late and were forced to swallow a stunning 9-1 loss to the lowly Philadelphia Phillies.
With the game tied 1-1 in the eighth Jimmy Rollins put the Phillies ahead with a two-run single to left, starting a blitz.
When third baseman Cody Asche produced a ground-rule double to right, it was 5-1 and the inning ended 7-1 to the Phillies.
Ryan Howard picked up his second hit of the day with a two-run homer in the ninth, his 15th home run of the year, to ice the late surge.
- - -
Red Sox 4, White Sox 3 (10 innings)
Pinch hitter Mike Carp delivered the game-winning hit in the 10th inning, leading the Red Sox to a 4-3 victory over the Chicago White Sox.
Chicago's Conor Gillaspie tied the game at 3-3 with a pinch-hit, two-run homer in the ninth inning off All-Star closer Koji Uehara.
But Carp's single to left in the 10th plated Daniel Nava for the win, one of just three hits for Boston en route to their third win in 10 games.
- - -
Orioles 4, Nationals 3
Steve Pearce homered and Wei-Yin Chen got his team-leading ninth win as the Baltimore Orioles topped the Washington Nationals 4-3.
Pearce, the Orioles' left fielder, went 2-for-4 with two runs scored and got his 11th home run of the season. Chen (9-3) allowed four runs on eight hits with six strikeouts over 5 2/3 innings for Baltimore (50-41).
Nationals (49-41) catcher Wilson Ramos extended his hitting streak to a career-high 13 games, currently the longest in the majors, while right fielder Jayson Werth homered and designated hitter Ryan Zimmerman had two hits and an RBI.
- - -
Braves 3, Mets 1
Aaron Harang allowed one run over seven innings, and Freddie Freeman and Jason Heyward each had RBI hits in the first inning as the Atlanta Braves beat the New York Mets 3-1.
Freeman finished 2-for-4 while improving his lifetime batting average against the Mets to .324 (80-for-247).
The first baseman's RBI double in the opening inning brought home shortstop Andrelton Simmons and Freeman scored one out later on a single to left by Hayward.
- - -
Pirates 9, Cardinals 1
Pittsburgh Pirates starter Edinson Volquez went the distance in a 9-1 blowout win over the St Louis Cardinals, scattering six hits, walking two and fanning five as he improved to 8-6 with his fourth straight win.
The Pirates (48-44) got two RBIs apiece from left fielder Josh Harrison, center fielder Andrew McCutchen, second baseman Neil Walker and catcher Russell Martin.
- - -
Angels 15, Rangers 6
Mike Trout was 4-for-5 with a home run and four RBIs for the streaking Los Angeles Angels, who won for the 16th time in 19 games by defeating the Texas Rangers 15-6.
Trout was one of four hitters with two or more RBIs for the Angels.
Left fielder Josh Hamilton was 3-for-5 with three doubles and two RBIs, and first baseman Albert Pujols was 2-for-4 with two RBIs.
Right fielder Kole Calhoun was also 4-for-5, including a triple, and he scored a run on a throwing error leading off the game.
- - -
Tigers 16, Royals 4
The Detroit Tigers battered four Kansas City pitchers on the way to a 16-4 victory over the Royals.
Every Detroit starter scored at least one run and all but catcher Alex Avila reached base at least twice in the first five innings.


A's, Scott Kazmir dominate Giants - San Jose Mercury News
SAN FRANCISCO -- If the last four days were any indication, a rematch of the 1989 World Series would be as big a wipeout as the original.
Of course, the A's of 25 years ago swept the Giants in four fairly lopsided games. This year's model managed to take only three of four in the annual home-and-home, but the lasting imprint was that of Oakland domination after a 6-1 victory behind Scott Kazmir on Thursday at AT&T Park.
In the A's three wins, they limited the Giants to one or zero runs. The aggregate score for the series was 19-7. They defeated San Francisco's All-Star ace Madison Bumgarner in one game, and in the finale, beat up on one of their own former favorites, Tim Hudson.
Oakland Athletics' Steve Kazmir (26) throws seven shut out innings against the San Francisco Giants at AT&T Park in San Francisco, Calif., on Thursday, July 10, 2014. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group) ( Karl Mondon )
To be sure, if the A's needed an exclamation point to show themselves a superior team to the Giants right now, the last game was it. Kazmir (11-3) was once again brilliant, throwing seven shutout innings, allowing three hits, walking one and striking out nine.
Kazmir has had a bunch of these kinds of starts, but even though he's a newbie to the Giants-A's rivalry, he considered this victory -- and the A's performance in taking the four-game set -- a little extra special.
"I think so, especially the way the crowd's been," Kazmir said. "It's almost been a playoff atmosphere the past four games. It gets you pumped for the series. It's the first time I've experienced it, and it's everything I heard about and expected."
Manager Bob Melvin is simply astounded by Kazmir's consistent quality. It was the 11th time in 19th starts that he limited the opposition to one run or fewer.
"They seem like they're all the same to me," Melvin said. "He gives up zero, one or two runs, gets you deep in the game, and we didn't do him any favors defensively. One inning, we gave (the Giants) close to six outs, and he still got through it with no runs. He's been as consistent as anybody in the league ... both leagues."
Kazmir didn't dodge his ability to deal dirty against the Giants on this day.
"I felt good from Pitch One," he said. "I mixed up a couple different looks, and it was effective for me. I got a couple runs early in the game, felt comfortable out there and just attacked the strike zone."
Kazmir has been tough virtually every start, but when he gets offensive support, it's pretty much a done deal -- he's 11-0 when the A's have scored three runs or more. The A's chipped away in the early innings, with single runs in the second and fifth, then unloaded on Hudson with a four-run sixth.
Josh Donaldson drove in two sixth-inning runs with his 20th home run, fitting for a guy who was named to compete in the All-Star Home Run Derby earlier in the day. Few right-handed hitters put balls onto the right field pavilion, but Donaldson drove a first-pitch Hudson offering that easily cleared the wall.
Both of Donaldson's hits were to the opposite field, a good sign that he's starting to hit a groove. And if he's driving the ball to right, that's an even better omen.
"We had a runner at second base and I just wanted to get him over that at-bat," Donaldson said. "I was able to drive it and hit it out of the park."
Yet another hero on this day was Stephen Vogt, who extended his career-best hitting streak to 10 games with a pair of two-out RBI hits, the second against tough lefty Javier Lopez. Vogt is hitting .457 during his 10-game streak, but he's also been a monster with two outs and runners in scoring position -- 7 for-17 (.412).
"Those two-out RBIs are your favorite hits, because you have to get a hit in order to score runs, so they're awesome," Vogt said. "I feel like myself, to be quite honest. I was really hungry to come back up after having some success last year, but now I feel more comfortable. I'm just playing baseball."
So are the A's, who have won seven of eight and 11 of 15 in matching an Oakland franchise-best 58 wins after 92 games. They've also won seven of their last nine against the Giants dating back to 2012.
Melvin said before the game that Josh Reddick (knee) will likely head out on a rehab assignment when the A's go to Seattle this weekend. Left-handed pitcher Drew Pomeranz (fractured right hand) could be close behind him.
49ers coach Jim Harbaugh and Melvin had a long chat near the A's dugout before the game. "I told him he could talk to anybody he wants, but just stay away from (Jeff) Samardzija," Melvin said.	Samardzija was a star receiver at Notre Dame who likely could have played in the NFL.
Contact Carl Steward at csteward@bayareanewsgroup.com. More darting on Twitter at twitter.com/stewardsfolly.
Purdy: Oakland showed its might against San Francisco, but don't make too much of four games in July. PAGE 5
All-Star Donaldson to join A's teammate Cespedes in Home Run Derby. PAGE 5
