Baseball - Highlights of Thursday's MLB games - Yahoo Eurosport UK
- - -
Athletics 6, Giants 1
Scott Kazmir continues to make hay while the sun shines, the left-hander enjoying another dominant daytime performance by striking out nine and allowing the San Francisco Giants just three hits over seven innings in Oakland's 6-1 victory.
Kazmir (11-3) ran his record to 5-0 and lowered his ERA to 0.93 in seven early starts this season.
The A's backed Kazmir with a powerful offensive assault, bombing Giants right-hander Tim Hudson (7-6) for six runs and nine hits in 5 1/3 innings.
First baseman Stephen Vogt drove in three runs with two singles and third baseman Josh Donaldson belted a two-run homer for the A's, who won the Bay Bridge series 3-1.
- - -
Indians 9, Yankees 3
Asdrubal Cabrera's bases-loaded triple highlighted a four-run Cleveland seventh inning, and Roberto Perez and Carlos Santana each hit two-run home runs to highlight a five-run eighth, as the Indians rallied past the New York Yankees 9-3.
Trailing 3-0 into the seventh shortstop Cabrera, who came into the game hitting .179 with runners in scoring position and .167 with the bases loaded, tripled into the right-field corner, scoring all three runners to tie the game.
- - -
Cubs 6, Reds 4 (12 innings)
Third baseman Luis Valbuena's triple drove in the go-ahead runs in the 12th inning, lifting the Chicago Cubs to a 6-4 victory over the Cincinnati Reds.
Cubs second baseman Arismendy Alcantara went 4-for-5 with a double and triple, his first career hits, and three RBIs. With two outs in the 12th, Valbuena tripled off Skip Schumaker's glove in right field, driving in two runs.
- - -
Phillies 9, Brewers 1
The Milwaukee Brewers fell apart late and were forced to swallow a stunning 9-1 loss to the lowly Philadelphia Phillies.
With the game tied 1-1 in the eighth Jimmy Rollins put the Phillies ahead with a two-run single to left, starting a blitz.
When third baseman Cody Asche produced a ground-rule double to right, it was 5-1 and the inning ended 7-1 to the Phillies.
Ryan Howard picked up his second hit of the day with a two-run homer in the ninth, his 15th home run of the year, to ice the late surge.
- - -
Red Sox 4, White Sox 3 (10 innings)
Pinch hitter Mike Carp delivered the game-winning hit in the 10th inning, leading the Red Sox to a 4-3 victory over the Chicago White Sox.
Chicago's Conor Gillaspie tied the game at 3-3 with a pinch-hit, two-run homer in the ninth inning off All-Star closer Koji Uehara.
But Carp's single to left in the 10th plated Daniel Nava for the win, one of just three hits for Boston en route to their third win in 10 games.
- - -
Orioles 4, Nationals 3
Steve Pearce homered and Wei-Yin Chen got his team-leading ninth win as the Baltimore Orioles topped the Washington Nationals 4-3.
Pearce, the Orioles' left fielder, went 2-for-4 with two runs scored and got his 11th home run of the season. Chen (9-3) allowed four runs on eight hits with six strikeouts over 5 2/3 innings for Baltimore (50-41).
Nationals (49-41) catcher Wilson Ramos extended his hitting streak to a career-high 13 games, currently the longest in the majors, while right fielder Jayson Werth homered and designated hitter Ryan Zimmerman had two hits and an RBI.
- - -
Braves 3, Mets 1
Aaron Harang allowed one run over seven innings, and Freddie Freeman and Jason Heyward each had RBI hits in the first inning as the Atlanta Braves beat the New York Mets 3-1.
Freeman finished 2-for-4 while improving his lifetime batting average against the Mets to .324 (80-for-247).
The first baseman's RBI double in the opening inning brought home shortstop Andrelton Simmons and Freeman scored one out later on a single to left by Hayward.
- - -
Pirates 9, Cardinals 1
Pittsburgh Pirates starter Edinson Volquez went the distance in a 9-1 blowout win over the St Louis Cardinals, scattering six hits, walking two and fanning five as he improved to 8-6 with his fourth straight win.
The Pirates (48-44) got two RBIs apiece from left fielder Josh Harrison, center fielder Andrew McCutchen, second baseman Neil Walker and catcher Russell Martin.
- - -
Angels 15, Rangers 6
Mike Trout was 4-for-5 with a home run and four RBIs for the streaking Los Angeles Angels, who won for the 16th time in 19 games by defeating the Texas Rangers 15-6.
Trout was one of four hitters with two or more RBIs for the Angels.
Left fielder Josh Hamilton was 3-for-5 with three doubles and two RBIs, and first baseman Albert Pujols was 2-for-4 with two RBIs.
Right fielder Kole Calhoun was also 4-for-5, including a triple, and he scored a run on a throwing error leading off the game.
- - -
Tigers 16, Royals 4
The Detroit Tigers battered four Kansas City pitchers on the way to a 16-4 victory over the Royals.
Every Detroit starter scored at least one run and all but catcher Alex Avila reached base at least twice in the first five innings.


Recap: Athletics 6, Giants 1 - chicagotribune.com
Reuters 	8:35 p.m. CDT, July 10, 2014
SportsDirect Inc.
Recap: Athletics 6, Giants 1
Athletics 6, Giants 1: Josh Donaldson homered and Scott Kazmir dominated through seven scoreless innings as visiting Oakland knocked off San Francisco for the third time in four days.
Stephen Vogt drove in three runs, Brandon Moss doubled and scored twice and Alberto Callaspo added a sacrifice fly for the Athletics, who took both road contests before splitting the two home games of the home-and-home interleague set. Kazmir (11-3), who was named to the American League All-Star team, scattered three hits and allowed a walk while striking out nine.
Tim Hudson (7-6) was knocked around for six runs on nine hits in 5 1/3 innings to run his winless streak to five straight outings. Pablo Sandoval singled in a run and Hunter Pence recorded a pair of hits for San Francisco.
Callaspo's fly scored Moss to put Oakland on top in the second, and Vogt followed John Jaso's triple with a single to right to make it 2-0 in the fifth. Moss doubled to start off the sixth and Donaldson sent a first-pitch cutter the opposite way out to right field for his 20th home run.
The Athletics loaded the bases later in the sixth and Javier Lopez surrendered a two-run single to Vogt to make it a 6-0 advantage. The Giants finally got on the board when Sandoval reach Dan Otero in the eighth.
GAME NOTEBOOK: Home plate umpire Adrian Johnson left after being hit in the mask and was replaced by 2B ump Angel Hernandez. ... Oakland RHP Fernando Abad worked a clean ninth inning, marking his seventh straight scoreless appearance. ... The Giants finish up the first half by hosting Arizona over the weekend while the Athletics will travel to Seattle for a three-game set.
