A's Kazmir shuts down Giants in matinee Bay Bridge finale - SFGate
The competition to start the American League All-Star game seems wide open now that the Yankees' Masahiro Tanaka is on the disabled list with an elbow injury. On a postcard afternoon at AT&T Park on Thursday, the A's Scott Kazmir pitched a game that shouted, "Pick me!"
Kazmir blanked the Giants on three hits over seven innings and improved to 11-3 in a 6-1 victory, a fitting end to a Bay Bridge Series that tilted the A's way.
Oakland took three of four for the second year in a row and has matched the best 92-game record in franchise history at 58-34 in winning for the 11th time in the past 15 games.
San Francisco fell to 8-21 since June 8 and again had to lean on bromides about salvation being just around the corner.
"They're a good ballclub," losing pitcher Tim Hudson said of the A's. "They do a good job of going out there and executing game plans. At the same time I feel we're just as good as they are. They've caught us as bad as we can be. So hopefully this year sometime we'll face them again and we'll be a lot better."
That would have to be in the World Series, a destination that seems very real for the A's and a distant dream for the Giants even if they are in good shape in the National League West.
Hudson made a blunt admission after the Giants' offense sputtered again. Mentioning the need for certain guys to get healthy, he said, "No excuses to be made, but still, we don't have the depth at a lot of positions for guys to be hurt an extended period of time."
General manager Brian Sabean needs to address that during this trading season. Meanwhile, the Giants who are here clearly need to play better.
Hudson could have been a lot better, too. After manager Bruce Bochy let him bat with two outs and two on in the fifth, down 2-0, the A's clobbered him in the sixth with four consecutive extra-base hits to start the inning, including Josh Donaldson's two-run homer off the roof of the Willie Mays Wall in left field.
Hudson did not survive the inning, which ended with the A's up 6-0.
Kazmir cruised against all the Giants hitters except for Hudson, who drew a 10-pitch walk in the third inning and did not miss a two-run double by much in the fifth. Center fielder Craig Gentry had to chase the drive to the warning track.
Kazmir's ERA fell to 2.38. Seattle's Felix Hernandez might be the favorite to start the All-Star Game, but Kazmir belongs in the conversation.
"There are probably several guys they are choosing from," A's manager Bob Melvin said, "but he would definitely be in the mix. ... He's been as consistent as anybody in the league. Both leagues."
There was an interesting subtext to the Hudson-Kazmir matchup. The A's pursued Hudson before he signed a two-year, $23 million deal with the Giants. Oakland then signed Kazmir two weeks later for two years, $22 million. Had they snared Hudson, Kazmir might have gone elsewhere.
Hudson said he does not regret his choice now that the teams seem headed in different directions.
"I'm the happiest man in this locker room to be here," Hudson said. "Obviously we haven't played great baseball here, but the correct decision was made for me to come here. I hope I can help us win ballgames the rest of the year."
Henry Schulman is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail: hschulman@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @hankschulman
