Oscar Pistorius had a heightened concern for his personal safety and was making plans to take girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on international trips shortly before he fatally shot her, his agent testified at the double-amputee runner's murder trial today in Pretoria.
The defence called Peet van Zyl to the stand in an attempt to bolster Pistorius's account that he mistook Steenkamp for an intruder, providing testimony about a loving relationship and a fear of crime that may have pushed the Paralympian to fire through a closed toilet door.
Van Zyl faced tough questioning from the chief prosecutor, however, about Pistorius's alleged egotism and tantrums, high-speed driving and love of guns. The prosecution maintains that he intentionally killed Steenkamp in his home after an argument in the early hours of Feb. 14, 2013.
'Heightened sense of awareness'
Pistorius, who is free on bail, faces 25 years to life in prison if found guilty of premeditated murder, but he could also be sentenced to significant time behind bars if convicted of murder without premeditation or negligent killing. He also faces gun-related charges.
The agent, who helped guide Pistorius to success as a globally renowned athlete with lucrative sponsorship deals that have since been stripped away, testified that his client had a "heightened sense of awareness" and appeared preoccupied with security at times.
On one occasion, he recalled, Pistorius drove with him at high speed to the airport and, when told there was no rush, recalled a traumatic episode in which Van Zyl was accosted at gunpoint while in his car in 2007.
"He wanted to ensure that we are safe and not being followed," Van Zyl said.
He also remembered a time when Pistorius grabbed him by the arm in apparent fear when the pair heard a loud bang while walking in New York City, and described two occasions in which the runner lost his temper but was not aggressive under "abusive questioning" from journalists.
He also said he was assisting Pistorius in plans to take Steenkamp, a 29-year-old model, to races in Britain and Brazil, and a concert in Italy.
Prosecutor Gerrie Nel tried to pick holes in Van Zyl's testimony, pressing the agent for details about a reported incident in which a South African athlete who was sharing a room with Pistorius asked for them to be separated because Pistorius was allegedly arguing frequently on his telephone. He also referred to a 2012 Paralympics race in which Pistorius accused the winner of breaking the rules by using prosthetic limbs that were too long.
Van Zul acknowledged that it was the "wrong place and wrong time for him to react in such a way," but noted there was a "long lead-up" to the incident in which Pistorius had expressed concerns that rules were being flouted.
Nel also described Pistorius's plans to take Steenkamp on trips as an example of alleged narcissism after Van Zyl quoted the athlete as saying he wanted his girlfriend "to see what my world is about, the pressure that I'm under" and "how I need to perform."
During an adjournment, Van Zyl and Pistorius shook hands. The two men patted each other warmly on the back.
Screams come under scrutiny
Earlier in the day, testimony focused on a pillar of the prosecution's case -- the screams that neighbours heard on the night the athlete killed Steenkamp.
Nel questioned acoustics expert Ivan Lin, who had been called by the defence team as part of its effort to suggest some neighbours who said they heard the screams of a woman were wrong, and that they actually heard the high-pitched screams of the double-amputee runner.
Several neighbours called by the prosecution have testified that they heard a woman's terrified screams on the night Pistorius shot Steenkamp, which could bolster the prosecution's claim that the couple was arguing before Pistorius opened fire.
Lin has testified that he conducted tests that showed ambient noise and other factors can make it difficult to hear accurately from a distance.
Nel said the screams of a woman have a "tonal character" and referred to the testimony of the neighbours who were convinced they had heard a screaming woman.
Lin responded that he could not say whether the neighbours were "correct or incorrect."

1 July 2014 Last updated at 15:21
Oscar Pistorius 'became global icon at London Olympics'
Oscar Pistorius trial - 1 July - in 60 seconds
Oscar Pistorius became a "global icon" at the 2012 London Olympics and was set for further success, his manager has told his murder trial.
Peet van Zyl said the South African athlete could have increased his income by five or six times.
Six months after the Games ended, he shot dead his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp at his home in Pretoria.
He denies murder, saying he killed her by mistake when fearing there was an intruder in the house.
The double-amputee competed in both the Paralympic and Olympic games in London.
Mr Van Zyl said Mr Pistorius was an "astute businessman" and there were a lot of opportunities for him because of his raised profile.
The BBC's Andrew Harding, at court in Pretoria, says that as he sat in the dock, Mr Pistorius must surely have contemplated the future outlined by Mr Van Zyl - a future now utterly transformed.
Oscar Pistorius was described as an "astute businessman"
At the scene: Andrew Harding, BBC News, Pretoria 	Trials are, necessarily, about past events. And yet in court on Tuesday, we were treated to a tantalising glimpse of the future Oscar Pistorius might once have had.
It wafted through the courtroom like a patch of unexpected sunlight, before prosecutor Gerrie Nel - true to form - marched over and yanked down the blinds.
It was Mr Pistorius' manager, Peet van Zyl, who had conjured up the sunlight - talking with enthusiasm about his client as a newly minted "global idol" with vast new wealth and "brand ambassadorships" within his grasp, deeply in love with his new girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp, and surprising her with concerts in Tuscany and athletics showdowns in Rio.
After weeks of testimony about blood and gunshots, one can only wonder what Mr Pistorius, sitting impassively in the dock, was thinking.
The trial itself is nearly over. The defence may call one or two more witnesses, and I understand that the prosecution may then ask the psychologist who assessed Mr Pistorius over the past month to give evidence.
Three psychiatrists compiled one report, which I'm told was a relatively brief document confirming that the athlete is mentally fit to stand trial.
The psychologist's report is much more detailed and, sources tell me, argues that Mr Pistorius was not suffering from any anxiety disorder prior to the death of Reeva Steenkamp.
Pistorius' other future
Mr Van Zyl also described Mr Pistorius' relationship with Ms Steenkamp as "loving and caring" and implied he was more serious about her than previous girlfriends.
Prosecutor Gerrie Nel said he did not know Mr Van Zyl would be called to testify and asked for the trial to be adjourned until Wednesday so he could prepare his cross-examination - a request the judge granted.
Earlier, acoustic expert Ivan Lin was cross-examined about whether screams heard on the night of the shooting were from a man or a woman.
Prosecution witnesses say they heard a woman scream on the night of the killing, while Mr Pistorius says he was the only one who screamed.
Mr Pistorius, 27, says he fired multiple shots into a toilet cubicle where Ms Steenkamp was, while in a state of panic.
The prosecution accuses him of premeditated murder, and says the couple had a row before he shot Ms Steenkamp dead.
Mr Lin suggested that it would have been very difficult, if not impossible, for any of the neighbours - given their distance from Mr Pistorius' home - to have heard with clarity the screaming on the night of the shooting.
Mr Pistorius says he mistook his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp for an intruder
The athlete underwent tests on his mental state at the Weskoppies Hospital in Pretoria
The trial resumed in the capital, Pretoria, on Monday, after a month-long adjournment while Mr Pistorius underwent a month of tests as an outpatient at Weskoppies psychiatric hospital in Pretoria.
The medical report said he was not suffering from a mental disorder when he shot dead Ms Steenkamp.
This meant the Olympic athlete was criminally responsible for his actions when he shot her, the prosecution said.
The defence team has said Mr Pistorius was suffering from an anxiety disorder.
Mr Pistorius and Ms Steenkamp, 29, had been dating for about three months before the shooting.
She was a model and law graduate.
He has often displayed his emotions during the trial, including breaking down in tears in court.
There are no juries at trials in South Africa, so the athlete's fate will ultimately be decided by the judge, assisted by two assessors.
If found guilty of murder, Mr Pistorius, who went on trial on 3 March, could face life imprisonment. If he is acquitted of that charge, the court will consider an alternative charge of culpable homicide, for which he could - if convicted - receive about 15 years in prison.
