Time Warner is girding to fight Murdoch's takeover offer - LA Times
Time Warner Chairman and Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes is in an uncomfortable position: The cross hairs of Rupert Murdoch.
For the last six years, Bewkes has presided over Time Warner, a genteel media company known for its sterling assets such as HBO, CNN and Warner Bros. movie and television studio. He has also systematically shed problematic assets, including AOL and magazine unit Time Inc.
The reshaping of Time Warner made the company more lean but inadvertently made it a perfect takeover target. And now Murdoch and his 21st Century Fox team are banging on the door.
"Time Warner will turn hostile and do everything in its power to prevent being taken over," predicted longtime media analyst Hal Vogel. "But if Rupert gets obsessed about having to buy Time Warner, and he does tend to get obsessed about these things, then he will end up overpaying."
Bewkes and other board members turned down Fox's $80-billion cash-and-stock offer. The company said it had no interest in pursuing discussions with Fox, calling its offer too low and questioning whether Fox's management was up to the task of leading such a huge conglomerate.
He said in a video message delivered to employees on the company's website that the board was unified in its belief that Time Warner would be stronger and more profitable on its own. He said the company was executing on its business plan, which was "superior to any proposal that Fox is in a position to offer."
But Time Warner is still girding for battle.
Nervous executives huddled in meetings in New York and Burbank on Thursday. Top management is "very resolved" to fend off Murdoch's advances, according to a Time Warner executive who asked not to be identified discussing strategy.
Analysts are not so certain that's the case. Wall Street clearly expects Fox to sweeten its offer. Shares of Time Warner jumped for the second straight day on Thursday, and are now up 21% at $86.12 since Fox's offer became public.
Murdoch might even be willing to go as high as $100 a share, according to Wells Fargo Securities senior analyst Marci Ryvicker. That would place the deal's value at $91 billion.
The key question, according to veteran media analyst Michael Nathanson, is: "At what price is 21st Century Fox willing to walk away?"
The answer is not clear. Fox executives plan to be disciplined in their pursuit of Time Warner, according to people familiar with the company's strategy.
Fox's stock closed down 23 cents at $32.77 on Thursday. But the stock hasn't collapsed, which the company takes as an encouraging sign that investors are supporting the takeover attempt.
Longtime observers point to Murdoch's pursuit of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co. as an example of the mogul's tenacity. Initially, the owners rebuffed Murdoch until the money -- at $5.6 billion -- became too good to pass up.
"Time Warner will try to resist or just extract the highest price possible," Vogel said. He placed the odds at about 50/50 as to whether Fox would prevail.
Several analysts wondered whether some other deep-pocketed bidder, such as Google Inc., might jump into the fray and make a bid for Time Warner.
Fox appears to be counting on investors to pressure Time Warner to accept a deal.
One reason for Fox's optimism: About 70% of Time Warner's shareholders also own Fox stock. Fox could use its connections with many big institutional investors to lobby for a deal.
Time Warner executives, particularly in the film business, fretted about a possible Fox takeover. Analysts have said that $1 billion to $2 billion could be saved by eliminating overlapping functions throughout the combined entity.
Warner Bros.' film studio is the largest in Hollywood, and known for spending more freely than competitors. 20th Century Fox, in contrast, maintains a reputation for being more tightfisted.
However, it is believed that the two studios would operate independently, at least, in the initial years.
Warner Bros. traditionally finishes No. 1 or No. 2 in the domestic box office market share. Last year, its films accounted for about 17% of the domestic box office, according to an analysis by the research firm MoffettNathanson. Fox films represented 11% of the market.
Buoyed by the strong performance of films including "X-Men: Days of Future Past" and "The Fault in Our Stars," 20th Century Fox is No. 1 in domestic box office market share this year, according to data from entertainment analytics firm Rentrak. Warner Bros. is No. 2.
Both studios have had their share of recent hits and disappointments. Warner Bros. can count "The Lego Movie" and "Godzilla" as successes, but it fared poorly with summer movies including "Blended" and "Jersey Boys."
Bill Gerber, who has a production deal at Warner Bros., said he doesn't believe a Fox takeover is "a foregone conclusion."
"I don't think people feel that consolidation is inevitable, but I think people are very concerned about it and want to know what's going to happen to them in the event of a merger," said Gerber, who produced last year's "Grudge Match" and served as Warner Bros.' worldwide president of theatrical production in the mid-1990s.
Gerber said that "Bewkes is up to the challenge" of fending off Fox.
If the two companies were to combine, Fox would control the output of more than a third of all scripted shows on the major broadcast networks.
20th Century Fox Television studio, which produces such hits as "Modern Family" and "Family Guy" is currently producing 20 prime-time shows for the major networks. Warner Bros., traditionally the most profitable TV studio with such hits as "Big Bang Theory," is producing 28 prime-time shows for the upcoming season.
The combined company would have a fleet of profitable cable channels, including Fox News, FX, TNT, TBS and Fox's sports channels. Murdoch has said it would sell Time Warner's cable news channel CNN to make the deal more palatable to regulators and lawmakers.

Rupert Murdoch's bid for Time Warner: the last great play of his career | Media | The Guardian
Rupert Murdoch, last of the great media moguls, has long been keen to secure a final mega-deal before handing the reins of his conglomerate to the next generation of his family. The power in media is shifting, cable companies and internet firms have regained their strength, and on Wednesday, it was revealed that Murdoch has made what may be his last great play: to make his massive empire even bigger.
Time Warner confirmed rumours that have been circulating for weeks - that it had received a takeover bid from Murdoch's 21st Century Fox. Together the two media behemoths would control a huge portfolio of assets including Warner Bros, producers of the Harry Potter and Batman movies; 21st Century Fox's X-Men and Avatar; and Time Warner's lucrative cable channels, including HBO, home of Game of Thrones and Fox's FX, Fox News and the Fox broadcast network.
But the deal will not be easy to pull off, even though Fox indicated that it would sell off Time Warner's CNN, which competes directly with Fox News. (CBS and ABC would be likely suitors, the New York Times reported.)
Time Warner said on Wednesday that it had rebuffed the deal, as it stood. The company's board balked at the $85-a-share cash and stock offer, a 25% premium on the company's share price, because they feared regulators would reject it, and were worried that the offer would hand control of the company to the Murdochs, who run their empire almost like a family business through a two-tier system of stocks.
"There is significant risk and uncertainty as to the valuation of 21st Century Fox's non-voting stock and 21st Century Fox's ability to govern and manage a combination of the size and scale of 21st Century Fox and Time Warner," the company said.
Yet Murdoch, who made his usual star appearance last week at an annual meeting of the moguls hosted by Allen & Co's investment bank in Sun Valley, Idaho, will not be put off so easily.
In polo shirt and baggy chinos, the fit and tanned 83-year-old was snapped chatting with his eldest son Lachlan, current heir-apparent in the Murdoch clan's own version of Game of Thrones, amid a crowd that included the new elite including Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, Google chairman Eric Schmidt and Amazon's Jeff Bezos.
Murdoch was in many ways the odd man out. Content is no longer king. The cable companies and internet firms that distributed the products his empire produces have amassed ever-greater control. Now the Murdoch appears to have hit upon a solution: create a content company big enough to shift the balance of power and hand his family control of a media empire ready for the battles ahead.
Time Warner confirms its rejection of the bid in a video to staff
David Folkenflik, NPR media correspondent and author of the book Murdoch's World, said the deal was driven in part by business logic: Murdoch wants to secure his business as companies like Amazon and Netflix move further into creating content. "At the same time he wants to write enough of a final chapter to take him well beyond the court cases that have wrapped up in London."
Folkenflik said the audacious move was also a bid by Murdoch to redefine his image after the hacking scandal, to demonstrate to the world he was "as relentless and as close to immortal as you can be."
"He wants it to show that his empire is larger than ever, that he's undaunted and that people think of him unceasingly growing the family empire and giving James and Lachlan more vineyards to play in," he said.
A merger would come as Comcast, the US's largest cable firm, tries to push through a takeover of Time Warner Cable, the second largest player that has consumer groups, and Murdoch, worrying about the power cable firms will soon exert over the media market.
Earlier this year Murdoch laid the groundwork for Lachlan to take the reigns after James Murdoch's career was derailed by the newspaper hacking scandal in the UK. Lachlan, who walked away from the empire almost a decade ago to set up his own investment company in Australia, was named as non-executive co-chairman of the entertainment and publishing companies, alongside his father.
James is still on hand as co-chief operating officer, with direct responsibility for developing Fox's pay-TV aspirations globally. The 41-year-old moved to New York to consolidate his position within the company, but also to distance himself from intense criticism of his handling of phone hacking as executive chairman of News UK.
Murdoch has been focused on building the scale of 21st Century Fox's TV and film business, after freeing it from the drag of the publishing assets which were spun off into a separate listed company last year. Buying Time Warner would be the crowning achievement of Murdoch's career as he looks to shake off the hacking scandal.
But it seems that Time Warner is determined to put up a fight, particularly over the issue of control.
Fox has two tiers of stock, voting and nonvoting. The Murdoch family owns less than a 20% of Fox's shares but its Class B shares control 40% of the votes. With the support of Saudi prince Alwaleed bin Talal, Fox's second largest shareholder, the Murdochs effectively have full control of the company.
That two-tiered structure, and the extent of Murdoch's control, has annoyed some powerful investors including the California Public Employees' Retirement System (CALPERS), the largest US public pension fund.
Time Warner's board said it was "confident" that its own strategic plan was "superior" to any offer Fox could make.
That's not likely to deter Murdoch from making a renewed bid. 21st Century Fox currently has more than $5bn cash on its balance sheet and could potentially add $10bn-plus more if BSkyB, in which Fox owns a 39% stake, successfully completes a buyout of Fox's Italian and German pay-TV businesses to create Sky Europe. Money will not be an issue and nor will Time Warner's highlighting of Fox's management issues.
Claire Enders, founder of media research firm Enders Analysis, said Time Warner had been asking for trouble. She said this would be a "colossal deal" for Fox but added: "Time Warner been real laggard in stock market terms for a long time with a lot of great assets that can now be plucked like a chicken."
On Wednesday as Time Warner's share price continued to rise on the news Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes made a video address to staff reassuring them that the deal was off. But for Murdoch, Wednesday was likely to be just the opening salvo in what may be the last great deal of his career.
"He's a pretty relentless suitor," said Folkenflik.
