Time Warner is girding to fight Murdoch's takeover offer - LA Times
Time Warner Chairman and Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes is in an uncomfortable position: The cross hairs of Rupert Murdoch.
For the last six years, Bewkes has presided over Time Warner, a genteel media company known for its sterling assets such as HBO, CNN and Warner Bros. movie and television studio. He has also systematically shed problematic assets, including AOL and magazine unit Time Inc.
The reshaping of Time Warner made the company more lean but inadvertently made it a perfect takeover target. And now Murdoch and his 21st Century Fox team are banging on the door.
"Time Warner will turn hostile and do everything in its power to prevent being taken over," predicted longtime media analyst Hal Vogel. "But if Rupert gets obsessed about having to buy Time Warner, and he does tend to get obsessed about these things, then he will end up overpaying."
Bewkes and other board members turned down Fox's $80-billion cash-and-stock offer. The company said it had no interest in pursuing discussions with Fox, calling its offer too low and questioning whether Fox's management was up to the task of leading such a huge conglomerate.
He said in a video message delivered to employees on the company's website that the board was unified in its belief that Time Warner would be stronger and more profitable on its own. He said the company was executing on its business plan, which was "superior to any proposal that Fox is in a position to offer."
But Time Warner is still girding for battle.
Nervous executives huddled in meetings in New York and Burbank on Thursday. Top management is "very resolved" to fend off Murdoch's advances, according to a Time Warner executive who asked not to be identified discussing strategy.
Analysts are not so certain that's the case. Wall Street clearly expects Fox to sweeten its offer. Shares of Time Warner jumped for the second straight day on Thursday, and are now up 21% at $86.12 since Fox's offer became public.
Murdoch might even be willing to go as high as $100 a share, according to Wells Fargo Securities senior analyst Marci Ryvicker. That would place the deal's value at $91 billion.
The key question, according to veteran media analyst Michael Nathanson, is: "At what price is 21st Century Fox willing to walk away?"
The answer is not clear. Fox executives plan to be disciplined in their pursuit of Time Warner, according to people familiar with the company's strategy.
Fox's stock closed down 23 cents at $32.77 on Thursday. But the stock hasn't collapsed, which the company takes as an encouraging sign that investors are supporting the takeover attempt.
Longtime observers point to Murdoch's pursuit of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co. as an example of the mogul's tenacity. Initially, the owners rebuffed Murdoch until the money -- at $5.6 billion -- became too good to pass up.
"Time Warner will try to resist or just extract the highest price possible," Vogel said. He placed the odds at about 50/50 as to whether Fox would prevail.
Several analysts wondered whether some other deep-pocketed bidder, such as Google Inc., might jump into the fray and make a bid for Time Warner.
Fox appears to be counting on investors to pressure Time Warner to accept a deal.
One reason for Fox's optimism: About 70% of Time Warner's shareholders also own Fox stock. Fox could use its connections with many big institutional investors to lobby for a deal.
Time Warner executives, particularly in the film business, fretted about a possible Fox takeover. Analysts have said that $1 billion to $2 billion could be saved by eliminating overlapping functions throughout the combined entity.
Warner Bros.' film studio is the largest in Hollywood, and known for spending more freely than competitors. 20th Century Fox, in contrast, maintains a reputation for being more tightfisted.
However, it is believed that the two studios would operate independently, at least, in the initial years.
Warner Bros. traditionally finishes No. 1 or No. 2 in the domestic box office market share. Last year, its films accounted for about 17% of the domestic box office, according to an analysis by the research firm MoffettNathanson. Fox films represented 11% of the market.
Buoyed by the strong performance of films including "X-Men: Days of Future Past" and "The Fault in Our Stars," 20th Century Fox is No. 1 in domestic box office market share this year, according to data from entertainment analytics firm Rentrak. Warner Bros. is No. 2.
Both studios have had their share of recent hits and disappointments. Warner Bros. can count "The Lego Movie" and "Godzilla" as successes, but it fared poorly with summer movies including "Blended" and "Jersey Boys."
Bill Gerber, who has a production deal at Warner Bros., said he doesn't believe a Fox takeover is "a foregone conclusion."
"I don't think people feel that consolidation is inevitable, but I think people are very concerned about it and want to know what's going to happen to them in the event of a merger," said Gerber, who produced last year's "Grudge Match" and served as Warner Bros.' worldwide president of theatrical production in the mid-1990s.
Gerber said that "Bewkes is up to the challenge" of fending off Fox.
If the two companies were to combine, Fox would control the output of more than a third of all scripted shows on the major broadcast networks.
20th Century Fox Television studio, which produces such hits as "Modern Family" and "Family Guy" is currently producing 20 prime-time shows for the major networks. Warner Bros., traditionally the most profitable TV studio with such hits as "Big Bang Theory," is producing 28 prime-time shows for the upcoming season.
The combined company would have a fleet of profitable cable channels, including Fox News, FX, TNT, TBS and Fox's sports channels. Murdoch has said it would sell Time Warner's cable news channel CNN to make the deal more palatable to regulators and lawmakers.

Murdoch Is Rebuffed in $80 Billion Offer for Time Warner - Business - The Boston Globe
NEW YORK -- The media giant 21st Century Fox, run by Rupert Murdoch, made an $80 billion takeover bid in recent weeks for Time Warner Inc. but was rebuffed.
The bold approach could put Time Warner in play and might again ignite a reshaping of the media industry, prompting megamergers among the largest entertainment companies.
Continue reading below
Over nearly five decades, Murdoch, 83, has built a global juggernaut spanning studios, television channels, and newspapers, in part by pursuing bold deals that were often rebuffed at first by targets that would later acquiesce.
Time Warner on Wednesday confirmed it had rejected a cash-and-stock offer from 21st Century Fox. It said its own strategic plan would "create significantly more value."
It also pointed to regulatory risks in a merger and "uncertainty" over the value of nonvoting shares of 21st Century Fox. Unlike Time Warner, which has no controlling shareholder, 21st Century Fox is controlled by the Murdoch family, which has 39.4 percent of the voting rights of Class B shares.
Time Warner said 21st Century Fox offered 1.531 of its Class A nonvoting common shares and $32.42 in cash for every Time Warner share -- or a total of nearly $86.30, a premium of roughly 22 percent to Time Warner's closing price on Tuesday. Time Warner's stock closed up 17 percent to $83.13 on Wednesday.
Together, 21st Century Fox and Time Warner would be a colossus with an array of such television networks and channels as Fox, Fox News, FX, TNT, and TBS; the premium subscription channel HBO; movie studios 20th Century Fox and Warner Bros.; and other prominent outlets. It would also combine Fox's growing sports business with the broadcast rights Time Warner owns for professional and college basketball and Major League Baseball, among other sports.
Continue reading below
A combined company would have revenue of $65 billion.
People briefed on the proposal said 21st Century Fox indicated it would sell CNN to head off potential antitrust concerns, since Fox News competes directly with CNN. Putting CNN on the auction block would probably stir up a bidding war for the news channel; both CBS and ABC, a unit of Walt Disney Co., have long been viewed as interested suitors.
Time Warner has over several years spun off AOL, Time Warner Cable, and publications such as Time and Fortune, leaving an entertainment company many analysts think would be an attractive asset. Murdoch's empire has also been split, with The Wall Street Journal, The New York Post, the publisher HarperCollins, and other assets forming News Corp.
21st Century Fox first approached Time Warner in early June, the people briefed on the matter said. 21st Century Fox said it would raise $24 billion to help pay for the deal and stressed that its bid was not dependent on financing.
The company estimated a combination would create $1 billion in cost savings and possibly more, primarily by cutting sales staff and back-office functions.
Time Warner's board discussed the bid, the people briefed said, and on July 8 said no. It is unclear what 21st Century Fox's next step will be. People involved in the talks say Murdoch is not apt to walk away.
Sweeping portfolios
Here's a look at some of the assets each company owns and some of the movies and TV shows they have produced.
TIME WARNER
TV networks: Cartoon Network, CNN, HBO, TBS, TNT
Studios: Warner Bros. Pictures, Telepictures Productions
Movies: ''The Lego Movie,'' "Godzilla,'' "Edge of Tomorrow''
TV shows produced: ''2 Broke Girls,'' "Arrow,'' "Two And a Half Men,'' "The Vampire Diaries''
Famous characters: Batman, Superman, Bugs Bunny
21sT CENTURY FOX
TV networks: Fox Broadcast, Fox News, Fox Sports, FX, YES Network
Studios: Twentieth Century Fox, Blue Sky Studios
Movies: ''Dawn of the Planet of the Apes,'' "Ice Age: Continental Drift,'' "Rio 2,'' "X-Men,'' "Avatar''
TV shows produced: ''Modern Family,'' "American Horror Story,'' "Glee,'' "The Simpsons''
