Fox digs in on Time Warner | Business News | Business and Finance News | | Herald Sun
Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox will remain undeterred in its pursuit of US media conglomerate Time Warner after its mammoth $US80 billion ($A85bn) unsolicited bid for the company was rejected.
It is understood Fox is hopeful Time Warner will reconsider the stock-and-cash proposal, with the company's share registry wide open and the company now officially in play.
Mr Murdoch is standing firm as observers recall that the media mogul experienced rejection with his surprise $US5bn offer for Dow Jones in 2007 but eventually succeeded.
The former owners of The Wall Street Journal, which included a vast array of family members, pushed away his initial takeover for the company, but News Corporation, Fox's sister company, now owns the Journal.
Bloomberg News has claimed Mr Murdoch is willing to go above the $US85-a-share price that Time Warner batted away. Nathaniel Brown, a spokesman for Fox, declined to comment.
Time Warner knocked backed Fox's proposal, saying there were "considerable strategic, operational, and regulatory risks to executing a combination with 21st Century Fox". Shares in Time Warner surged 17 per cent to $US83.13 yesterday, while Fox declined 6.2 per cent to $US33.
Time Warner's chief executive, Jeffrey Bewkes, sent staff a video discussing his rejection of the offer, as sources close to Mr Murdoch said he was not done trying.
"Quite simply, the board concluded that continuing to execute our strategic plan and our business plans will create significantly more value for the company and our shareholders, and that that's superior to any proposal that Fox is in a position to offer," Mr Bewkes said in the video message also posted to YouTube.
Observers noted that anyone with a passing or long-term interest in Time Warner has been forced by Mr Murdoch to decide whether to bid or pass on the opportunity forever.
If Mr Murdoch were to succeed to gain control of Time Warner -- its share register is dominated by institutional investors -- the deal would transform the media industry, creating a behemoth with $US61bn in revenue, the largest media company by revenue in the world.
The combined entity would bring Time Warner's HBO under the same roof as Fox's movie studios and sports channels. It would also hand Fox control of two competing news channels, Fox News and Time Warner's CNN. Mr Murdoch is likely to offload CNN to avoid competition concerns, and clear regulatory hurdles.
Since the global financial crisis, media companies have struggled to find strong growth in a weak consumer environment and a soft advertising market. But with the cost of taking on debt at its cheapest levels since the GFC, and broader consolidation occurring across the distribution side of the entertainment and media business among telcos, Mr Murdoch has identified merger and acquisition activity as a spur for growth.
Comcast recently announced a $US45bn deal to buy Time Warner Cable, an entirely separate company to Time Warner. Months later, AT&T proposed to buy DirecTV for $US48.5bn.
Market analysts in Australia observed that if Fox was still listed on the local stockmarket, the market would have been on target this year to enjoy its biggest year of mergers and acquisitions activity since the boom year of 2007.
In the first half of calendar 2014, overall announced M&As involving Australian companies reached $US69.5bn, double the same period last year, according to Thomson Reuters data.
Deal flow has also exploded globally, amid historically cheap debt, soft organic growth and pent-up demand after years of corporates sitting on their hands.
Earlier in the year, Fox shareholders approved the entertainment company's plan to delist from the Australian Securities Exchange, as part of an agenda to simplify its operating structure and cut compliance costs. That followed last June's split of News Corporation into two companies, Fox and a company retaining the News Corp name, holding publishing brands including The Wall Street Journal, The Australian and The Times of London .
Mr Murdoch's move has fired the starting pistol on corporate activity in the global media sector, with John Malone's Liberty Global acquiring a 6.4 per cent stake in British broadcaster ITV for PS481 million ($824.18m).
Liberty Global acquired the stake from Fox's British satellite broadcaster BSkyB. More deals are expected before the end of the year.
"This is an opportunistic and attractive investment for us in our largest cable market. ITV is the leading commercial broadcaster in the UK and we're excited to be shareholders," Liberty Global's chief executive Mike Fries said.
