Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

U.S. auto sales expected to rise in June; GM, Toyota and Nissan see gains | CTV News | Autos
DETROIT -- U.S. auto sales grew at the fastest pace in eight years in June, surprising the industry and setting it up for a strong second half of the year.
Sales rose 1.2 per cent over last June to 1.4 million cars and trucks, according to Autodata Corp. GM, Toyota, Hyundai and Nissan all saw increases over last June. Honda sales were flat, while sales at Ford and Volkswagen were down.
June's annualized sales rate -- which estimates annual sales if they stayed at the same pace every month -- was 16.98 million. That was the fastest pace since July 2006 and higher even than May, which also surprised the industry with its strength.
Jesse Toprak, an auto analyst for the car buying site Cars.com, said buyers are out because of low interest rates, a strong stock market -- which improves confidence -- and great new vehicles. An easing in lending standards is also adding more potential buyers to the market.
"We're getting set up on a very good footing for the second half of the year," Toprak said. "The last two months have exceeded expectations, which tells us that the consumer demand is very strong."
Toprak said he may increase his annual sales forecast from 16.1 million vehicles to 16.3 million based on May and June sales. That compares with 15.6 million vehicles sold in the U.S. last year.
May sales were helped by five sunny weekends and the Memorial Day holiday, which got June off to a slow start. But Ford's U.S. sales chief John Felice said sales picked up at the end of last month as automakers started promoting Independence Day sales.
Analysts saw plenty to like in June. Forecasting firm LMC Automotive said automakers are carefully balancing production with demand, which has helped them maintain profits and cut back on big incentives that can eventually hurt resale values.
TrueCar estimated incentive spending rose 1.6 per cent in June to an average of $2,735 per vehicle. Both GM and Nissan lowered incentives by 12 per cent from last June.
While incentives may be lower, buyers are taking advantage of good lease offers and low interest rates. The average interest rate for a 60-month new car loan is 3.18 per cent. Three years ago, that was closer to 5.5 per cent, according to Bankrate.com.
GM's sales were up 1 per cent over last June despite a continuing parade of recalls. GM's total safety recalls for the year reached 29 million vehicles on Monday, when the automaker announced six new recalls of 8.4 million cars. Two of those recalls were for ignition switch problems, the same issue that began the company's recall crisis in February.
Kelley Blue Book analyst Alec Gutierrez said GM is benefiting from its new lineup of SUVs, which hit the market at a time when buyers are gravitating toward bigger vehicles. Sales of the Chevrolet Tahoe large SUV nearly doubled to more than 11,000, while sales of the GMC Yukon more than doubled to 3,946. Cadillac Escalade sales were up 57 per cent.
Toyota's sales rose 3 per cent as the Camry and Corolla sedans both posted double-digit gains. Sales of the new 4Runner SUV were up 42 per cent.
Ford's sales dropped 6 per cent as the company cut back on discounts for the F-Series pickup, which is the bestselling vehicle in the U.S. Ford is trying to limit sales of the outgoing F-Series as it prepares to close its truck plants and change over to a new, aluminum-sided F-150 pickup, which will go on sale late this year. F-Series sales fell 11 per cent in June to 60,560.
Other automakers said:
Chrysler's sales jumped 9 per cent on strong demand for the new Jeep Cherokee SUV and other models. It was the company's strongest June since 2007, with gains for the Jeep, Ram, Dodge and Fiat brands.
Honda's sales were flat. Sales of most models declined, including the Odyssey minivan and CR-V SUV, but sales of the Accord and Civic sedans were up.
Nissan's sales were up 5 per cent on strong sales of the new Rogue SUV as well as higher car sales. Sales of the Sentra small car were up 68 per cent.
Hyundai's sales rose 4 per cent on the strength of the new Sonata sedan, which jumped 29.5 per cent.
Subaru's sales were up 5 per cent on strong demand for the new Forester, which was up 30 per cent.
