Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

GM's ignition-switch crisis deepens; death toll rises to 16 | Business Standard News
General Motors Co's ongoing safety crisis over deadly ignition switches deepened on Monday with the recall of 8.23 million mostly older cars linked by the US automaker to three deaths.
The latest recalls boosted the number of deaths acknowledged by GM to at least 16. The automaker said it now knows of 61 crashes tied to faulty ignition switches, although US lawmakers and safety regulators have said they expect the death toll to climb.
A Reuters investigation in early June found that at least 74 people had died in GM cars in accidents with similarities to those that GM earlier had linked to 13 deaths involving defective ignition switches.
The report on Monday of additional fatalities and recalls "confirms our fears that GM's safety failures were much more widespread than initially reported," said US House Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican, whose committee twice has interviewed GM CEO Mary Barra.
GM said the latest victims will not be included in a compensation fund set up to provide at least $1 million to victims of crashes tied to defective switches in older compact cars, including the Chevrolet Cobalt and Saturn Ion. Details of that fund, which is being administered by attorney Kenneth Feinberg, were announced earlier on Monday.
The latest victims were killed in two separate high-speed crashes, one involving a 2003 Chevrolet Impala, the other a 2004 Impala, according to GM spokesman Jim Cain.
The air bags failed to deploy in both crashes, Cain said, but GM cannot conclusively link the nondeployment to the ignition switches.
The latest recalls, covering compact and midsize cars, sedans and crossovers from model years 1997-2014, swell the total number of vehicles recalled by GM this year to 29 million. GM last year sold 2.8 million vehicles in the United States and 9.7 million globally. So far this year, GM has recalled more cars than the entire U.S. industry did in 2013.
The automaker also said on Monday it would increase by $500 million a second-quarter charge to cover the cost of the recalls. So far this year, the writedowns are expected to total $2.5 billion.
GM earlier this year recalled nearly 2.6 million Cobalts, Ions and other small cars with defective switches that it linked to 54 crashes and at least 13 deaths.
Earlier this month, it recalled more than 500,000 Chevrolet Camaro sports cars and another 3.4 million midsize and fullsize sedans, including Chevrolet Impalas and Cadillac DeVilles.
LEGAL PROBLEMS
On Monday, GM issued two separate recalls, both related to ignition switches which it said could be turned off because of "inadvertent key rotation." In turn, that could shut off the engine and cut power to steering, brakes and air bags - issues similar to those that triggered the earlier recalls.
Affected are 7.61 million older sedans and coupes dating back to model year 1997, including 2000-2005 Chevrolet Impalas and 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibus. Also recalled were 616,179 Cadillacs from model years 2003-2014, including the CTS coupe and sedan and the SRX crossover.
The 2004-2006 Cadillac SRX used a switch part similar to that on the 2003 Saturn Ion, Reuters reported in April. GM engineers told the switch supplier, Delphi Automotive (DLPH.N), about accidentally turning off ignition switches in a Cadillac SRX with their knees more than eight years ago, according to documents provided to U.S. safety regulators.
The original SRX ignition-switch part also was used in the 2003-2007 Cadillac CTS, according to online GM parts catalogs reviewed by Reuters. Delphi supplied the switches for the 2003-2007 CTS and the 2004-2009 SRX, it told the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
GM did not recall the SRX and the CTS for switch-related issues, however, until Monday.
As it has done previously, GM urged owners to remove all items from key rings, including the fob, leaving only the ignition key. It said it would provide dealers with an insert to change the key-head design from a slot to a hole to reduce the chance of the key ring and fob turning off the switch.
In early June, GM released a 325-page report on the 11-year process of identifying defects in the Cobalt and Ion that eventually led to the recall of those cars earlier this year. The report was prepared by Anton Valukas, chairman of GM's outside law firm Jenner & Block, and largely exonerated top executives.
But GM faces legal problems on a number of fronts. A county district attorney in California on Monday announced a lawsuit accusing GM of being a threat to public safety by concealing at least 35 safety defects that have prompted the recall of millions of vehicles.
GM previously has acknowledged that the U.S. Department of Justice is investigating how it handled the recall of the Cobalt and Ion.
GM shares closed down 0.9 percent at $36.30 on Monday.
