Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

It's been GM's horrible year. Not only is the nation's No. 1 automaker responsible for the lion's share of vehicle recalls in a record year, but it also has had to announce a recall for nearly every model that it makes.
Of its key models, only three of more than three dozen haven't required the automaker to tell customers to bring the cars to dealers for work, a search of General Motors and federal recall records by TheDetroitBureau.com shows.
Sign up for top Business news direct to your inbox.
The only key models not among the list of 54 recalls this year are:
Chevrolet Equinox crossover;
GMC Terrain, which shares the same basic crossover platform; and
Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid.
A few product variants, such as the battery-electric version of the Chevy Spark minicar, also have been exempt so far.
GM told TheDetroitbureau.com that it is "aggressively reviewing product issues and will not hesitate to conduct a recall if it is determined to be the right thing for customers. We have changed our safety review processes and added 35 investigators so we can move more quickly to address issues as they arise."
GM's recall numbers are daunting: 54 separate recalls in just six months affecting nearly 26 million vehicles sold in the U.S., nearly 29 million worldwide. That works out to one separate recall nearly every three days. GM has a record for any individual manufacturer, and has pushed the overall U.S. auto industry to an all-time record, with manufacturers collectively recalling about 39 million vehicles in just six months, 20 percent more than the previous peak for all of 2014.
When GM's recall frenzy began in mid-February, with the first recall related to faulty ignition switches, senior executives including CEO Mary Barra were quick to point out that the problems were largely focused on products built by the "Old GM," before the maker's 2009 bankruptcy, such as the now abandoned Chevrolet Cobalt. If anything, newer models, such as the 2014 Chevy Impala, they stressed, were winning rave reviews and endorsements from the likes of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.
While the ongoing recalls continue to sweep up older products -- including this week's callback of 8.4 million vehicles worldwide dating back to 1997 for "unintended ignition key rotation" -- a growing number of new models are also being targeted.
A preliminary search indicates that no other major manufacturer has come close to the product-line breadth that GM has experienced with its recalls in 2014. Toyota likely came closest in 2010 when it recalled a wide array of products for a series of issues ranging from faulty airbags to excess corrosion to unintended acceleration.
GM estimates the recalls will cost it $2.5 billion for the first half of this year. It has also set up a compensation fund related to the ignition switch defect and will offer at least $1 million to families of crash victims.
What has most surprised industry observers is the apparent lack of impact that GM's recall problems have so far had on the maker. They had expected GM to report a sales decline of at least 1 percent for June, but sales actually rose 1 percent over year-earlier numbers.
Generally favorable reviews for products such as the Chevy Impala, Corvette and Silverado pickup -- voted North American Car and Truck of the Year for 2014 -- appear to be comforting shoppers who might otherwise steer clear of GM's four U.S. brands.
If anything, analyst Dave Sullivan of AutoPacific Inc. says he sees a positive side to the maker's switch from stonewalling on recalls to ordering callbacks even before it faces pressure from regulators.
"I like the fact that they're saying they're not going to wait," said Sullivan. "If anything, they're recalling things even before there's a statistical trend. They're starting fresh."
Whether GM continues the recall pace during the second half of the year remains to be seen. But Barra was proven wrong when she suggested, more than a month ago, that the worst was over. June alone brought the recall of roughly 12 million vehicles in the U.S.
And eventually, warned Anthony Johndrow, a managing partner with New York's Reputation Institute, that is bound to have an impact, the "death-of-a-thousand-cuts" syndrome.
One of the other concerns is whether GM owners might be experiencing so-called "recall fatigue." The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has found that only 70 percent of vehicle owners, on average, bring their cars, trucks or crossovers in for the required fixes. If the same holds true, that means nearly 8 million of the GM vehicles covered by U.S. recalls this year could potentially go unrepaired.
"That's a significant number of vehicles on the road, and whether or not you own one you'll be driving next to one," said analyst Sullivan. "That's an alarming thought."
More from The Detroit Bureau:
Automakers Obliterate Recall Record in Just Six Months
Corvette Museum's New Attraction: Sinkhole that Ate 'Em
Kia, Audi, Jaguar Tops in "Total" Quality: Survey
First published July 2 2014, 1:47 AM
