Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

GM to offer at least $1m for each death
Wed, 02 Jul 2014 6:43 AM
US Senator Edward Markey holds up a faulty General Motors ignition switch during a press conference. AFP
General Motors says it will pay unlimited compensation for victims of car accidents tied to faulty ignition switches.
Facing possibly hundreds of death and injury claims for a problem the company covered up for more than a decade, GM offered an extensive compensation programme for those killed or injured in accidents related to the defective switch in the 2.6 million cars recalled in February and March.
The leading US automaker said it would accept claims from the broadest possible victim population, including people who have already settled previous claims for the same problem.
Kenneth Feinberg, the compensation expert GM hired to organise payouts to victims, made clear that the minimum $1-million payout to the families of at least 13 people killed would be just a starting point for claims for economic losses and hardship.
"There is no ceiling on the aggregate dollars," he said.
Victims will be able to file for lost earnings and benefits over a prospective lifetime, and costs of special care needed by injured victims over a lifetime. Those could come to many millions of dollars apiece.
Hours after the announcement, GM issued six recalls totalling 8.4 million vehicles in North America -- 7.6 million in the US.
The bulk of them, 8.2 million, were being recalled for "unintended ignition key rotation" tied to three fatalities.
The latest announcement means the Detroit automaker has now recalled roughly 30 million vehicles so far this year.
The company raised its second-quarter charge for recall-related costs to $1.2-billion from $700-million, bringing the first-half charge to $2.5-billion.
Feinberg said GM would not hide behind its 2009 bankruptcy restructuring to protect it from liabilities.
"For accidents, the GM bankruptcy is no bar to filing a claim on this programme," Feinberg said.
Even people who may have been texting or drunk in an accident that can be tied to the faulty ignition switch would be eligible.
"This programme is aimed at compensation for defective switches," Feinberg said.
He emphasised that no victim is compelled to join the programme and those who do will still be able to sue the company separately for damages. Only once they accept a payout under the programme would they give up the right to file further claims.
The breadth of the victim base, and so the total costs the automaker is facing, remained unclear.
Feinberg, who in the past has been involved in setting compensation for damages from the BP oil spill and the Boston marathon bombing, will have full authority to decide GM's payouts for death and injuries.
GM has so far publicly acknowledged 13 deaths in 54 accidents linked to the ignition switch defect, but federal safety officials suggest the toll could be higher.
The problem stems from faulty ignitions in several models of GM cars from the 2005-2012 model years. The ignitions could be jolted into "accessory" or "off" position while the car was running and turn off the power steering and, crucially, airbag deployment in a collision.
GM has admitted knowing of the problem for more than a decade before launching a recall of 2.6 million Chevrolet Cobalt, Saturn Ion and other cars in February.
The company is under both federal criminal and congressional investigations for hiding the problem for years.
In the base plan announced by Feinberg, for each eligible death claim, in addition to the minimum $1-million for the victim, $300 000 will be awarded for the surviving spouse and another $300 000 for each of the victim's surviving dependents.
Financial and medical treatment compensation of at least $20 000 will also be offered for those with eligible physical injury claims from an accident.
Compensation claims will be taken from August 1 through December 31.
But the compensation programme does not cover claims for accidents in which an airbag deployed and/or the seatbelt "pretensioner" -- the device that removes slack early in a crash -- worked.
GM's chief executive Mary Barra, who took the company's top job just weeks before the ignition-switch recall began, welcomed Feinberg's plan.
"We are taking responsibility for what has happened by treating them with compassion, decency and fairness," Barra said in a statement.
AFP
