Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

Kenneth Feinberg On GM Payouts: 'Fast Is Possible, Fair Isn't' - Law Blog - WSJ
Getty Images
How do you put a price tag on a human life?
That question is Kenneth Feinberg's job description in a nutshell.
Lawmakers, companies and large organizations call upon the Washington, D.C., lawyer to direct compensation funds to pay the victims and loved ones following tragedies like the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, 2013 Boston Marathon bombings and corporate mishaps like the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
On Monday, Mr. Feinberg outlined the detailed strategy that General Motors Co. will follow in making payouts to the injured and families of the dead killed in accidents linked to Chevrolet Cobalts equipped with a defective ignition switch. Individual payouts could be anywhere from $20,000 to several million, and it is still unknown how much the program will ultimately cost GM. Those who accept a check must waive their right to sue the company.
The lawyer says he handles the thorny, emotionally and fiscally complex work of compensation by working quickly to "get the money moving out the door."
Mr. Feinberg spoke to The Wall Street Journal about what is next for GM and how empathy figures into his job. Edited excerpts:
Q: How do you think your plan to compensate those affected by the ignition switch recall will be received by the company, lawyers and victims?
A: I don't think anybody will be perfectly satisfied with this program. It will work because it is voluntary and the only real test of whether a program like this is how quickly you can deliver compensation to victims.
The longer you hold up delivery of compensation, the more skeptical people become. The more angry they become and the more frustrated. The key to all of these programs--9/11 and BP and One Fund Boston and Virginia Tech--is, how soon can you get money out the door? All the words in the world are ultimately meaningless if the money doesn't flow. That is the way it is.
Q: Is a compensation plan something more companies should consider using?
A: Companies have to weigh the cost, the litigation alternative and the public-relations black eye. You can't come up with a formula for when companies should create a program like this. These programs are exceedingly rare.
The normal approach is litigate. Look at the Exxon Valdez [oil tanker that ran aground in Prince William Sound in 1989, spilling hundreds of thousands of barrel of oil in Alaska]. They did so for years. Millions for defense. That is the American way.
Q: Why did GM and BP PLC, the company responsible in the Deepwater Horizon spill, create compensation funds for victims?
A: They take the view [that] they are not in the claims business. We make automobiles and we drill for oil. That is what they know best. This whole American legal system and mass claims and litigation....We think we need help in getting over this problem so we can do what we do best... and that is what GM and BP decided to do.
Q: How do you set the price tag on a person's life?
A: You look at how much would a person have earned over a lifetime but for this tragedy. The statistics are out there and judges and juries do it every day. Add to that pain and suffering visit on the victim and emotional distress visited on the survivors. What I do not do, and some people think I do this, is value the moral integrity of any person. Priests and rabbis might take a look at that but I can't do that.
The dollars associated with claims are a calculation. If a stockbroker falls off a ladder, he will get more money from a jury than if a waiter or a busboy falls off a ladder. It is the American system. The loss value of a professional work life. It is not existential and it is not moral evaluation. No one can do that.
Continue reading on WSJ.com.
