Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

WASHINGTON: GM opens gates for victim claims, recalls 8.4 million more cars - Business Breaking News - MiamiHerald.com
WASHINGTON -- Beleaguered General Motors unveiled a compensation plan with no caps Monday for those harmed by crashes stemming from faulty ignition switches in its Chevy Cobalts and multiple other models, even while announcing the costly recall of another 8.4 million cars, the vast majority with similar defects.
The firm's outside compensation guru, Kenneth Feinberg, told a news conference that its 2009 bankruptcy "will not be a bar" to the filing of claims for accidents that occurred before it sought Chapter 11 protection, assuring that those victims will not be left empty handed.
General Motors has previously fought individual lawsuits on behalf of crash victims and survivors of some of the 13 known fatality victims on grounds that the company was shielded from liability by its 2009 bankruptcy filing.
Feinberg's announcement represented the automaker's latest attempt to deal head-on with the fallout from its failure, over more than a decade, to address defects that caused ignition switches to slide to the "auxiliary" or off positions while vehicles were in motion. The engine shutoffs are believed to have disabled air bags, leaving drivers and passengers prone if the cars crashed.
With the Justice Department still conducting a criminal investigation of GM's failure to act long ago on the ignition switch problem, GM has seemed in a weekly race to air its dirty laundry as it discloses defects in one model after another.
The latest recalls, involving an array of seven Cadillac, Chevy, Oldsmobile and Pontiac models between 1997 and 2014, brought to a staggering 29 million the number of vehicles for which the Detroit automaker has announced it would take responsibility for repairing defects this year.
The company said it is aware of seven crashes, eight injuries and three fatalities in older model, full-size sedans being recalls for inadvertent ignition key rotations, but said there is not conclusive evidence that the defect caused the crashes.
"We undertook what I believe is the most comprehensive safety review in the history of our company, because nothing is more important than the safety of our customers," GM Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra said of the latest recalls. "Our customers deserve more than we delivered in these vehicles.
"This has hardened my resolve to set a new industry standard for safety, quality and excellence."
GM has said it would take charges exceeding $2.5 billion for the various recalls, and the compensation program and a Justice Department case could send the total pricetag of the auto safety scandal past $5 billion, not to mention the cost of any long-term impact on the company's image with consumers.
In hiring Feinberg last spring, Barra said she gave him total discretion in designing the compensation program.
Feinberg set no cap on the amount of compensation in individual cases and said those who've already agreed to court settlements without being aware of the ignition switch defect will be eligible to seek higher compensation through the company's claims program. Nor will there be an aggregate cap for compensation under the program.
Claims will accepted beginning Aug. 1 and may be submitted for any accident until Dec. 31, 2014, and he will aim to distribute compensation within 90 days - 180 days in complicated cases, he said.
Those who file claims will not waive their rights to seek restitution in court unless they are satisfied with the compensation offered by Feinberg.
"This program is designed to provide swift compensation to eligible victims of ignition switch defects in certain GM vehicles," Feinberg said. "We will work closely with all individual claimants and their lawyers in evaluating individual claims and reaching a determination as to eligibility and value as soon as possible."
Feinberg may be the nation's leading expert on victim compensation, after administering funds for victims of the Sept. 11th terror attacks, the explosion of a BP oil-drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico and last year's Boston Marathon bombings.
He said that he set no cap on individual claims because that's an "arbitrary" figure that would be "disingenuous."
Feinberg said that he and his staff "benefited greatly in the design of this program from the input and constructive advice received from lawyers representing claimants, non-profit public interest groups and GM itself."
Under the GM program, Feinberg will have sole discretion over the awards, including eligibility and the amounts awarded.
Drivers who were intoxicated, speeding or negligent in other ways will still be eligible for compensation if their faulty ignition switches caused an accident, he said.
A notice of the program will be sent to 3 million people who bought GM cars, Feinberg said.
Barra said in a statement that the company is "pleased that Mr. Feinberg has completed the next step with our ignition switch compensation program to help victims and their families.
"We are taking responsibility for what has happened by treating them with compassion, decency and fairness," she said. "To that end, we are looking forward to Mr. Feinberg handling claims in a fair and expeditious manner."

