Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

GM fund to pay millions to victims of faulty ignition switches - Los Angeles Times
General Motors Co. will pay millions of dollars to victims in crashes caused by faulty ignition switches, the automaker's latest effort to move quickly past a mounting auto safety scandal.
The program, outlined Monday by Kenneth Feinberg, a victims' compensation consultant hired by GM, would offer payments ranging from a few thousand to several million dollars to crash victims or their heirs.
For example, Feinberg said, a paralyzed 10-year-old child might receive $7.8 million based on lost future earnings, while a parent with two children might get $4 million after losing a spouse who earned $46,400 a year.
Victims or their heirs would have to give up the right to sue GM in order to receive the money. The goal is to get checks out quickly once people file claims for compensation starting Aug. 1, said Feinberg, who has administered compensation funds for the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and other high-profile incidents.
"Individuals who have suffered terribly in this whole experience deserve prompt treatment of their claim, and we will do that," Feinberg said at a Washington news conference.
Also Monday, GM recalled an additional 7.6 million vehicles in the U.S., mostly for ignition switch issues. The company has aggressively recalled cars this year, almost 26 million during the first six months. That's more than the entire industry has recalled in each of the last nine years.
Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), who pushed GM to create the compensation fund, said victims should have the right to wait until the Justice Department completes a criminal investigation before deciding whether to accept GM's settlement offer.
"GM cannot put arbitrary deadlines in the way of justice," Blumenthal said.
People can start filing claims Aug. 1 and must submit them by Dec. 31. Once a claim is ready for review, compensation will be paid in 90 to 180 days, Feinberg said. He said in an interview that he might consider extending the decision period if the Justice Department investigation takes longer to conclude.
The compensation fund will address accidents involving about 2.6 million vehicles recalled for ignition switch failures. In those cases, the faulty switch can suddenly shut down the vehicle, turning off crucial functions such as the power steering and air bags.
GM has acknowledged at least 13 deaths and more than 50 crashes resulting from the defect, but federal safety investigators say the numbers could be higher. Feinberg said GM said it has received about 3,500 inquiries claiming injuries or deaths. The automaker knew about the problem for at least a decade but waited until earlier this year to start to recall the cars.
GM has accepted blame for the problem. An internal investigation cited poor communication and incompetence for the automaker's failure to recall the cars promptly.
GM also faces ongoing investigations by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Congress into why it delayed recalling the defective vehicles.
Feinberg said the program was voluntary and that he would be the sole decision maker on the size of the payments. Under his agreement with the automaker, GM does not have the right to veto an award. Moreover, the program has no cap. GM will pay whatever Feinberg deems is appropriate for each claim.
Laura Christian of Harwood, Md., the mother of 16-year-old Amber Marie Rose, who died in a 2005 accident in which the air bags did not deploy in her vehicle, said she was still processing the information and would discuss the compensation fund details with her attorney.
"It was quite difficult to hear Amber being reduced to a dollar amount," Christian said.
Robert Hilliard, an attorney representing some of the victims, is urging his clients to file claims. They might get more money than they would in a trial because Feinberg doesn't plan to consider contributory negligence, such as impaired driving or failure to wear seat belts.
Further, some states cap awards at amounts that could be less than what the fund might offer, he said.
"There is no downside to filing," Hilliard said. "You don't lose any of your rights."
Generally, those filing claims will have to submit police reports, any computer data captured from the vehicle as part of an accident investigation, a vehicle identification number and other relevant evidence.
But people may have trouble finding the documentation they need to make a claim, said Clarence Ditlow, executive director of the Center for Auto Safety.
The majority of claims probably will involve older vehicles. In many cases, the vehicles are unlikely to be available for investigators to examine, Ditlow said.
jim.puzzanghera@latimes.com
jerry.hirsch@latimes.com
Puzzanghera reported from Washington and Hirsch from Los Angeles.
