Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

Why GM's recalls aren't denting sales - CBS News
To mix advertising metaphors, General Motors (GM) is proving to be the "Energizer Bunny" of multi-national corporations. It keeps on "going and going" despite what seems to be a never-ending barrage of negative publicity resulting from its failure to disclose a deadly ignition switch defect for more than a decade.
Though there has been much talk in the media and in bond rating agencies about the damage the scandal might cause the GM brand, it hasn't translated to much action, surprising many experts who had expected GM sales to fall as had occurred with Toyota a few years ago when the Japanese automaker's safety practices were subject to intense criticism in the media.
"You would have perhaps expected a temporary sales dip," writes Robert Haigh, director of communications at London-based brand consultancy Brand Finance, in an email. "My guess at an explanation for the lack of this (other than brand strength) is twofold. Firstly the improving U.S. economy means there is a cohort of people who have been delaying purchasing decisions but are now coming into the market, offsetting those turning away from GM. Secondly it has been said that large numbers of those with recalled vehicles are staying loyal to GM, purchasing new models and actually increasing GM sales."
In fact, the Detroit-based company recently said that retail sales in the
first half of the year	 posted their biggest gain since 2008. GM dealers delivered 267,461 vehicles in June, better than the 247,767 analysts expected. According to data from Autodata Corp., cited by
Bloomberg Businessweek,	 GM's U.S. market share was 18 percent in June, up from 16.9 percent in January before the recalls started.
"It seems that when someone is shopping for a new car or considering a new car they don't seem to take recall news into much account," said Bill Visnic, senior editor at Edmunds.com, in an interview. "Mostly they tend to pretty much shut it out."
Owners of Chevrolet Cobalts, one of the recalled models, are a case in point. Edmunds data shows that Cobalt owners' loyalty to GM and Chevy has grown in intensity. Between March and May, there were 21 percent more Cobalt trade-ins compared with 2013. A surveys done in May found that 49 percent of people trading in a Cobalt for a new car bought another GM vehicle, which was higher than the 47.5 percent rate measured in May 2013, before the recalls began. About 46 percent of people who traded in a Cobalt bought another Chevy, according to Edmunds.com.
This week GM announced recalls of 8.4 million vehicles, bringing its total to 28 million, almost double the 16 million units GM expects the industry to sell in the U.S. this year.
"GM's sales performance is even more impressive than it looks," said John Krafcik, president of vehicle research firm TrueCar. "It's pretty amazing."
The average GM vehicle sold for $32, 848 in June, above the industry average of $32,025. The automaker raised prices by 8.8 percent, while the industry saw a decline 0.8 percent. GM is also offering buyers fewer financial incentives than it did last year, spending $3,280 in June versus $3,724 in the year-ago period. That's lower than Ford and Chrysler.
GM has shown "a remarkable ability to make lemons into lemons," Krafcik said.
GM also announced this week that it would take a charge of as much as $1.2 billion, higher than the $700 million the company had previously expected. Victims have contacted attorney Kenneth Feinberg, who has been hired by GM to handle claims from victims of the defective ignition switches, even though the program doesn't officially begin until August, according to Bloomberg News.
Though crisis communications consultants faulted GM and CEO Mary Barra for failing to strike an appropriate tone with either the families of the victims or members of Congress, the automaker has improved its performance. One of the points that Barra continues to make is that the problems were part of GM"s past and that company has taken steps including firing employees to make sure that they won't happen again.
Wall Street also is rooting for GM. Shares of the automaker are now trading above the $37.59 level they were when the company's safety woes first became public. Most analysts recommend investors buy the stock.
(c) 2014 CBS Interactive Inc.. All Rights Reserved.
