Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

Timeline: GM's ignition-switch recall crisis | Reuters
Mon Jun 30, 2014 8:37pm EDT
General Motors Co is grappling with a crisis over its decade-long failure to recall cars equipped with faulty ignition switches. The flaw could cause engines to shut off, leading to a sudden loss of power steering and power brakes, and the failure of air bags to deploy in a crash. So far, GM has attributed at least 61 crashes and 16 deaths to switch-related malfunctions. It was only in February of this year that GM finally began recalling 2.6 million Chevrolet Cobalts, Saturn Ions and other older models equipped with the faulty switches.
Following is a timeline of recent events.
June 30, 2014 - GM recalls 8.23 million mostly older cars linked by the automaker to three deaths. The latest recalls swell the total number of vehicles recalled by GM this year to 29 million. The automaker also says it will increase by $500 million a second-quarter charge to cover the cost of the recalls. So far this year, the writedowns are expected to total $2.5 billion. It also announces details of a compensation fund that will provide at least $1 million to victims of crashes tied to defective switches in older compact cars.
June 18, 2014 - U.S. lawmakers accuse GM of a "disturbing pattern" of neglecting safety and reveal emails from 2005 in which a GM employee warned a "big recall" may be necessary over an ignition-switch problem that was only addressed this week.
June 16, 2014 - GM recalls 3 million more cars for ignition-switch issues, roughly doubling the number of GM vehicles with known switch problems. GM also raises a recall-related charge for the second quarter to $700 million from $400 million.
June 13, 2014 - GM recalls 511,528 Chevrolet Camaros for an ignition switch problem similar to the defect linked to at least 13 deaths in Chevrolet Cobalts and other models.
June 6, 2014 - GM announces four more recalls, unrelated to ignition issues.
June 5, 2014 - GM says it fired 15 people for misconduct and failure to act on the recall of the defective ignition switches for years after first gaining knowledge of the problem. GM also releases findings of an internal probe, blaming what the report described as incompetent lower-level employees and saying there was no cover-up.
May 21, 2014 - GM says it is recalling more than 284,000 older Chevrolet small cars in the United States and other markets because of a potential fire hazard, bringing U.S. recalls at the automaker this year to 29 and almost 13.8 million vehicles.
May 16, 2014 - GM is slapped with a $35 million fine by the U.S. Department of Transportation for its delayed response to the ignition-switch defect.
April 24, 2014 - GM says it is the subject of five different government probes related to its massive recalls.
April 11, 2014 - Documents released by a U.S. House committee show that GM engineers were aware of serious problems with ignition switches in small cars but rejected several opportunities to make fixes. Federal regulators as early as 2007 were concerned that GM was dragging its heels on safety measures as consumer complaints mounted, but top officials at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration never followed through on staffers' recommendations to open a broad investigation, according to the documents.
April 2, 2014 - GM Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra comes under withering attack at a U.S. Senate hearing where lawmakers accuse the company of "criminal" behavior and "a culture of cover-up."
April 1, 2014 - Barra tells a U.S. House panel she is "deeply sorry" for the company's failure to respond quickly.
March 18, 2014 - GM names Jeff Boyer to the new position of vehicle safety chief, responsible for product safety issues, including recalls.
Feb. 25, 2014 - GM more than doubles its ignition-switch recall, mostly in North America, to 1,620,665 vehicles.
Feb. 13, 2014 - GM says it is recalling 776,562 older-model Chevrolet Cobalt and Pontiac G5 compact cars in North America to correct a condition that may allow the engine and other components, including air bags, to be turned off unintentionally.
Jan. 15, 2014 - Barra, 52, takes over as chief executive, becoming the first female to lead a major automaker. The 33-year GM veteran previously headed, at different times, the automaker's manufacturing engineering, human resources and product development.

