Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

You wonder where GM 'switch' recall will end - Independent.ie
Joe Dillon
Published 02/07/2014|02:30
General Motors (GM) Chief Executive Mary Barra
STEADILY, every week or so, there is a massive recall by General Motors.
Because it hasn't affected vehicles in Europe/Ireland it largely passes us by. But this is a major crisis and you wonder where it will end.
It is over deadly ignition switches, which GM says have been linked to at least 16 deaths and 61 crashes. Yes, deaths and crashes.
US lawmakers and safety regulators expect those numbers to increase. The ignition switches can be turned off because of what the car-maker calls 'inadvertent key rotation'.
It is claimed that just nudging the key with your knee, for example, can lead to the engine being shut off and power being cut to the steering, brakes and air bags.
The figures are massive. Only Monday last, they recalled another 8.23 million cars - most of them older - that have been linked to three deaths.
That brings to 29 million - 29 million - the total number of vehicles GM has recalled this year. The latest fatalities happened in two separate high-speed crashes.
A report which was released this week on additional fatalities makes for incredibly chilling reading.
US House Energy and Commerce chairman, Fred Upton, says it "confirms our fears that GM's safety failures were much more widespread than initially reported".
A compensation fund has been set up to provide at least $1m (EU739,000) to victims of crashes linked to the defective switches in older, smaller cars.
The total fund for compensation is subsequently expected to run into billions of dollars.
Indo Motoring
