Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

GM sales increase in June despite expanding recall controversy (+video) - CSMonitor.com
Amid ongoing controversy and historic recall numbers, General Motors (GM) announced Tuesday that sales in June were up one percent compared to the same time last year. In the announcement, the company said it had the best June sales since 2007.
"June was the third very strong month in a row for GM, with every brand up on a selling-day adjusted basis," said Kurt McNeil, US vice president of sales operations at GM. "In fact, the first half of the year was our best retail sales performance since 2008, driven by an outstanding second quarter."
The good numbers come as recalls continue to pile on for GM. Through the end of June, the automaker has recalled almost 29 million cars in North America, more than the auto industry has recalled annually for the past nine years, according to the LA Times. A malfunctioning ignition switch problem has been linked to several accidents and at least 13 deaths. The Chevy Cruze, the company's second bestselling car, has also been the subject of two recalls, one for a faulty airbag and another regarding insulation on an engine heater power cord.
But the question remains: In the long run, will people continue to buy GM cars?
"This could be a case of the death-by-a-thousand-cuts dynamic," Anthony Johndrow, a managing partner of New York's Reputation Institute, a firm that focuses on corporate image-building, told NBC News. "You lose resilience when your reputation is injured, and the more hits you take, the more damage you suffer. Your reputation can bounce up, but it can bounce down even quicker."
Some experts disagree, suggesting that the increase in the number of sales for June means the controversy isn't dissuading consumers from buying GM cars.
"General Motors is resilient," said Michelle Krebs, a senior analyst at AutoTrader.com. Ms. Krebs added that she believed consumers could be ignoring the latest recalls because there have been so many recently. "Consumers understand that the GM of today is not the GM that made the recalled cars. They are making a different product."
Even if sales continue to increase, there is no doubt that the recalls, possible lawsuits, and settlements will cost GM a lot of money. The company is already projecting that the recalls could cost $1.2 billion for the current quarter, according to the Wall Street Journal. GM spent $1.3 billion to cover recall costs in the first quarter of the year.
The $2.5 billion the company is planning to pay for recall costs (so far) doesn't include the millions the company will spend to compensate those who were hurt or lost loved ones in accidents connected to recalled parts. GM will provide between $20,000 to a few million dollars to any pedestrian, passenger, driver, or occupant who can prove they were hurt in an accident involving cars GM has recalled through a compensation fund run by Kenneth Feinberg. The automaker will pay $1 million to the families of anyone killed in an accident, according to the Wall Street Journal. It isn't certain how much money the compensation program will cost, but Feinberg has said the compensation fund has no cap to the amount it will spend to compensate victims.
There could also be criminal charges brought against the company for allegedly failing to comply with laws requiring timely disclosure of vehicle defects. "The [Southern District of New York] and [The Department of Justice] are currently conducting a criminal investigation of GM which resembles the one they conducted of Toyota and ended in a $1 billion settlement," said Carl Tobia, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law. "It may be several years before the probe is completed as Toyota's took four."
Ms. Krebs said the lawsuits wouldn't have a big impact on GM because the charges will take a while to resolve. She said criminal charges didn't hurt Toyota in 2009, when it went through its own set of major recalls. By the time the criminal charges were settled in 2014, Toyota's sales had already bounced back. Referring to the amount of money GM will have to spend on the compensation fund and recalls, Krebs said, "Certainly there will be a hit to the bottom line but not one GM can't handle."
