Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer hired by General Motors Co. (GM) to arrange compensation for victims of cars with defective ignition switches, is already hearing from people even though claims won't be accepted until Aug. 1.
There have been some "heart-wrenching stories" including from people "who suffered horribly," Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt," airing this weekend. He said he's also been contacted by people whose cars aren't part of the recall.
The primary goal is to get money to legitimate victims, especially family members of people killed or people who have been permanently disabled in crashes, Feinberg said. It's not to punish GM. Feinberg announced the parameters of the compensation program June 30.
"At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is, did you get the money out fast and did people sign up," he said.
At least 13 deaths in crashes have been blamed on a flawed ignition switch, which can be inadvertently shut off when jarred, cutting power to the engine and deactivating air bags. GM is limiting payments to victims of the original 2.6 million cars recalled to those specifically tied to air bags that failed, Feinberg said.
Owners of the 8.4 million older models recalled for "unintended key rotation" this week, including the 1997-2005 Chevrolet Malibu and the 2003-2014 Cadillac CTS, won't be eligible for compensation under the program, Feinberg said.
It's up to GM whether to expand the compensation program, he said.
Barra's Cooperation
Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra has been cooperative in getting the program established, Feinberg said. GM has pushed back on some requests, later agreeing after having them explained, he said. Feinberg says the Detroit-based automaker has agreed to abide by his decisions on individual claims, with no aggregate cap and granting him total independence.
"She means what she says," Feinberg said of Barra.
Feinberg has administered funds to compensate victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Boston Marathon bombing and the BP Plc (BP/) oil spill.
People have until Dec. 31 to make claims related to the GM recall. Victims of accidents before GM's 2009 bankruptcy are eligible, even if they already have been compensated, he said. Each eligible claim will be paid in 90 to 180 days from when Feinberg deems it substantially complete, he said.
Feinberg's Pay
Feinberg said he's not inclined to extend the Dec. 31 deadline, as U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has suggested to give vehicle owners more time to gather evidence. Based on experience with other funds, people "will wait and wait," Feinberg said.
"It's better to have a deadline and force people to gather together their documentation and get the claim in," Feinberg said.
Feinberg said he's being paid by GM after having worked on other compensation funds pro bono. He declined to answer how much he's being paid.
"It's up to GM," he said. "You ask GM."
GM isn't disclosing how much Feinberg is being paid, a spokesman, Greg Martin, said in an e-mail.
Feinberg has sole discretion about who is compensated, how much they're being paid, and there's no cap on the total amount that goes out, Martin said.
Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Chicago, estimated in March that GM might spend $3 billion in damages for faulty Chevrolet Cobalts and Saturn Ions. Blumenthal has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion.
GM shares and sales have held up so far even with the publicity surrounding the recalls. GM in May had its best month of U.S. auto sales since August 2008, rising 13 percent to 284,694 vehicles. In J.D. Power & Associates' closely watched new-car quality survey, GM had more best-in-category models than any other automaker.
To contact the reporter on this story: Jeff Plungis in Washington at jplungis@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Romaine Bostick at rbostick@bloomberg.net Mark Silva

What GM could gain from the recall of 29 million cars - Outside the Box - MarketWatch
By Tim Mullaney
Mary Barra, CEO of General Motors
Riddle me this: General Motors, once the world's largest car company, has beaten nearly all of its major rivals' stock performance in the past year despite recalling 29 million cars for potential quality or safety problems.
GM 0.00% has nipped Ford +0.58% and Hyundai, whipped Toyota -0.12% pretty good. Honda's -0.11% not keeping up. How is that possible? And can it last?
GM is taking a beating in the papers, but not in the markets. The shares are up about 12% since this time last year. Sure, it's less than the S&P 500's 22% gain, but the carmaker's stock is actually up since the major recalls began Feb. 25.
The news is at least as good on Main Street: Citigroup automotive analyst Itay Michaeli says GM's U.S. market share is holding at what he called the mid-to-high 17% range, down (maybe) from 17.9% in 2013, but good enough to be "encouraging." Even better: As the economy improves, demand is shifting toward more expensive, higher-margin trucks that happen to be in GM's market-share and profitability wheelhouse.
Win your financial freedom
Now is a good time to become financially free. Here's how some Americans are becoming more financially independent. WSJ Wealth Adviser's Veronica Dagher reports.
In fact, recent trends suggest the average vehicle GM is selling costs $3,000 more than at this time last year, Michaeli says. "GM's strong pricing is being driven by pickup trucks, SUVs and luxury segments -- most of which are seeing double-digit gains."
On Tuesday, the good news kept coming. GM's June unit sales rose 1%, rather than the 3.7% drop Kelley Blue Book had forecast, the Wall Street Journal reported. That news came one day after another 8.4 million recalls, most of them for ignition defects in older models that could cause the cars' engines to shut off while in motion.
If you're frothing at the mouth for GM to get some just desserts -- after all, at least 13 people have died and investigators are still looking for more -- you really won't want to read what comes next.
GM may actually gain market share because of the recalls, even making money on the deal, Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas argues. In a report issued May 15, he said GM could make back its spending on recalls (a figure that has grown since) by selling cars to less than 1% of those owners affected by recalls. No one is arguing that the crisis is creating long-term value, Jonas said -- just that the combination of two years' worth of customers having a reason to visit Chevy dealers, combined with unadvertised new-purchase incentives for owners affected by the recalls, could generate more short-term sales than people realize.
Great? Or just oy vey?
Truth is, it could be either, or both.
A crisis is a terrible thing to waste. And if GM seizes this one -- as it more or less seized its 2009 bankruptcy -- to focus on quality and safety in a way that convinces people they are serious, there's no reason it can't be a positive. Its chart will never resemble what has happened to Johnson & Johnson -0.42% after its brilliant handling of the 1982 Tylenol-poisoning crisis -- car-making is a much more mature market than drugs or medical devices -- but its market position doesn't have to be hurt and could even gain a bit.
After all, Johnson & Johnson's 23% share drop amid the Tylenol crisis was bigger than GM's drop from its 52-week high in December of $41.85. In fact, GM is actually higher than it was before the Feb. 25 announcement of its first million-car recall, including the Chevy Cobalts at the height of its crisis. On top of that, Toyota shares shrugged off its 2009-10 recall crisis, too -- and quickly.
GM is off to a reasonable start, many analysts think. Barclays' Brian Johnson gives GM Chief Executive Mary Barra high marks for firing eight executives and elevating the company's safety function by promoting Jeff Boyer to vice president of global vehicle safety, which he says elevated and integrated GM's safety processes under a single leader.
Barra seems to be more focused on ethics and the greater good, and less focused on the rear-end covering that for years marked GM's reaction to safety problems. The butt-covering on the ignition problems was especially inexcusable, since Michaeli says the recalls so far have cost just $78 per car, and prosecutors may well determine it was criminal.
