What GM could gain from the recall of 29 million cars - Outside the Box - MarketWatch
By Tim Mullaney
Mary Barra, CEO of General Motors
Riddle me this: General Motors, once the world's largest car company, has beaten nearly all of its major rivals' stock performance in the past year despite recalling 29 million cars for potential quality or safety problems.
GM 0.00% has nipped Ford +0.58% and Hyundai, whipped Toyota -0.12% pretty good. Honda's -0.11% not keeping up. How is that possible? And can it last?
GM is taking a beating in the papers, but not in the markets. The shares are up about 12% since this time last year. Sure, it's less than the S&P 500's 22% gain, but the carmaker's stock is actually up since the major recalls began Feb. 25.
The news is at least as good on Main Street: Citigroup automotive analyst Itay Michaeli says GM's U.S. market share is holding at what he called the mid-to-high 17% range, down (maybe) from 17.9% in 2013, but good enough to be "encouraging." Even better: As the economy improves, demand is shifting toward more expensive, higher-margin trucks that happen to be in GM's market-share and profitability wheelhouse.
Win your financial freedom
Now is a good time to become financially free. Here's how some Americans are becoming more financially independent. WSJ Wealth Adviser's Veronica Dagher reports.
In fact, recent trends suggest the average vehicle GM is selling costs $3,000 more than at this time last year, Michaeli says. "GM's strong pricing is being driven by pickup trucks, SUVs and luxury segments -- most of which are seeing double-digit gains."
On Tuesday, the good news kept coming. GM's June unit sales rose 1%, rather than the 3.7% drop Kelley Blue Book had forecast, the Wall Street Journal reported. That news came one day after another 8.4 million recalls, most of them for ignition defects in older models that could cause the cars' engines to shut off while in motion.
If you're frothing at the mouth for GM to get some just desserts -- after all, at least 13 people have died and investigators are still looking for more -- you really won't want to read what comes next.
GM may actually gain market share because of the recalls, even making money on the deal, Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas argues. In a report issued May 15, he said GM could make back its spending on recalls (a figure that has grown since) by selling cars to less than 1% of those owners affected by recalls. No one is arguing that the crisis is creating long-term value, Jonas said -- just that the combination of two years' worth of customers having a reason to visit Chevy dealers, combined with unadvertised new-purchase incentives for owners affected by the recalls, could generate more short-term sales than people realize.
Great? Or just oy vey?
Truth is, it could be either, or both.
A crisis is a terrible thing to waste. And if GM seizes this one -- as it more or less seized its 2009 bankruptcy -- to focus on quality and safety in a way that convinces people they are serious, there's no reason it can't be a positive. Its chart will never resemble what has happened to Johnson & Johnson -0.42% after its brilliant handling of the 1982 Tylenol-poisoning crisis -- car-making is a much more mature market than drugs or medical devices -- but its market position doesn't have to be hurt and could even gain a bit.
After all, Johnson & Johnson's 23% share drop amid the Tylenol crisis was bigger than GM's drop from its 52-week high in December of $41.85. In fact, GM is actually higher than it was before the Feb. 25 announcement of its first million-car recall, including the Chevy Cobalts at the height of its crisis. On top of that, Toyota shares shrugged off its 2009-10 recall crisis, too -- and quickly.
GM is off to a reasonable start, many analysts think. Barclays' Brian Johnson gives GM Chief Executive Mary Barra high marks for firing eight executives and elevating the company's safety function by promoting Jeff Boyer to vice president of global vehicle safety, which he says elevated and integrated GM's safety processes under a single leader.
Barra seems to be more focused on ethics and the greater good, and less focused on the rear-end covering that for years marked GM's reaction to safety problems. The butt-covering on the ignition problems was especially inexcusable, since Michaeli says the recalls so far have cost just $78 per car, and prosecutors may well determine it was criminal.
