No U-turn in taking wrestling from death list to Olympic shortlist, says IOC
College Sports
June 1, 2013
By: Mark Palmer
Examiner.com

Did the International Olympic Committee make a U-turn in putting wrestling -- voted off the list of Olympic core sports in February -- on the shortlist for the 2020 Olympics?

Did the International Olympic Committee reverse itself - and make a U-turn - by putting wrestling on its shortlist of three sports for consideration for the 2020 Olympics less than four months after eliminating the sport from its roster of core sports?



On Friday, IOC president Jacques Rogge said no.
 
"I don't see any shortcomings in the system, I don't see any errors in the system," said Rogge at the end of a three-day meeting of the IOC Executive Board in St Petersburg, Russia, which, on Wednesday, had voted wrestling, along with squash and a combined baseball-softball bid, to a shortlist of sports which will be considered by the entire IOC in Buenos Aires, Argentina in September.
 
"We do not want change for change," Rogge added. "The purpose is to have the best possible Olympic Games."
 
In seeking to make the Olympics more attractive to younger-generation fans and sponsors - while also maintaining a limit of 28 sports and approximately 10,500 participating athletes that has held fast since the 2000 Sydney Olympics -- the IOC invited some newer sports such as inline skating, sport climbing, and wakeboarding to put forth bids for one open spot on the 2020 and 2024 Olympic sports roster. These sports, along with karate and the Chinese martial art of wushu, and the three on the eventual shortlist, made 30-minute presentations to the IOC Executive Board on Wednesday.
 
After the IOC announced that wrestling - a sport that traces its roots back to 708 B.C., and was one of the original sports of the first Modern Olympics in 1896 - had survived the first round of cuts on Wednesday, some questioned the reversal of decision. Or, to put the issue in starker terms, why would the IOC eliminate a sport in February, only to put it back into consideration in May?
 
It has been argued that the IOC saw the error in its ways in eliminating wrestling. Or, perhaps the IOC, stung by the overwhelmingly negative reaction to the decision worldwide - including outright mockery, and suggestions of shady politics -- sought out a face-saving way out of its decision from earlier this year. 

Rogge addressed the matter on Friday. He brushed aside suggestions that, if the entire IOC membership were to vote in September to return wrestling to the Olympics, it would have erased the entire purpose of eliminating the sport in the first place back in February.
 
"If there is the consideration that one sport is better than the other it should be chosen even if it is an existing sport," said the IOC president, who has served in that position for twelve years, and whose term is to expire this fall. "Do not bring a new one in for the sake of a new one."
 
Rogge cited rule changes and other reforms implemented by FILA, the international wrestling federation, just two weeks ago.
 
"If you look at the reaction of the federation to their admitted shortcomings, the international federation drastically changed its own governance, including (installing) women in the executive board -- which was a criticism of the report from the IOC -- changing the format of the competition, changing the presentation," said Rogge.
 
A week after FILA revealed new rules to make the sport more fan-friendly and action-oriented - along with changes to open new opportunities for women on the mat and in governing the organization -- Rogge said, "I think they had the good answer and the good reaction. They obviously were taken a bit by a surprise by the fact they could leave the core group."
 
"The federation definitely understood the reasons why they were ousted, and they reacted what they normally should have done."
 
Rogge admitted that the IOC would have been criticized had it axed a sport other than wrestling from the Olympic roster.
 
"Had we decided to eliminate another sport from the core sports, such as modern pentathlon, we would have been criticized for having betrayed the legacy of Pierre de Coubertin, who invented the sport." (de Coubertin is considered to be the father of the Modern Olympics.)
 
"Had we decided to eliminate taekwondo, we would have been accused of betraying the spirit of Asian sport, I mean we would have had criticism for any sport that would have been eliminated."
 
The man who may take Rogge's job this fall also weighed in.
 
IOC Vice-President Thomas Bach, considered to be the frontrunner among six candidates to succeed Rogge as president this fall, said, "Wrestling gave a very good presentation. You could clearly see they got the message. They took the right decisions. Sometimes for great reforms you need pressure."
 
Quotes compiled from the Chicago Tribune and Yahoo! Sports.



Wrestling coaches keeping Olympic dreams alive


On short list for 2020 games; decision in September

June 01, 2013|By Luke Hagen, The Daily Republic


The wrestling community has played a big role in keeping the sport's Olympic dreams alive, according to South Dakota high school and college wrestling coaches.

 This week, the International Olympic Committee said wrestling was one of three selected to compete for the last provisional spot for the 2020 and 2024 Olympic games.

 Wrestling, squash and a combined bid from baseball/softball will be presented for a final vote by the IOC general assembly during its September meeting. Only one of the three sports makes the final cut.

 "I think this was some very exciting news that we got to the next step," Bon Homme wrestling coach Mark Stoebner said, "but we can't sit back and relax now. We have to keep pushing and keep making our voices heard."


 In February, the IOC voted to eliminate wrestling from the Summer Games, dropping the sport that has been a part of every modern Olympics since the inaugural 1896 Athens Games except one.

 Stoebner said when the IOC's initial decision was reported, it sent a shockwave across the sport's hard-core fanbase. He said wrestlers on his team have kept a close eye on the situation.

 "I feel positive that we're going to get it through, but we can't relax now," Stoebner said.

 Dakota Wesleyan University wrestling coach Matt Sedivy said the IOC's decision to drop the sport from the Olympics was the talk of the tournament when seven of his wrestlers qualified for nationals this year. He saw T-shirts and signs showing support of Olympic wrestling.

 In addition to the support at tournaments, websites have been created, petitions started and political figures have voiced their opinions to keep the sport.

 Sedivy said he expects the sport to beat out squash and baseball/softball to earn the final spot in the 2020 games.

 "People in general are making their voice heard that wrestling should be a part of Olympics," Sedivy said. "It's a hot topic, and it's tough for wrestlers to talk about it because it makes us so mad."

 South Dakota has had at least six Olympic wrestlers in its history.

 Lyman wrestling coach Chad Johnson listed 1984 gold medalist Randy Lewis, a Rapid City native, and 2000 bronze medalist Lincoln McIlravy of Philip, as competitors that today's high school wrestlers admire. Other South Dakota Olympic wrestlers are Jim Scherr, a 1988 competitor from Mobridge; Bill Scherr, a 1988 bronze medalist from Mobridge; Dennis Koslowski, a 1988 bronze medalist and 1992 silver medalist from Doland; and Duane Koslowski, a 1988 Olympian from Doland. The Scherrs are brothers, as are the Koslowskis.

 "The highest wrestling goes is to the Olympics and if you don't have that, there aren't as high of goals for these kids to set," Johnson said. "I just can't imagine wrestling not in the Olympics. It would be a travesty and hard to imagine."
