No U-turn in taking wrestling from death list to Olympic shortlist, says IOC
College Sports
June 1, 2013
By: Mark Palmer
Examiner.com

Did the International Olympic Committee make a U-turn in putting wrestling -- voted off the list of Olympic core sports in February -- on the shortlist for the 2020 Olympics?

Did the International Olympic Committee reverse itself - and make a U-turn - by putting wrestling on its shortlist of three sports for consideration for the 2020 Olympics less than four months after eliminating the sport from its roster of core sports?



On Friday, IOC president Jacques Rogge said no.
 
"I don't see any shortcomings in the system, I don't see any errors in the system," said Rogge at the end of a three-day meeting of the IOC Executive Board in St Petersburg, Russia, which, on Wednesday, had voted wrestling, along with squash and a combined baseball-softball bid, to a shortlist of sports which will be considered by the entire IOC in Buenos Aires, Argentina in September.
 
"We do not want change for change," Rogge added. "The purpose is to have the best possible Olympic Games."
 
In seeking to make the Olympics more attractive to younger-generation fans and sponsors - while also maintaining a limit of 28 sports and approximately 10,500 participating athletes that has held fast since the 2000 Sydney Olympics -- the IOC invited some newer sports such as inline skating, sport climbing, and wakeboarding to put forth bids for one open spot on the 2020 and 2024 Olympic sports roster. These sports, along with karate and the Chinese martial art of wushu, and the three on the eventual shortlist, made 30-minute presentations to the IOC Executive Board on Wednesday.
 
After the IOC announced that wrestling - a sport that traces its roots back to 708 B.C., and was one of the original sports of the first Modern Olympics in 1896 - had survived the first round of cuts on Wednesday, some questioned the reversal of decision. Or, to put the issue in starker terms, why would the IOC eliminate a sport in February, only to put it back into consideration in May?
 
It has been argued that the IOC saw the error in its ways in eliminating wrestling. Or, perhaps the IOC, stung by the overwhelmingly negative reaction to the decision worldwide - including outright mockery, and suggestions of shady politics -- sought out a face-saving way out of its decision from earlier this year. 

Rogge addressed the matter on Friday. He brushed aside suggestions that, if the entire IOC membership were to vote in September to return wrestling to the Olympics, it would have erased the entire purpose of eliminating the sport in the first place back in February.
 
"If there is the consideration that one sport is better than the other it should be chosen even if it is an existing sport," said the IOC president, who has served in that position for twelve years, and whose term is to expire this fall. "Do not bring a new one in for the sake of a new one."
 
Rogge cited rule changes and other reforms implemented by FILA, the international wrestling federation, just two weeks ago.
 
"If you look at the reaction of the federation to their admitted shortcomings, the international federation drastically changed its own governance, including (installing) women in the executive board -- which was a criticism of the report from the IOC -- changing the format of the competition, changing the presentation," said Rogge.
 
A week after FILA revealed new rules to make the sport more fan-friendly and action-oriented - along with changes to open new opportunities for women on the mat and in governing the organization -- Rogge said, "I think they had the good answer and the good reaction. They obviously were taken a bit by a surprise by the fact they could leave the core group."
 
"The federation definitely understood the reasons why they were ousted, and they reacted what they normally should have done."
 
Rogge admitted that the IOC would have been criticized had it axed a sport other than wrestling from the Olympic roster.
 
"Had we decided to eliminate another sport from the core sports, such as modern pentathlon, we would have been criticized for having betrayed the legacy of Pierre de Coubertin, who invented the sport." (de Coubertin is considered to be the father of the Modern Olympics.)
 
"Had we decided to eliminate taekwondo, we would have been accused of betraying the spirit of Asian sport, I mean we would have had criticism for any sport that would have been eliminated."
 
The man who may take Rogge's job this fall also weighed in.
 
IOC Vice-President Thomas Bach, considered to be the frontrunner among six candidates to succeed Rogge as president this fall, said, "Wrestling gave a very good presentation. You could clearly see they got the message. They took the right decisions. Sometimes for great reforms you need pressure."
 
Quotes compiled from the Chicago Tribune and Yahoo! Sports.





Wrestling's Olympic quest faces one final hurdle ahead
 

The Express Times - LehighValleyLive.com
By Brad Wilson | The Express-Times 
on May 31, 2013 at 5:35 AM, updated May 31, 2013 at 8:58 AM

 

Former Lehigh wrestling coach Greg StrobelPhotos courtesy of Lehigh University 
Greg Strobel welcomed the news that wrestling had survived Wednesday's International Olympic Committee executive committee cut-down vote Wednesday with one word:
 "Yee-hah!"
 
The reaction of the former Lehigh University wrestling coach and current USA Wrestling second vice president matched the moment as wrestling, along with baseball/softball and squash,  kept its chances to be a 'core' Olympic sport alive.
 
If wrestling had lost the vote, it would have had no chance to be in the 2020 Olympics and might never have gotten back again.
 
"I was somewhat surprised," Strobel said. "Going into the vote, I thought we had a 50/50 chance. This was the first big hurdle."
 
But as USA Wrestling communications director Gary Abbott said Thursday, "We have a lot more work to do."
 
The world wrestling community came together, made changes to the sport and to its leadership, and convinced a committee it deserved a spot in the Olympic Games.
 
Now it must rally again to convince the full IOC assembly, which will vote Sept. 8 in Buenos Aires.
 
Strobel exudes confidence.
 
"This was the big hurdle," he said. "On this committee there weren't many representatives from wrestling countries. In the full IOC assembly there are a lot more wrestling countries. I think we have an 80-20 chance there."
 
Abbott is more cautious.
 
"We're not going to take anything for granted," he said. "We're going to fight like we're the underdogs."
 
On the face of it wrestling should have the edge over its competitors. Baseball/softball have limited geographic appeal, and squash battles obscurity and a somewhat unfair tag of elitism. Wrestling is comparatively ubiquitous geographically and has a history in the sport that cannot be matched.
 
"We were in the very first Olympics in ancient times, we were in the first modern Olympics (in 1896) and we've been in all the Olympics but one (1900) since," Abbott said. "Everyone knows the story of wrestling. Now we have to convince people it belongs in the future."
 
The changes wrestling made since its Olympic status came under threat have been made with increasing its appeal with the future in mind. The sport dumped the ineffective leader of FILA, its international governing body. It increased women's opportunities across the board. It made its freestyle rules simpler for fans to understand (even hardcore mat heads, much less the broader public, could struggle with Olympic rules) and better for the wrestlers as well.
 
"Now you have to score points to win," Strobel said. "Before you could take no risk and have a 50/50 shot. Now there's a reason to score a lot of points."
 
More points means, everyone involved in wrestling hopes, more excitement and more fans. 

This is the general point that Easton and East Stroudsburg legend Jack Cuvo has been trying to make for years: add excitement to the sport. 

More fans and new fans would really. As a longtime District 11 official said a couple of months ago, "Everybody likes football and everybody likes basketball but only wrestling people like wrestling."
 
Wrestling people really like wrestling, but that kind of single-minded passion can induce myopia and a certain overestimation about the sport's place in the world. It may have been that attitude displayed on a larger stage that caused the passivity and overconfidence that led to the first vote to exclude wrestling.
 
That's precisely what Abbott and USA Wrestling want to avoid going forward.
 
"John Bardis (a former Olympic Greco-Roman Team Leader and a member of the Committee to Preserve Olympic Wrestling) said that every person involved in wrestling needs to have their fingerprints on this decision," Abbott said. "We need to keep the buzz going. We need to give the IOC a vision of the future of wrestling."
 
Strobel said he thought the international cooperation of the U.S., Russia and Iran helped the cause, as did the advocacy of powerful people such as Russian President Vladimir Putin.
But you don't have to be a world power to help. Abbott said there's a role for everyone.
 
"The general public doesn't have a vote, but there are many things they can do to keep this a hot topic," he said. "Go watch our webcasts like the women's international matches (Battle of the Falls) Friday; show up for our events, follow us on Facebook, continue to be active. People can donate to our efforts. We raised over $1 million for this effort, we may need $2 million for the (September) vote. People can go online and vote for wrestling in world-wide polls about which sport to keep. (In a recent poll) we got 135,000 people to vote for us and we won. These are the ways people in the Lehigh Valley can help us."
 
Stan Dziedzic, an Allen graduate and past president of USA Wrestling, told a press conference that wrestling had won a semifinal, but just a semifinal, and faced a more intense match ahead.
 
It's one that every supporter of the sport anywhere in the world is hoping results in a pin for wrestling.
 
