River Hill wrestling overpowers Oakdale, 39-28.

Clarksville, MD- 

River Hill's Logan Kirby doesn't put much weight on scouting when it comes to wrestling.

The Harvard bound senior has wrestled at 195, 220 and 285 pounds this year, so preparing for a specific opponent amounts to wasted energy.

"We wrestle where we're told to wrestle Åc I'm just ready to get prepared for Glenelg on Tuesday when it's showtime," said Kirby, a returning state finalist. "It's fun because you get to wrestle different styles of wrestlers from the real big strong guys to the smaller quicker guys. You're not quite sure what to prepare for but you just go out there and have fun and wrestle."

So against visiting Oakdale on Thursday evening, Kirby just prepared for a tough match. He ended up pinning Oakdale's Tyler Brown (195) with 45 seconds remaining in the third period, leading the Hawks to a 39-28 win.

Sebastian Ames (170), Tyler Smith (285) and Michael Beck (120) also pinned for the Hawks (22-5), while Nic Przybocki (145) and Malik Boyd (152) got the falls for Oakdale (6-3).

"Everybody in Frederick County puts out a good program, the whole county, top to bottom. There's never an easy match," said River Hill coach Brandon Lauer. "A lot of them have experience, they've got a good feeder system up there, so you're going to wrestle guys that know how to wrestle."

Last year against Oakdale, Logan Kirby defeated eventual state champion Ryan Simonica, 5-4.

"I just expected another good kid, because you know that's what you're gonna get from them," Kirby said. "Good coaches breed good wrestlers, and that's what you get."

The Hawks will now prepare to visit Glenelg on Tuesday. The two teams are the last undefeated programs in Howard County this season, and have combined to win the last seven county dual meet titles.

"It's two of the top programs year in and year out going at it. It's going to be an exciting dual meet, it's going to be close," Lauer said. "It's going to be nip and tuck and we're excited for the opportunity to compete against them."

River Hill senior Cory Daniel (220), the University of North Carolina bound defending state champion, is the Hawks' last undefeated wrestler. His younger brother, freshman Brady Daniel (160), has been a strong addition on the mat this season, boasting an 18-6 record after his 8-2 win Tuesday night.

"He's doing great. He's been working extremely hard. He definitely has no ceiling. The possibilities are endless for him. It's just a matter of the commitment he puts in and what he does training wise off season," Lauer said. "He has a lot of talent for a ninth grader, especially at 160...He knows he has to earn everything in high school wrestling. Everything that happened before high school doesn't matter and he's got to prove himself and establish himself. That's his motivation."

Logan Kirby's younger brother, defending county champion Brian Kirby (195), has been limited this season with a lingering sprained ankle from football season.

"We're seeing how long that's going to last. We're taking it day by day," Lauer said. "We've been resting him, keeping him off of it, on the crutches and in the boot so he can heal up."

The Hawks also have five sophomores - Matt Shealy (106, 17-7), Cole Mihalik (113, 4-5), Ryan Erskine (132, 15-10), Sean Guthier (138, 19-3) and Jack Connoly (145, 5-17) - who have combined for 60 wins.

"They're all catching up now, ready to wrestle the postseason," Logan Kirby said. "If everyone does their job, we can't lose" against Glenelg on Tuesday.

