Protesting Egypt-s Al Jazeera Verdict : The New Yorker

The seductive idea of steady human progress toward democracy has presented itself, at least to Americans, repeatedly in the Middle East during the past decade, almost always to be dashed. Three years ago, in Egypt, it was possible to believe that the fall of Hosni Mubarak was a step along the democratic path. What democracy looks like now in Egypt was last month-s Presidential election, in which Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who took power in a military coup, got ninety-seven per cent of the vote.

Freedom of the press has even more of the air of inevitability about it--how can anyone stand in the way of the Internet, of information? But, absent democracy and the basic suite of liberties and legal protections that goes along with it, press freedom is impossible to maintain. In Egypt this week, three Al Jazeera journalists, Baher Mohammad, Peter Greste, and Mohamad Fadel Fahmy, along with twenty other people whom the government deemed too sympathetic to the Muslim Brotherhood, were sentenced to long prison terms--seven years for Fahmy, a Canadian citizen, and for Greste, an Australian, and ten for Mohammad. (Three other foreign journalists were in a group that was tried and convicted in absentia; they are unlikely to report back to Egypt to serve their terms.) Press-freedom advocates and news organizations have been eloquent in protesting the Al Jazeera journalists- prosecution, but it-s important to keep their co-defendants in mind: their presence in the dock demonstrates how deeply press freedom is nested inside political freedom.

Even though political freedom is a necessary precondition of press freedom, it isn-t sufficient. Journalism costs money. Broadcast journalism is especially expensive, and it almost necessarily lives in some relationship with government, because broadcasters need access to public goods like the airwaves and transmission lines. The idea that a free press can live in a libertarian microclimate is a fantasy, appealing to journalists but not very realistic. The press needs more from government than just to be left alone. It needs a government that affirmatively protects a list of freedoms on which press freedom is only one item; it is inevitably enmeshed in other government systems that can operate well or badly.

Al Jazeera is owned by the government of Qatar. It-s hard for most American journalists to make themselves completely comfortable with this. It feels as if the protests against the events in Egypt this week came more loudly from Britain, which has a long tradition of government-owned broadcasting, than from the United States, and perhaps that-s why. It-s also the case that the current governments of Qatar and Egypt are at odds, and that the now suppressed Muslim Brotherhood and Qatar are friends. But the way to think about Al Jazeera is in comparison to the realistic alternatives. You may not see tough, independent investigative reporting about Qatar on Al Jazeera. You may see a general political perspective that, in representing the view from the Arab world, seems biased to many Americans. Still, in its nearly two decades on the air, Al Jazeera has established itself as far more than a crude state-media outlet. Spend a few minutes comparing it to Vladimir Putin-s RT and you will see the difference. Al Jazeera is now one of the largest news organizations in the world. It hires real journalists and does real reporting, and, when that happens, what viewers see cannot be entirely assonant with the wishes of its owners. Practically, although individual bloggers are more courageous, the better state-owned broadcasters represent the most powerful and pervasive movement toward press freedom in the Arab world. They ought to be encouraged, and encouraged to embody journalism as much as possible and political constraint as little as possible.

And the Egyptian government-s willingness to put Al Jazeera employees on trial, on such flimsy charges as being in possession of a spent bullet, is a brassy gesture of contempt for respectable opinion and regional media power, which the government surely feels toward all news organizations.

Everyone who cares about freedom should protest the verdicts in Egypt. Sisi has already turned down a request from President Obama, delivered in person by John Kerry, that he consider pardoning the journalists. Obloquy now seems to be a stronger weapon than negotiation. In the longer run, with years of American efforts to promote democracy in the Middle East in a shambles, press freedom in the region isn-t likely to move forward simply on the strength of its moral claim. And perhaps the press can help enable democracy, even if its supporting institutions aren-t democracies themselves. We can only hope that creating a mass audience for information and opinion will eventually loosen the grip of autocracy.
Photograph: Khaled Desouki-AFP-Getty.

BBC staff and colleagues from other news organisations take part in a one-minute silent protest outside New Broadcasting House against the seven-year jail terms given to three al-Jazeera journalists in Egypt.
Rob Stothard / GETTY
It was a kangaroo court of such flagrant absurdity that you half-expected the prosecutor to submit an actual kangaroo as Exhibit A. He didn't, but he did the next best thing: he submitted an Australian pop music video. And a BBC podcast. And a catalogue of other items so farcically immaterial to the trial of three journalists that even the most imaginative, disturbed or drunk-off-his-face judge couldn't have sincerely believed them to be relevant.
But sincerity, sanity and sobriety be damned! The judge sentenced the journalists to seven years in prison for committing the grave crime of journalism.
Now Egypt stands accused of making a mockery of the rule of law and media freedoms. But that accusation makes a mockery of the phrase "making a mockery." Egypt isn't just tossing around a few snide remarks about fundamental rights; Egypt is doubling over in hysterics at the very idea of fundamental rights while laugh-screaming "Hahahaha! Fair trials are stupid and you're all stupid for believing in them and freedom of expression is also the dumbest thing ever, GET IT?!" If rights are a joke, then Egypt is the comedian who shrieks a slew of profanity-laced insults into the microphone at his audience before vomiting all over the stage.
According to Freedom House, global press freedoms are at the lowest level in a decade. Egypt doesn't have copyright on the punchline that comes at the expense of journalists: democracies and dictatorships are making the same joke, just with different setups. The laughter is drowning out the media.
Related
Obviously fans of physical comedy will want to check out authoritarian regimes, the kings of slapstick. (Also the kings of everything else, like the Internet and your thoughts). Earlier this year, Turkey pulled a gag where police pointed a water cannon directly at a reporter covering a protest. The stream propelled her into the air like a rag doll. Classic! Seems that firing rubber bullets at people and dousing them with tear gas was getting tired.
China is more into gallows humour about journalists. As in, Chinese officials have killed journalists who were investigating them, and they find the notion of journalistic freedom humorous.
But Western democracies usually consider authoritarian jokes too on the nose. The snobs among us prefer British comedy: if you're someone who brags about only watching the original Office, first, stop it; second, you must have loved that bit where under a terrorism act, British police detained the partner of journalist Glenn Greenwald, who broke the global surveillance story. They didn't do it to intimidate Greenwald, officials claimed with impeccably straight faces; they did it because the journalist's "design is to influence government" so "lives were endangered," the Home Office deadpanned.
But if Britain's government is a comedic celebrity, Canada's is an under-appreciated comedic genius. Harper's government has held media events and not allowed reporters to attend. It's announced caucus meetings after the meetings began. And immigration minister Chris Alexander recently gave a brilliant performance featuring him hanging up on a journalist who asked why he wouldn't answer how many Syrian refugees are in Canada.
"I have to go to Question Period," Alexander quipped before hanging up the phone. Somebody give this guy a Gemini; just don't try to interview him about it after the awards ceremony.
These clowns are hilarious, right? Sure, sometimes it's hard to see the humour in journalists being systematically obstructed from investigating whether protesters are being attacked in Egypt or citizens are being spied on everywhere or the public's interest is otherwise being violated egregiously. But holding governments to account is becoming a goddamned joke, and it's so funny it's killing us.
Shannon Gormley is a Canadian journalist based in Istanbul.
