Protesting Egypt-s Al Jazeera Verdict : The New Yorker

The seductive idea of steady human progress toward democracy has presented itself, at least to Americans, repeatedly in the Middle East during the past decade, almost always to be dashed. Three years ago, in Egypt, it was possible to believe that the fall of Hosni Mubarak was a step along the democratic path. What democracy looks like now in Egypt was last month-s Presidential election, in which Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who took power in a military coup, got ninety-seven per cent of the vote.

Freedom of the press has even more of the air of inevitability about it--how can anyone stand in the way of the Internet, of information? But, absent democracy and the basic suite of liberties and legal protections that goes along with it, press freedom is impossible to maintain. In Egypt this week, three Al Jazeera journalists, Baher Mohammad, Peter Greste, and Mohamad Fadel Fahmy, along with twenty other people whom the government deemed too sympathetic to the Muslim Brotherhood, were sentenced to long prison terms--seven years for Fahmy, a Canadian citizen, and for Greste, an Australian, and ten for Mohammad. (Three other foreign journalists were in a group that was tried and convicted in absentia; they are unlikely to report back to Egypt to serve their terms.) Press-freedom advocates and news organizations have been eloquent in protesting the Al Jazeera journalists- prosecution, but it-s important to keep their co-defendants in mind: their presence in the dock demonstrates how deeply press freedom is nested inside political freedom.

Even though political freedom is a necessary precondition of press freedom, it isn-t sufficient. Journalism costs money. Broadcast journalism is especially expensive, and it almost necessarily lives in some relationship with government, because broadcasters need access to public goods like the airwaves and transmission lines. The idea that a free press can live in a libertarian microclimate is a fantasy, appealing to journalists but not very realistic. The press needs more from government than just to be left alone. It needs a government that affirmatively protects a list of freedoms on which press freedom is only one item; it is inevitably enmeshed in other government systems that can operate well or badly.

Al Jazeera is owned by the government of Qatar. It-s hard for most American journalists to make themselves completely comfortable with this. It feels as if the protests against the events in Egypt this week came more loudly from Britain, which has a long tradition of government-owned broadcasting, than from the United States, and perhaps that-s why. It-s also the case that the current governments of Qatar and Egypt are at odds, and that the now suppressed Muslim Brotherhood and Qatar are friends. But the way to think about Al Jazeera is in comparison to the realistic alternatives. You may not see tough, independent investigative reporting about Qatar on Al Jazeera. You may see a general political perspective that, in representing the view from the Arab world, seems biased to many Americans. Still, in its nearly two decades on the air, Al Jazeera has established itself as far more than a crude state-media outlet. Spend a few minutes comparing it to Vladimir Putin-s RT and you will see the difference. Al Jazeera is now one of the largest news organizations in the world. It hires real journalists and does real reporting, and, when that happens, what viewers see cannot be entirely assonant with the wishes of its owners. Practically, although individual bloggers are more courageous, the better state-owned broadcasters represent the most powerful and pervasive movement toward press freedom in the Arab world. They ought to be encouraged, and encouraged to embody journalism as much as possible and political constraint as little as possible.

And the Egyptian government-s willingness to put Al Jazeera employees on trial, on such flimsy charges as being in possession of a spent bullet, is a brassy gesture of contempt for respectable opinion and regional media power, which the government surely feels toward all news organizations.

Everyone who cares about freedom should protest the verdicts in Egypt. Sisi has already turned down a request from President Obama, delivered in person by John Kerry, that he consider pardoning the journalists. Obloquy now seems to be a stronger weapon than negotiation. In the longer run, with years of American efforts to promote democracy in the Middle East in a shambles, press freedom in the region isn-t likely to move forward simply on the strength of its moral claim. And perhaps the press can help enable democracy, even if its supporting institutions aren-t democracies themselves. We can only hope that creating a mass audience for information and opinion will eventually loosen the grip of autocracy.
Photograph: Khaled Desouki-AFP-Getty.

Egypt sentences 3 Al-Jazeera reporters to 7 years - Associated Press - POLITICO.com
CAIRO -- An Egyptian court on Monday convicted three journalists from Al-Jazeera English and sentenced them to seven years in prison each on terrorism-related charges, bringing widespread criticism that the verdict was a blow to freedom of expression.
The three, Australian Peter Greste, Canadian-Egyptian Mohammed Fahmy and Egyptian Baher Mohammed, have been detained since a December raid on their Cairo hotel room, which they were using as an office as they covered protests by supporters of the ousted Islamist president. The raid was part of a broad crackdown against Islamists and the Muslim Brotherhood.
Continue Reading
They had pleaded innocent, saying they were simply doing their jobs as journalists. But they were charged with supporting the Brotherhood, which has been declared a terrorist organization, and of fabricating footage to undermine Egypt's national security and make it appear the country was facing civil war.
The prosecution provided little evidence in the case, showing video footage found in their possession -- most of which had nothing to do with the case, including a report on a veterinary hospital in Cairo, Christian life and old footage of Greste from previous assignments elsewhere in Africa.
"I swear they will pay for this," Fahmy, who was Al-Jazeera English's acting Cairo bureau chief, shouted angrily from the defendants' cage after the sentences were announced in the Cairo court Monday. Greste, a correspondent, raised his fists in the air.
"They just ruined a family," said Fahmy's brother Adel, who was attending the session. He said they would appeal the verdict but added that he had little faith in the system. "Everything is corrupt," he said. Greste's brother Andrew said he was "gutted" and also vowed to appeal.
Australian Foreign Minister Julia Bishop said, "We are all shocked by this verdict," adding that the government would contact newly elected Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi and ask him to intervene in the case.
"The Australian government urges the new government of Egypt to reflect what message is being sent to the world," she said. "We are deeply concerned that this verdict is part of a broader attempt to muzzle media freedoms."
The three received sentences of seven years each in a maximum security prison. Mohammed, the team's producer, received an extra three years because of additional charges of possession of ammunition. Al-Jazeera has said that charge was rooted in a spent shell found in his possession -- a souvenir he'd picked up from protests.
There were 17 other co-defendants in the case. Among them, two British journalists and a Dutch journalist who were not in Egypt and eight others being tried in absentia each received 10-year prison sentences. Two of them were acquitted, including the son of Mohammed el-Beltagy, a senior figure in the Muslim Brotherhood. Most of the co-defendants were students, arrested separately and accused of giving footage to the journalists.
The managing director of Qatar-based Al-Jazeera English, Al Anstey, said in a statement that "not a shred of evidence was found to support the extraordinary and false charges against them."
"To have detained them for 177 days is an outrage. To have sentenced them defies logic, sense, and any semblance of justice," he said.
The arrests of the journalists were part of a broad crackdown on the Brotherhood and other Islamists who have been holding protests since the July 3 ouster of President Mohammed Morsi by el-Sissi, the head of the military at the time. Security forces have killed hundreds of Morsi supporters and arrested thousands more.
The crackdown has already raised fears of suppression of any form of dissent, since police have also arrested non-Islamist opponents, largely for breaking a draconian law passed in December banning protests without a prior police permit.
Attending the session, Canadian ambassador David Drake said there are many questions over the verdict.
"We are very disappointed," he said. "We are digesting this ... We have to put our faith in the judicial system. We don't understand this particular verdict."
British ambassador James Watt also said he was disappointed, adding, "Freedom of expression is fundamental to any democracy."
Before the verdicts, Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said Monday he spoke with el-Sissi over the weekend and told him that Greste was innocent. "I did make the point that as an Australian journalist, Peter Greste would not have been supporting the Muslim Brotherhood, he would have simply been reporting on the Muslim Brotherhood," Abbott told reporters in Canberra.
"The point I made was that in the long run, a free and vigorous media are good for democracy, good for security, (and) good for stability," he said.
