Protesting Egypt-s Al Jazeera Verdict : The New Yorker

The seductive idea of steady human progress toward democracy has presented itself, at least to Americans, repeatedly in the Middle East during the past decade, almost always to be dashed. Three years ago, in Egypt, it was possible to believe that the fall of Hosni Mubarak was a step along the democratic path. What democracy looks like now in Egypt was last month-s Presidential election, in which Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who took power in a military coup, got ninety-seven per cent of the vote.

Freedom of the press has even more of the air of inevitability about it--how can anyone stand in the way of the Internet, of information? But, absent democracy and the basic suite of liberties and legal protections that goes along with it, press freedom is impossible to maintain. In Egypt this week, three Al Jazeera journalists, Baher Mohammad, Peter Greste, and Mohamad Fadel Fahmy, along with twenty other people whom the government deemed too sympathetic to the Muslim Brotherhood, were sentenced to long prison terms--seven years for Fahmy, a Canadian citizen, and for Greste, an Australian, and ten for Mohammad. (Three other foreign journalists were in a group that was tried and convicted in absentia; they are unlikely to report back to Egypt to serve their terms.) Press-freedom advocates and news organizations have been eloquent in protesting the Al Jazeera journalists- prosecution, but it-s important to keep their co-defendants in mind: their presence in the dock demonstrates how deeply press freedom is nested inside political freedom.

Even though political freedom is a necessary precondition of press freedom, it isn-t sufficient. Journalism costs money. Broadcast journalism is especially expensive, and it almost necessarily lives in some relationship with government, because broadcasters need access to public goods like the airwaves and transmission lines. The idea that a free press can live in a libertarian microclimate is a fantasy, appealing to journalists but not very realistic. The press needs more from government than just to be left alone. It needs a government that affirmatively protects a list of freedoms on which press freedom is only one item; it is inevitably enmeshed in other government systems that can operate well or badly.

Al Jazeera is owned by the government of Qatar. It-s hard for most American journalists to make themselves completely comfortable with this. It feels as if the protests against the events in Egypt this week came more loudly from Britain, which has a long tradition of government-owned broadcasting, than from the United States, and perhaps that-s why. It-s also the case that the current governments of Qatar and Egypt are at odds, and that the now suppressed Muslim Brotherhood and Qatar are friends. But the way to think about Al Jazeera is in comparison to the realistic alternatives. You may not see tough, independent investigative reporting about Qatar on Al Jazeera. You may see a general political perspective that, in representing the view from the Arab world, seems biased to many Americans. Still, in its nearly two decades on the air, Al Jazeera has established itself as far more than a crude state-media outlet. Spend a few minutes comparing it to Vladimir Putin-s RT and you will see the difference. Al Jazeera is now one of the largest news organizations in the world. It hires real journalists and does real reporting, and, when that happens, what viewers see cannot be entirely assonant with the wishes of its owners. Practically, although individual bloggers are more courageous, the better state-owned broadcasters represent the most powerful and pervasive movement toward press freedom in the Arab world. They ought to be encouraged, and encouraged to embody journalism as much as possible and political constraint as little as possible.

And the Egyptian government-s willingness to put Al Jazeera employees on trial, on such flimsy charges as being in possession of a spent bullet, is a brassy gesture of contempt for respectable opinion and regional media power, which the government surely feels toward all news organizations.

Everyone who cares about freedom should protest the verdicts in Egypt. Sisi has already turned down a request from President Obama, delivered in person by John Kerry, that he consider pardoning the journalists. Obloquy now seems to be a stronger weapon than negotiation. In the longer run, with years of American efforts to promote democracy in the Middle East in a shambles, press freedom in the region isn-t likely to move forward simply on the strength of its moral claim. And perhaps the press can help enable democracy, even if its supporting institutions aren-t democracies themselves. We can only hope that creating a mass audience for information and opinion will eventually loosen the grip of autocracy.
Photograph: Khaled Desouki-AFP-Getty.

Peter Greste case: Julie Bishop will press Egyptian government, but stopped short of condoning sanctions
Video will begin in 5 seconds.
Prime Minister 'bewildered' by Peter Greste verdict
Tony Abbott says the Government will do all it can to bring the journalist home, but won't engage in megaphone diplomacy.
PT2M18S http://www.smh.com.au/action/externalEmbeddedPlayer?id=d-3aq4x 620 349 June 24, 2014 - 12:05PM
The Abbott government has hauled in Egypt's senior representative to express Australia' dismay over the Peter Greste verdict in an escalation of the diplomatic row.
Diplomat Sherif Bedeir met Department of Foreign Affairs deputy secretary Gillian Bird in Canberra at 11am.
Sherif Bedeir from the Egyptian embassy leaves after his meeting on Peter Greste with the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Photo: Alex Ellinghausen
Ms Bird expressed Australia's anger and dissatisfaction at the harsh, seven-year jail sentence handed to the al-Jazeera journalist on Monday night. Two of Greste's colleagues were also jailed.
Advertisement
Mr Bedeir brushed past reporters outside the department both on his way in and out of the meeting. He declined to answer any questions.
Ambassador Hassan el-Laithy is in Egypt, leaving Mr Bedeir, Egypt's charge d'affaires, as the country's most senior diplomat.
Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop says she will continue to make high-level representation to Egypt on behalf of Peter Greste. Photo: Alex Ellinghausen
However, the government is understood to be moderating its tone towards the Egyptian government because it plans to lobby for a presidential pardon if the legal appeals process fails.
Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said the Abbott government would continue to make representations to the highest level of the Egyptian government on behalf of Greste.
But Ms Bishop played down the possibility of sanctions against Egypt, saying on Monday that the government wanted to keep dialogue open with the Egyptian government.
On Monday Prime Minister Tony Abbott said the government was ''shocked, dismayed, really bewildered by the decision of the court in Egypt''.
Speaking to reporters in Canberra, Mr Abbott said Australia respected the legitimacy of the Egyptian government andits justice system to make decisions.
''But it is important that there be due process, it is important that decisions be made on a fair and just basis. So we will be talking to the Greste family. We will be talking to the Egyptian Government about what we can do to try to ensure that Peter Greste comes home as quickly as possible,'' he said.
''My understanding is that the Egyptian court system does work at arm's length from the government, but I do understand that once the court system has done its work then there are options for presidential acts, presidential clemency, presidential pardons and so on and that's why I'm not in the business of being critical of the government as such.
Mr Abbott added that he did not want to engage in ''unhelpful megaphone diplomacy'', saying that won't do Peter Greste any good, it won't do his two al-Jazeera colleagues any good. What we want to do is to talk calmly and patiently and reasonably to the Egyptian government.''
Ms Bishop is trying to get in touch with the Egyptian foreign minister.
''I'm seeking a call with him to register our shock and dismay,'' she told the Seven Network.
''And we are going to register a formal diplomatic-level request with the new president of Egypt to see if he can intervene in the proceedings at this stage.''
Ms Bishop says the government has been working closely with the United States and other governments behind the scenes to put pressure on Egypt over the case.
Labor's foreign affairs spokeswoman Tanya Plibersek said on Monday that it was important to continue high level consular support to Greste and his family.
She called on Abbott government ministers to lobby their Egyptian counterparts to free the journalist and encourage other countries to voice their disapproval over his jailing.
Ms Plibersek declined to discuss whether the Greens' call for sanctions against Egypt was appropriate.
''I think the most important thing is putting Peter Greste and his needs at the centre of any decisions we're making,'' she told ABC radio.
''This has sent a very wrong signal about the commitment of Egypt to a free and functioning press.''
with AAP
Poll: Should Australia impose sanctions against Egypt over the sentence handed down in Cairo to journalist Peter Greste?
Yes, Australia need to take a strong stance against injustice
54%
No, these things are best dealt through diplomatic channels
46%
Total votes: 194.
Would you like to vote? 	You will need Cookies enabled to use our Voting Feature.
Poll closes in 5 hours.
Disclaimer:
These polls are not scientific and reflect the opinion only of visitors who have chosen to participate.
