Protesting Egypt-s Al Jazeera Verdict : The New Yorker

The seductive idea of steady human progress toward democracy has presented itself, at least to Americans, repeatedly in the Middle East during the past decade, almost always to be dashed. Three years ago, in Egypt, it was possible to believe that the fall of Hosni Mubarak was a step along the democratic path. What democracy looks like now in Egypt was last month-s Presidential election, in which Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who took power in a military coup, got ninety-seven per cent of the vote.

Freedom of the press has even more of the air of inevitability about it--how can anyone stand in the way of the Internet, of information? But, absent democracy and the basic suite of liberties and legal protections that goes along with it, press freedom is impossible to maintain. In Egypt this week, three Al Jazeera journalists, Baher Mohammad, Peter Greste, and Mohamad Fadel Fahmy, along with twenty other people whom the government deemed too sympathetic to the Muslim Brotherhood, were sentenced to long prison terms--seven years for Fahmy, a Canadian citizen, and for Greste, an Australian, and ten for Mohammad. (Three other foreign journalists were in a group that was tried and convicted in absentia; they are unlikely to report back to Egypt to serve their terms.) Press-freedom advocates and news organizations have been eloquent in protesting the Al Jazeera journalists- prosecution, but it-s important to keep their co-defendants in mind: their presence in the dock demonstrates how deeply press freedom is nested inside political freedom.

Even though political freedom is a necessary precondition of press freedom, it isn-t sufficient. Journalism costs money. Broadcast journalism is especially expensive, and it almost necessarily lives in some relationship with government, because broadcasters need access to public goods like the airwaves and transmission lines. The idea that a free press can live in a libertarian microclimate is a fantasy, appealing to journalists but not very realistic. The press needs more from government than just to be left alone. It needs a government that affirmatively protects a list of freedoms on which press freedom is only one item; it is inevitably enmeshed in other government systems that can operate well or badly.

Al Jazeera is owned by the government of Qatar. It-s hard for most American journalists to make themselves completely comfortable with this. It feels as if the protests against the events in Egypt this week came more loudly from Britain, which has a long tradition of government-owned broadcasting, than from the United States, and perhaps that-s why. It-s also the case that the current governments of Qatar and Egypt are at odds, and that the now suppressed Muslim Brotherhood and Qatar are friends. But the way to think about Al Jazeera is in comparison to the realistic alternatives. You may not see tough, independent investigative reporting about Qatar on Al Jazeera. You may see a general political perspective that, in representing the view from the Arab world, seems biased to many Americans. Still, in its nearly two decades on the air, Al Jazeera has established itself as far more than a crude state-media outlet. Spend a few minutes comparing it to Vladimir Putin-s RT and you will see the difference. Al Jazeera is now one of the largest news organizations in the world. It hires real journalists and does real reporting, and, when that happens, what viewers see cannot be entirely assonant with the wishes of its owners. Practically, although individual bloggers are more courageous, the better state-owned broadcasters represent the most powerful and pervasive movement toward press freedom in the Arab world. They ought to be encouraged, and encouraged to embody journalism as much as possible and political constraint as little as possible.

And the Egyptian government-s willingness to put Al Jazeera employees on trial, on such flimsy charges as being in possession of a spent bullet, is a brassy gesture of contempt for respectable opinion and regional media power, which the government surely feels toward all news organizations.

Everyone who cares about freedom should protest the verdicts in Egypt. Sisi has already turned down a request from President Obama, delivered in person by John Kerry, that he consider pardoning the journalists. Obloquy now seems to be a stronger weapon than negotiation. In the longer run, with years of American efforts to promote democracy in the Middle East in a shambles, press freedom in the region isn-t likely to move forward simply on the strength of its moral claim. And perhaps the press can help enable democracy, even if its supporting institutions aren-t democracies themselves. We can only hope that creating a mass audience for information and opinion will eventually loosen the grip of autocracy.
Photograph: Khaled Desouki-AFP-Getty.

Ottawa's stand on Fahmy's imprisonment is clear, Harper says - The Globe and Mail
Prime Minister Stephen Harper says the federal government has left no doubt about where it stands on the imprisonment of a Canadian journalist in Egypt and will continue to voice its concerns to Egyptian authorities.
Canada's reaction to the heavy jail terms handed out this week to Mohamed Fahmy, the Egyptian Canadian who was the bureau chief in Cairo for Al Jazeera English, and two colleagues was more tepid than the outrage expressed by countries such as Australia, Britain and the United States. And when Mr. Harper was asked about the case on Wednesday, his tone was measured.
More Related to this Story
"On the case of the journalist in Egypt, you know, we have been very clear on our deep concerns, not just about the verdict but about this process from the beginning. We have expressed those to the authorities. We have provided and have attempted to provide consular service," the Prime Minister told reporters in Quebec.
"Obviously there are some difficult circumstances here. But the Egyptian authorities are very aware of the position of the government of Canada," he said, "and we will continue to press that position going forward."
Mr. Harper has not publicly addressed the case of Mr. Fahmy since the journalist was arrested last December in a Cairo hotel room along with two other two Al Jazeera television network employees - Australian reporter Peter Greste and Egyptian cameraman Baher Mohamed.
And, unlike the leaders of other countries, including U.S. President Barack Obama, the Canadian government has never openly demanded the release of the Al Jazeera journalists.
Mr. Fahmy and Mr. Greste were sentenced to spend the next seven years in jail. Mr. Mohamed received a 10-year sentence. The Al Jazeera journalists were found guilty Monday on terrorism-related charges of supporting the banned Muslim Brotherhood, but they say they were simply doing their jobs and reporting on the short-lived Brotherhood-led government that was ousted by then-general Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi in 2013.
Mr. Fahmy's brother lashed out angrily at Mr. Harper after the verdicts were handed down, demanding to know why the Prime Minister had not asked the Egyptian President to seek the journalists' release.
Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott called Mr. el-Sissi on the weekend to make a plea on behalf of Mr. Greste.
But Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird told an Ottawa radio station this week that the Canadian government does not engage in "bullhorn diplomacy." He said both he and Lynne Yelich, the Minister of State for Consular Affairs, had raise the Fahmy case with authorities in Egypt. And he pointed out that Mr. Abbott's intervention was unsuccessful.
Mr. el-Sisi has rejected calls from outraged Western governments to pardon the three Al Jazeera journalists.
"We will not interfere in judicial matters because the Egyptian judiciary is an independent and exalted judiciary," he told a military graduation ceremony on Tuesday in a nationally televised speech.
He also urged people to stop talking about court decisions. "If we desire [strong] state institutions, we must respect court rulings and not comment on them even if others don't understand these rulings," he said.
Mr. Fahmy told his family, who visited him the day after the sentencing, that he and his two imprisoned colleagues cannot pin their hopes on an appeal in the Egyptian judicial system and he urged the international community to find another way to secure their release.
Adel Fahmy said his brother "is trying to keep the hope, and he's emphasizing that there must be another solution. We can't just wait for the appeals court. We are not guaranteed how it's going to be any different to the circus that just happened."
Mohamed Fahmy is shocked at the sentence, his brother said. "But he is staying strong and he's trying to make us feel better, saying, 'Please don't be upset, don't worry, we're going to find a way out of this.' "
The convictions of the journalists came after prolonged court proceedings in which prosecutors showed footage of sheep, football, horses and vacation shots. They refused to share evidence with the defence without a payment of nearly $200,000.
Mr. Baird said the prosecution was based on the fact that Al Jazeera is funded by the ruling family of Qatar, which has also supported the Muslim Brotherhood. "I don't think anyone believes he [Mr. Fahmy] is in cahoots with the Muslim Brotherhood," the minister said, "but obviously the government of Qatar has a close relationship."
Tom Henheffer, the executive director of Canadian Journalists for Free Expression, said in an interview that any assertion that the Al Jazeera journalists were working for the Muslim Brotherhood is ridiculous. "Al Jazeera has no tie to the Muslim Brotherhood whatsoever," Mr. Henheffer said. "It's a legitimate news outlet."
Follow Gloria Galloway on Twitter: @glorgal
