Protesting Egypt-s Al Jazeera Verdict : The New Yorker

The seductive idea of steady human progress toward democracy has presented itself, at least to Americans, repeatedly in the Middle East during the past decade, almost always to be dashed. Three years ago, in Egypt, it was possible to believe that the fall of Hosni Mubarak was a step along the democratic path. What democracy looks like now in Egypt was last month-s Presidential election, in which Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who took power in a military coup, got ninety-seven per cent of the vote.

Freedom of the press has even more of the air of inevitability about it--how can anyone stand in the way of the Internet, of information? But, absent democracy and the basic suite of liberties and legal protections that goes along with it, press freedom is impossible to maintain. In Egypt this week, three Al Jazeera journalists, Baher Mohammad, Peter Greste, and Mohamad Fadel Fahmy, along with twenty other people whom the government deemed too sympathetic to the Muslim Brotherhood, were sentenced to long prison terms--seven years for Fahmy, a Canadian citizen, and for Greste, an Australian, and ten for Mohammad. (Three other foreign journalists were in a group that was tried and convicted in absentia; they are unlikely to report back to Egypt to serve their terms.) Press-freedom advocates and news organizations have been eloquent in protesting the Al Jazeera journalists- prosecution, but it-s important to keep their co-defendants in mind: their presence in the dock demonstrates how deeply press freedom is nested inside political freedom.

Even though political freedom is a necessary precondition of press freedom, it isn-t sufficient. Journalism costs money. Broadcast journalism is especially expensive, and it almost necessarily lives in some relationship with government, because broadcasters need access to public goods like the airwaves and transmission lines. The idea that a free press can live in a libertarian microclimate is a fantasy, appealing to journalists but not very realistic. The press needs more from government than just to be left alone. It needs a government that affirmatively protects a list of freedoms on which press freedom is only one item; it is inevitably enmeshed in other government systems that can operate well or badly.

Al Jazeera is owned by the government of Qatar. It-s hard for most American journalists to make themselves completely comfortable with this. It feels as if the protests against the events in Egypt this week came more loudly from Britain, which has a long tradition of government-owned broadcasting, than from the United States, and perhaps that-s why. It-s also the case that the current governments of Qatar and Egypt are at odds, and that the now suppressed Muslim Brotherhood and Qatar are friends. But the way to think about Al Jazeera is in comparison to the realistic alternatives. You may not see tough, independent investigative reporting about Qatar on Al Jazeera. You may see a general political perspective that, in representing the view from the Arab world, seems biased to many Americans. Still, in its nearly two decades on the air, Al Jazeera has established itself as far more than a crude state-media outlet. Spend a few minutes comparing it to Vladimir Putin-s RT and you will see the difference. Al Jazeera is now one of the largest news organizations in the world. It hires real journalists and does real reporting, and, when that happens, what viewers see cannot be entirely assonant with the wishes of its owners. Practically, although individual bloggers are more courageous, the better state-owned broadcasters represent the most powerful and pervasive movement toward press freedom in the Arab world. They ought to be encouraged, and encouraged to embody journalism as much as possible and political constraint as little as possible.

And the Egyptian government-s willingness to put Al Jazeera employees on trial, on such flimsy charges as being in possession of a spent bullet, is a brassy gesture of contempt for respectable opinion and regional media power, which the government surely feels toward all news organizations.

Everyone who cares about freedom should protest the verdicts in Egypt. Sisi has already turned down a request from President Obama, delivered in person by John Kerry, that he consider pardoning the journalists. Obloquy now seems to be a stronger weapon than negotiation. In the longer run, with years of American efforts to promote democracy in the Middle East in a shambles, press freedom in the region isn-t likely to move forward simply on the strength of its moral claim. And perhaps the press can help enable democracy, even if its supporting institutions aren-t democracies themselves. We can only hope that creating a mass audience for information and opinion will eventually loosen the grip of autocracy.
Photograph: Khaled Desouki-AFP-Getty.

Convicted Al Jazeera journalist Mohamed Fahmy to give LE15,000 to El-Sisi's initiative - Politics - Egypt - Ahram Online
Convicted Al Jazeera journalist Mohamed Fahmy to give LE15,000 to El-Sisi's initiative
Al Jazeera reporter matches president's efforts to donate to Egypt's economy, just a day after he was sentenced to seven years in prison
Ahram Online, Wednesday 25 Jun 2014
Mohammed Fahmy, Canadian-Egyptian acting bureau chief of Al-Jazeera, appears in a defendant's cage along with several other defendants (Photo: AP)
Egyptian-Canadian Al Jazeera journalist Mohamed Fahmy, who was sentenced to seven years in prison on Monday for spreading false news, has decided to donate LE15,000 to a new initiative launched by President Abdel-Fattah El-Sisi to assist Egypt through its economic crisis, Reuters' affiliated Aswat Masriya website reported.
Fahmy's brother told Aswat Masriya in a telephone call that his family expects to make the donation on Thursday on behalf of the journalist.
He added that he hopes that the donation will make Egypt's president consider pardoning his brother.
Two Al Jazeera journalists, Australian Peter Greste and Egyptian-Canadian Mohamed Fahmy, were sentenced to seven years in prison on charges including spreading false news, falsely portraying Egypt as being in a state of civil war, as well as aiding or joining the now outlawed Muslim Brotherhood.
Al Jazeera producer Baher Mohamed was handed two jail terms amounting to 10 years.
Eleven co-defendants, tried in absentia on similar charges, received 10-year terms each, while two others were acquitted.
The verdict received condemnation by many western countries, including the UK, the US and Australia.
Egypt's recently appointed President El-Sisi said on Tuesday he will donate half of his LE42,000 monthly salary and half of his wealth to support the Egyptian economy.
Later on Tuesday, Egyptian media tycoon Mohamed El-Amin said he would donate half of his wealth and a sum equal to a half month's salary from all his employees - likely a considerable amount as he owns three of Egypt's most popular satellite channels.
Short link:
