BBC staff and colleagues from other news organisations take part in a one-minute silent protest outside New Broadcasting House against the seven-year jail terms given to three al-Jazeera journalists in Egypt.
Rob Stothard / GETTY
It was a kangaroo court of such flagrant absurdity that you half-expected the prosecutor to submit an actual kangaroo as Exhibit A. He didn't, but he did the next best thing: he submitted an Australian pop music video. And a BBC podcast. And a catalogue of other items so farcically immaterial to the trial of three journalists that even the most imaginative, disturbed or drunk-off-his-face judge couldn't have sincerely believed them to be relevant.
But sincerity, sanity and sobriety be damned! The judge sentenced the journalists to seven years in prison for committing the grave crime of journalism.
Now Egypt stands accused of making a mockery of the rule of law and media freedoms. But that accusation makes a mockery of the phrase "making a mockery." Egypt isn't just tossing around a few snide remarks about fundamental rights; Egypt is doubling over in hysterics at the very idea of fundamental rights while laugh-screaming "Hahahaha! Fair trials are stupid and you're all stupid for believing in them and freedom of expression is also the dumbest thing ever, GET IT?!" If rights are a joke, then Egypt is the comedian who shrieks a slew of profanity-laced insults into the microphone at his audience before vomiting all over the stage.
According to Freedom House, global press freedoms are at the lowest level in a decade. Egypt doesn't have copyright on the punchline that comes at the expense of journalists: democracies and dictatorships are making the same joke, just with different setups. The laughter is drowning out the media.
Related
Obviously fans of physical comedy will want to check out authoritarian regimes, the kings of slapstick. (Also the kings of everything else, like the Internet and your thoughts). Earlier this year, Turkey pulled a gag where police pointed a water cannon directly at a reporter covering a protest. The stream propelled her into the air like a rag doll. Classic! Seems that firing rubber bullets at people and dousing them with tear gas was getting tired.
China is more into gallows humour about journalists. As in, Chinese officials have killed journalists who were investigating them, and they find the notion of journalistic freedom humorous.
But Western democracies usually consider authoritarian jokes too on the nose. The snobs among us prefer British comedy: if you're someone who brags about only watching the original Office, first, stop it; second, you must have loved that bit where under a terrorism act, British police detained the partner of journalist Glenn Greenwald, who broke the global surveillance story. They didn't do it to intimidate Greenwald, officials claimed with impeccably straight faces; they did it because the journalist's "design is to influence government" so "lives were endangered," the Home Office deadpanned.
But if Britain's government is a comedic celebrity, Canada's is an under-appreciated comedic genius. Harper's government has held media events and not allowed reporters to attend. It's announced caucus meetings after the meetings began. And immigration minister Chris Alexander recently gave a brilliant performance featuring him hanging up on a journalist who asked why he wouldn't answer how many Syrian refugees are in Canada.
"I have to go to Question Period," Alexander quipped before hanging up the phone. Somebody give this guy a Gemini; just don't try to interview him about it after the awards ceremony.
These clowns are hilarious, right? Sure, sometimes it's hard to see the humour in journalists being systematically obstructed from investigating whether protesters are being attacked in Egypt or citizens are being spied on everywhere or the public's interest is otherwise being violated egregiously. But holding governments to account is becoming a goddamned joke, and it's so funny it's killing us.
Shannon Gormley is a Canadian journalist based in Istanbul.
