US to use diplomacy in bid to free Australian journalist, envoy promises
Video will begin in 5 seconds.
'We cannot let the Greste decision stand': US Ambassador
The US will continue all legal and diplomatic means to help jailed journalist Peter Greste says US Ambassador John Berry.
PT1M30S http://www.smh.com.au/action/externalEmbeddedPlayer?id=d-3at08 620 349 June 25, 2014
US Ambassador John Berry has vowed Washington will do everything it can to free Australian journalist Peter Greste from his Egyptian jail cell, insisting ''we cannot let this decision stand''.
Three days after Greste was sentenced to seven years' jail for spreading false news and supporting the blacklisted Muslim Brotherhood, Mr Berry left open the possibility of using military aid and relations with Cairo as sources of leverage.
''We're going to remain engaged ... on this issue until hopefully we have it resolved,'' he said. ''We're not going to walk away. The United States always uses every tool in its toolbox as effectively as it can ... This is one we'll be working creatively using all of the art of diplomacy and all of the tools in our toolkit. We cannot let this decision stand. It is one that the United States condemns with the strongest language.''
Jailed: Peter Greste in court. Photo: AFP
Mr Berry repeatedly referred to US Secretary of State John Kerry's attack on the court's ruling this week, in which he called the decision ''chilling and draconian'' and a ''disturbing setback to Egypt's transition''.
Advertisement
Mr Kerry was in Cairo immediately before the verdict and made an appeal for Greste and his colleagues, while also discussing resumed military aid totalling about $580 million. International commentators have since described the harsh sentences as a slap in the face to Mr Kerry, amid concerns that the traditionally pro-Western Egypt is coming more heavily under the rival influence of Saudi Arabia.
But Mr Berry rejected the suggestion the verdict was a snub to his boss Mr Kerry. ''It is not helpful in diplomacy when we sometimes tend to personalise conflicts or the sequence of events ... We don't take these things personally in the diplomatic corps.''
Experts and sources say that at the heart of the case is a regional tussle over the role of Islamist politics, particularly the banned Muslim Brotherhood. Egypt and Saudi Arabia are taking a hard line against the Islamist political organisation. But the Brotherhood enjoys the backing of wealthy Gulf State Qatar, home to the al-Jazeera network, Greste's employer.
Greste can appeal against his sentence. The Abbott government is understood, however, to believe at this stage that an appeal to Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi to grant clemency offers the best hope for the journalist's early release.
On Tuesday evening, Mr al-Sisi delivered a blow to Greste's hopes, insisting he would ''not interfere in judicial rulings''.
''We must respect judicial rulings and not criticise them even if others do not understand this,'' Mr al-Sisi said.
There has been international outcry over the prison sentences given to Greste and his two colleagues, Egyptian-Canadian Cairo bureau chief Mohamed Fadel Fahmy and Egyptian producer Baher Mohamed.
