Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

Rolf Harris child sex abuse education video surfaces after entertainer found guilty in London court
Video will begin in 5 seconds.
Rolf Harris tells kids 'just say no'
Excerpts from Rolf Harris' 1985 school safety video warning children against adults and touches that "give you a no feeling".
PT1M55S http://www.smh.com.au/action/externalEmbeddedPlayer?id=d-3b552 620 349 July 1, 2014 - 10:17AM
Rolf Harris, then a trusted and beloved entertainer, strolls into shot flanked by four youngsters. As they form a circle on the grass, Harris asks them to soak in the warmth of nature. "Let's breathe that air and feel that all over your skin. It's good isn't it?"
He leans over to a primary school-aged girl in a canary yellow top and holds her shoulders, saying: "It's a sort of feeling when you want to give somebody a big hug."
Centre of the storm: Rolf Harris leaves the court as a guilty man. Photo: Reuters
Harris then rubs his hands on the cheeks of a young boy and continues: "Or one of those pats that make you feel good."
Advertisement
This is the opening scene of what is now an unsettling 20-minute long anti-child-abuse video that prosecutors planned to play for the jury at Harris' indecent assault trial before it was barred by the judge. Overnight, Harris was declared guilty of all 12 charges of indecent assault against four girls, from 1968 to 1986.
The video, called 'Kids Can Say No', was developed in the mid-1980s, when he was indecently assaulting young women and girls - including one as young as seven or eight.
Harris had commissioned and fronted the child protection video, with endorsement from the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, after being inspired by similar programs in Australia. In the period when the video began to be widely shown in schools, youth clubs and health institutes in the United Kingdom, the court found he was also having sexual encounters with his daughter's best friend.
In 1986, he had sexually abused an eight-year-old girl at a community centre near her home when Harris performed 'Two Little Boys' for the children.
The victim, 'R', told the court she felt his hand "out of nowhere" go down her back and up between her legs, "aggressively and forcefully". She said: "I knew it wasn't an accident... I understood that was wrong".
In the video, Harris speaks of different scenarios where children could find themselves in danger, like accepting a stranger's offer of a ride home or an attempt by an adult to have a bubble bath together.
In one scene, a young girl waits for her friend inside a home with the father. The man spills a drink on the girl and then attempts to unbutton her top.
"She has to do something, first of all she should look at him straight in the eye and tell him to stop," Harris says. "You must not be ashamed to tell people that you were touched where you didn't want to be touched."
He even goes as far as to say that children should not fear telling an adult about touching that causes "bad feeling" in case they person they accuse goes to prison.
"Some people don't act right with kids, and they need help. You can't protect them from trouble that they themselves have caused and it's better to say something so that you and the family can get the help you need," he says.
The video ends with a catchy tune and dance, where Harris sings with 20 cheery kids: "My body's nobody's body but mine, you run your own body, let me run mine."
The video was uploaded onto YouTube by a user named Craig Anderson. He claims that when he first uploaded it, he was hit with a copyright infringement notice from "Rolf Harris Productions."
