Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

Rolf Harris guilty but could face new charges - ABC Newcastle NSW - Australian Broadcasting Corporation
But the Australian-born entertainer, who moved to England in 1952, could also face new charges as police investigate fresh allegations against him.
ABC Europe correspondent Barbara Miller told Jill Emberson from 1233 ABC Newcastle Mornings the new claims are very recent.
"We've heard today that police are confirming that fresh allegations have been made, and they're looking into them," she says.
"We understand that these are new allegations, whether those will ever come to court we just don't know.
"Very early days, it will depend on the strength of the allegations and potentially the willingness of witnesses to testify."
The ABC journalist says whether the new claims are pursued will also depend on what sentence 84-year-old Harris receives on Friday.
The judge made it clear Harris should expect to be sent to jail, and each count he's been convicted of carries a maximum penalty of two years.
Among many incidents of indecent assault described by witnesses at Harris's trial, was one that occurred at a hardware store in the Newcastle suburb of Hamilton.
A mother and daughter who attended an event at which the entertainer was present claimed he hugged the girl, then put his hands under her blouse and groped her.
The mother also said Harris rubbed himself against her when she posed for a photograph with him.
When she confronted him and called him a disgusting creature he sneered at her and, referring to her daughter, responded "she liked it".
The two Newcastle women were among six who testified about incidents that happened outside the UK and weren't among the charges against Harris, but formed part of "bad character" evidence.
The jury took eight days to deliver unanimous verdicts on all 12 counts of indecent asssault Harris was charged with, involving four girls in the UK between 1968 and 1986.
Barbara Miller says while last year there was still considerable support for Harris among his fans, with many refusing to believe the claims, that seems to have changed.
"We really didn't see many fans coming forward," she says.
When he took the stand during the trial Harris, who's always built his career around his Australian roots, talked about the didgeridoo and reminded the jury he invented the wobble board.
"They are all making it up", he told they jury, adamantly denying his guilt.
But the performer's previously squeaky-clean reputation is of no help to him now, with English newspapers greeting the verdict with headlines calling Harris a paedophile, sex abuser and condemning his "depravity".
The judge, who's asked to see Harris's latest medical records, said given the conviction on all 12 counts "it's inevitable that the type of sentence uppermost in the court's mind is a custodial sentence".
Harris's legal team now have 28 days to lodge an appeal.
A spokesman for the Harris family says no one, including his lawyers, will be making any public comment or doing interviews.
Harris was arrested in March last year on suspicion of sexual offences as part of Operation Yewtree, set up after revelations concerning the late BBC presenter, Jimmy Savile.
However Harris's crimes are not linked to those committed by Savile.
The main accuser was a childhood friend of his daughter, Bindi, who along with her mother Alwen broke down in tears when the guilty verdicts were read.
