Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

Rolf Harris turned Australians' pride to shame | Comment is free | theguardian.com
The middle-aged memory can be fickle.
But for decades an image of Rolf Harris, captured in a circle of light on the otherwise pitch-black stage below us, remained an enduringly warm fixture in my recollection of childhood.
I was three or four when I sat up there beside my older sister and between my parents, in the front row of the upper stall of one of those elaborate deco theatres that defined Melbourne in the 1960s. And I, like the other kids in the audience, roared with laughter at Jake the Peg (with an extra leg) and sang along to the bits of Tie Me Kangaroo Down, Sport I'd picked up from Rolf on TV.
The guy was brilliant. With a lightning tongue and a magician's aura he knocked out a sketch of an audience member in a few moments, played the wobble board and danced and sang hilarious songs for us.
Happiness personified, he sent me into the night - and the decades to come - with a memory that I'd eventually share with my own children.
For my generation of Australians, born late in the era of Menzies and raised on early British and American pop culture, Rolf Harris became an enigmatic and captivating childhood cultural totem. A friendly wizard, he was easy for mums and dads to approve of because he lacked (or so they thought) the sexual danger exuded by the edgier pop stars of the day with whom he rubbed shoulders and sometimes shared stages.
And he was one of ours. Well, technically at least. In 1952 as a 22-year-old, Harris trailblazed what would become a busy route from Australia to London for generations of writers, journalists, artists and public intellectuals including Germaine Greer and Clive James.
But even as he aged, adapted, and won further British fame, he remained to us uniquely Australian - a daggy oddity with our accent whose success in the UK we quietly celebrated.
We celebrated, too, because he seemed so familiar to us. It's curious how unquestioningly we take into adulthood with us those who we trust so readily as children. And now that Harris - a weary and publicly humiliated 84-year-old - potentially faces jail for indecently assaulting four girls, this irony has never been more discomfortingly apparent.
Australia has followed the sordid details of the Harris case forensically. Even before he was named as a suspected perpetrator of the same sort of predatory sexual behavior that exposed the dark side of British light entertainment courtesy of the appalling Jimmy Savile, the rumours about Harris swept across the antipodes like a summer grassfire.
Then with the charges and subsequent trial came the many shocking Australian angles, as females from Harris's birthplace also aired stories of a man who misused his unique position of celebrity trust to pathologically abuse and scar legions of women and girls.
Even as we grew up and away from Rolf's naff public persona, Australians of my generation continued to quietly celebrate his evolution on British stage and TV. We nodded approvingly when he squeezed new cred from his cover of Stairway to Heaven (so bad it was good). Even some of the republicans among us indulged perverse delight that the folksy one time art student from Bassendean, Western Australia, became a Queen's portraitist.
Australians have always sought approval from outside, especially England. And I think there's little denying that even as we tired, as adults, of the Harris cheesiness, we were pleased that one of ours had somehow won that which had eluded so many other Australians - British respectability.
Harris was already the subject of a thousand dinner party and pub conversations across the country that begin with the exclamation "I saw Rolf Harris as a kid and I ..."
But now a sense of shame at his wicked acts is palpable in our media coverage of his evolution from Australian lad who conquered Britain to convicted sex offender.
For its part, Bassendean, where Harris grew up, is deliberating on whether to remove a statue of its most famous son. Jail time would be tough for such an old man. But nothing wounds the famous quite like such a public shaming.
I had my own Rolf Harris "awakening" in London about a decade ago. There he was, the man in the spotlight, standing just across the room at a function filled with other Australians. I asked a mutual acquaintance to introduce us.
I told Harris I'd been a great fan of his since I was a kid.
Most reluctantly he shook my hand. Then he said, rather diffidently: "Oh yes." And then he turned away.
Those of us who grew up with Rolf Harris inevitably will be indulging a sense of betrayal right now.
But mostly we should think of his victims' courage and pain now that the spotlight has finally captured the real him.
