Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

Rolf Harris victim Tonya Lee cries with relief over guilty verdict
Tonya Lee in an earlier interview A Current Affair.
An Australian woman sexually abused by Rolf Harris who testified against him cried with relief when expressing her happiness at his guilty verdict.
A British court found Harris, 84, guilty on Monday of 12 counts of indecent assault against four girls committed between 1968 and 1986.
In an interview with A Current Affair on Tuesday night, victim Tonya Lee, 43, cried with relief.
Rolf Harris victim Tonya Lee expresses her relief on A Current Affair. Photo: Channel Nine
''I feel proud, I feel incredibly gobsmacked. I can't believe, I'm so happy that he was found guilty.
Advertisement
''I can't believe it and it just shows that the justice system does work.''
Early on, Ms Lee waived her right to anonymity so she could talk publicly about her experience. She agreed to a deal with Woman's Day and A Current Affair for interviews, to take place after she spoke to police.
She wanted to open the door for other women to come forward, she told A Current Affair.
Ms Lee flew to London to testify against Harris.
She told the court that just after she turned 15, she was chosen to join her theatre group's six-week tour of Britain in 1986. It was a dream come true, she said: her first trip overseas.
When they arrived in London from Sydney, a surprise had been arranged - Harris was at the airport to meet the group.
That evening, Harris met the group again in a pub for dinner. The group were in high spirits and sang songs. Ms Lee sang a solo.
Then Mr Harris said: ''You have a lovely singing voice, come and tell me a bit about yourself ... come and sit down on my lap.'' She did so.
He asked about her musical ambitions and plans for the tour.
But then she noticed ''he was moving back and forth, rubbing [his crotch] against me'', she said. He then started to pat her on the thigh, then moved his hand between her legs, ''higher and higher''.
She was feeling very uncomfortable and ''started to panic'' wondering how she could get out of the situation but Harris was still joking and laughing with her and other dinner guests, his actions hidden by the table, Ms Lee said.
When his hand touched her crotch she made an excuse and went to the bathroom. She sat there with a ''whole lot of confusion'' in her head.
But when she came out of the toilet, Harris was waiting in the hallway outside. He gave her an ''all-encompassing'' hug and wedged her between the wall and a big pot plant.
She felt intimidated, claustrophobic and trapped, she said.
Harris put his hand down her top and fondled her breast.
''I was petrified ... I probably should have screamed but I think I was in shock,'' she said.
''He took away from me that feeling that you can ever be normal again,'' she said.
Fairfax Media
