Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

Rolf Harris 'attacked high-profile TV presenter during interview' - Independent.ie
Paul Peachey
Published 30/06/2014|22:48
Rolf Harris was accused of brazenly attacking a prominent television celebrity during a television interview, it can be revealed today after new allegations emerged against the disgraced entertainer following his convictions for a string of sex attacks against four girls going back more than 40 years.
Harris faces a raft of new claims of sex assaults including against high-profile figures in both Britain and Australia that emerged during his trial that saw him convicted of indecent assaults on girls, one of them as young as seven or eight.
It emerged that the jury was not told about six other women who came forward to complain of groping and inappropriate sexual behaviour as their evidence was not used at the trial.
It included an alleged incident at a party in a pub for the talkshow host Michael Parkinson when Harris kissed the neck of a young woman in front of his wife, and an alleged assault on a 14-year-old at a Sydney motel when he told her: "Rolfie deserves a cuddle". Another woman said he stuck his tongue into her mouth at an art class in Belfast.
It has also emerged that other women in Australia have come forward to say they had been groped by the former children's favourite, who was known as the 'Octopus' within sections of the entertainment industry.
The new claims and the history of his previous behaviour pointed to a series of high-risk sexual assaults often when he was surrounded by crowds of fans. He then acted as if nothing had happened.
The final ignominy for Harris would come with the stripping of his honours, allowed if someone is jailed for more than three months. The Queen - whose portrait Harris painted in 2005 - will have the final say on whether the disgraced artist and performer loses his honours, which have included an MBE, OBE and CBE.
Witnesses at his trial gave evidence about attacks in Australia, Malta and New Zealand but Harris was only charged with crimes relating to four victims - aged from seven to 19 at the time of the attacks - that were committed in Britain.
The law in Britain was not changed until 1997 that meant Harris could not be charged with attacks that took place abroad before that time. Fresh allegations of abuse emerged during the trial of "inappropriate conduct" in his home state of Western Australia. The state's force - which covers Bassendean where Harris was born - declined to comment on any questions "specific to an individual" about whether they were planning to investigate and charge Harris in those cases.
The guilty verdicts have completed the destruction of his reputation as a trusted children's entertainer and defender of their interests. He appeared in a video intended for education in schools in 1985 to warn children of the dangers of being molested by adults.
The verdicts may not end Harris's legal woes after new women came forward including one at the start of the trial who alleged that he assaulted her in front of the television cameras. Harris is accused of groping her during an interview which was then cut short. The presenter did not mention to anyone what had happened at the time.
"It took place in a very public place," said Sasha Wass, counsel for the prosecution during a pre-trial hearing. "It was during the course of that interview that she was indecently assaulted by the defendant."
Harris allegedly put his hands "over her clothing and up her thigh, and higher still when she abruptly drew the interview to a halt. He cupped her buttocks which she describes as groping," the barrister told Southwark Crown Court in the absence of the jury. "She then said the interview came to a halt."
Two Australian radio presenters have also gone public during the trial on claims that Harris groped them after they both conducted interviews. Jane Marwick told radio station 6PR that the presenter grabbed her breast during a photo opportunity after an interview. She said that she put it down at the time to inappropriate behaviour by a "grubby old man".
"Had I realised that there were allegedly people of very tender years involved I would have done something about that," she told the station of the assault which she said was witnessed by a co-host. "I can't comment on anyone else's allegations but it's time for me to say that I know that this man, in my case was capable of very inappropriate behaviour in a public place, in extraordinarily enough, in the company of others."
Her comments prompted another former presenter, Verity James, to tell the same network that he also groped her and a producer following an interview. "He kind of pushes you up against a wall in a big hug, grabbing at the buttocks and rubbing on your breasts," she said.
Independent News Service
