Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

How many more victims? A dozen women come forward the day after the Rolf Harris verdict
Harris believed to have PS11million fortune from his art, music and TV careers
Law firm handling Savile, Clifford and Hall cases may take on Harris victims
'Up to a dozen' women have contacted Slater & Gordon about compensation
Harris' money is in companies and trusts, including two set up before arrest
By Rebecca Camber
Published: 12:32 GMT, 1 July 2014 | Updated: 23:52 GMT, 1 July 2014
Rolf Harris faced a flood of fresh abuse allegations yesterday as his victims vowed to reduce him to ruin by launching claims on his PS11million fortune.
A dozen new alleged victims have contacted lawyers seeking compensation payouts which could top PS70,000 each, with a High Court civil claim set to be launched in weeks which will effectively freeze the disgraced entertainer's assets.
Harris, 84, faces being stripped of his fortune and honours, while galleries, schools and even a zoo scrambled to remove all trace of the paintings and plaques which once celebrated his life's work.
Scroll down for video
Compensation: Rolf Harris' PS11million fortune would be inherited by his daughter Bindi, right after his conviction yesterday, but 'up to a dozen' women have already contacted a law firm to apply for payouts
Harris was convicted on Monday of 12 counts of indecent assault on victims as young as seven after a jury refused to believe his protestations of innocence during the eight-week trial.
The court heard that Harris, who faces jail on Friday, was a 'Jekyll and Hyde' predator who targeted youngsters and thought he was 'above the law'.
Yesterday it also emerged that:
Child protection campaigners were inundated with calls, with the potential number of victims in Britain, Australia and New Zealand now thought to exceed 40;
He is likely to have his MBE, OBE, CBE and Officer of the Order of Australia revoked;
Fresh questions about his links to Jimmy Savile emerged as footage was released of the pair joking in a TV studio as Harris sketched his paedophile friend;
Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said he was 'gutted' by the conviction;
Harris's home in Bray, Berkshire, could be sold to pay for compensation for his victims;
He is staying in the multi-million pound house, which backs on to the Thames, with wife Alwen, 82, as he awaits Friday's sentencing.
Yesterday plaques honouring the paedophile were torn down at Colchester Zoo in Essex where Harris opened a PS1million elephant enclosure in 1997. Paintings were also removed from schools and galleries in Australia.
Yesterday a law firm said it had been contacted by 12 women thought to be from the UK, New Zealand and Australia.
Their allegations of sexual abuse could be passed to Scotland Yard, which is already reviewing a handful of new victims.
Richard Scorer, lawyer for Slater and Gordon which represents 176 victims of Savile, said the firm had been contacted by 'up to a dozen people' and were considering them carefully.
Disgraced: In Australia a plaque laid in his home town near Perth has been defaced and may be pulled up while prime minister Tony Abbott said he was 'gutted and dismayed' by the news Harris was convicted
He said: 'We back an over-arching inquiry into child abuse once those reports which are still outstanding are completed.
'What we have discovered in the wake of the Jimmy Savile scandal is just how deep child abuse in institutions ran and how some people were seemingly allowed to continue their sickening crimes unchallenged.' Mr Scorer added: 'It is therefore vital we do everything possible now to learn from the mistakes of the past and take this opportunity to toughen the laws around the protection of children and vulnerable adults in institutions.'
Liz Dux, an abuse lawyer at the same firm, added that they planned to launch a High Court claim on behalf of the victims 'within weeks', to prevent Harris transferring the deeds of his home and multi-million-pound assets from three companies to his daughter or other family members.
NSPCC chief executive Peter Wanless said they had received an 'explosion of calls' from people concerned about sexual abuse, with 36 of those calls relating to 13 alleged victims of Harris.
Director of Public Prosecutions Alison Saunders said: 'We know there has been more reporting, what we don't know yet is whether or not more charges will follow.
'We will work with the police and look at any cases that they send to us to see whether there is enough evidence to bring more charges. So it is too early to say.'
Last night there were calls for a public inquiry to look into the culture at the time of historic sex abuse carried out by the likes of Harris and Savile.
Liberal Democrat MP Greg Mulholland said: 'We have seen another celebrity convicted of a string of appalling child sex offences; someone who has used and abused their position and their power.
'Is it not now time that we had an overarching inquiry into the culture at that time of these historical sex offences, so that we can both bring closure to that and actually learn lessons for the future?'
Government sources said it 'looked inevitable' that Harris will be stripped of a string of honours awarded by the Queen. His case will be considered by the independent honours forfeiture committee after his sentence on Friday.
