Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

Rolf Harris Faces Fresh Sex Abuse Claims in Britain - NDTV
File photo of Australian entertainer Rolf Harris.
London: 	 A dozen women have made fresh allegations against veteran TV star Rolf Harris after a British court found him guilty of a string of sex assaults against girls over nearly 20 years.
Australian-born Harris, 84, could spend the rest of his life in jail after his conviction by a London court on Monday on 12 counts of indecently assaulting four girls aged seven to 19 between 1968 and 1986.
Law firm Slater and Gordon, which represents over 200 women allegedly abused by late BBC star Jimmy Savile and other stars, said on Tuesday it had been contacted by 12 women from Britain, Australia and New Zealand with claims about Harris.
"We back an over-arching inquiry into child abuse once those reports which are still outstanding are completed," said Richard Storer of the firm.
"What we have discovered in the wake of the Jimmy Savile scandal is just how deep child abuse in institutions ran and how some people were seemingly allowed to continue their sickening crimes unchallenged."
England's chief prosecutor, Alison Saunders, told the BBC it was too early to say whether Harris would face fresh charges.
Reports suggest he could now be stripped of his CBE, one of the highest honours which Queen Elizabeth II can bestow, following his conviction.
The star, known for hit songs such as "Two Little Boys", had been a national treasure in Britain since the 1960s, painting the queen on her 80th birthday and presenting TV shows such as the BBC's "Animal Hospital".
In his native Australia, Prime Minister Tony Abbott said he was "gutted and dismayed" by Harris's conviction.
Harris is the second person to be convicted under Operation Yewtree, the high-profile police investigation set up in 2012 following allegations that Savile was a prolific sex offender.
The Sun newspaper reported on Tuesday that Harris and Savile had toured women's wards at the high-security Broadmoor psychiatric hospital together in the 1970s as patients were undressing before bed.
Health officials confirmed Harris visited Broadmoor in 1973, possibly with Savile, but insisted there was "no suggestion of any inappropriate behaviour".
Harris is due to be sentenced on Friday.
