Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

Harris victims 'proud' of guilty verdict
By Australian Associated Press
Published: 12:10 GMT, 1 July 2014 | Updated: 12:10 GMT, 1 July 2014
One of Rolf Harris's victims, Australian Tonya Lee, says she feels proud, excited and "gobsmacked" the Australian entertainer has been found guilty.
The 84-year-old was convicted on Monday of 12 counts of indecent assault against four girls, one of whom was as young as seven or eight.
Ms Lee on Tuesday said she couldn't believe the guilty verdict had been handed down.
"I am so happy that he was found guilty," she told the Nine Network.
"It just shows the justice system does work."
Three of the 12 charges Harris faced at his British trial related to Ms Lee, who said the assaults took place when she was 14 and part of a theatre group touring London.
She said she still hated him for what he did to her life.
"I hate that he's ruined my life and he doesn't even acknowledge it," she said.
"He doesn't even remember me, that's what he told the court. Can you believe that?
"It just makes me think that he's done it time and time again, but what he's done to my life is unchangeable."
The mother of three, who is the only victim to go public, said she had no regrets about speaking out.
"You need to tell people this is what happened to you, this person can't get away with it," she said.
"I wanted to open the door for other women to come forward."
She said that she saw Harris going into court, but did not say anything to him.
"I wanted to say a lot to him," she said.
"I just don't think he would have heard or listened, understood. I don't think he would have known the impact of what he's done."
When asked if she will now be able to move on, she said she did not know.
"I still struggle from day to day," she said.
Ms Lee's reaction to the verdict comes as one of Harris' friends, Cathy Henkel, told the ABC she was saddened but not surprised by the verdict.
Ms Henkel led the theatre group on its London tour and was a witness in the eight-week trial, testifying on behalf of Ms Lee.
She said Mr Harris' brother, Bruce, badgered her "a little bit" when news of the charges broke, and asked Ms Henkel repeatedly "it couldn't have happened, you have to say it couldn't have happened."
"But I couldn't say that," she said.
"I had to say `I can't say it didn't happen'."
Ms Henkel said she never observed anything sinister in Harris' behaviour, and never thought he would abuse children.
Harris is likely to be jailed at his sentencing on Friday.

