Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

1 July 2014 Last updated at 17:57
Who, what, why: What happened to Rolf Harris's portrait of the Queen?
Who, What, Why The Magazine answers the questions behind the news
One of disgraced entertainer Rolf Harris's highest profile works of art was his portrait of the Queen, but where is the painting now?
Questions have been asked about the work amid speculation about Harris facing compensation claims after being convicted of a series of sex attacks.
Harris's oil painting was undertaken as part of a BBC television documentary to mark the Queen's 80th birthday. The monarch sat twice for Harris to paint her over the summer of 2005.
After it was unveiled in December that year, the portrait, which took Harris two months to complete, initially went on public display at the Queen's Gallery in Buckingham Palace.
But this was just a six-month display. A Royal Collection spokeswoman says: "It was only loaned to us briefly". She says she did not know where the painting, which is not part of the Royal Collection, ended up.
Continue reading the main story
The answer
Last displayed in Liverpool in 2012, it is likely to have been returned to Harris
Both the BBC and the Royal Collection say they do not have it
The BBC, which originally approached Buckingham Palace asking whether the Queen would be willing to sit for the painting, said it was not in its possession.
"We've been asked about this before and the position hasn't changed. The BBC does not have this painting in its collection," a spokeswoman says. She would not address the issue of the painting's ownership.
Harris offered the painting to the National Portrait Gallery, but it was turned down.
The work appears to have been most recently displayed by Liverpool's Walker Gallery, which said it had been part of Harris's private collection. It was on show in 2012 as part of an exhibition of his work, all of which came from private owners.
A Walker Gallery spokeswoman says that after the exhibition finished in August 2012, the painting was returned to Whitewall Galleries, which is understood to have had a commercial relationship with Harris. Harris launched the gallery chain's Liverpool branch in 2011 and a Google search shows that his work was previously listed on the Whitewall Galleries website, although he has now been removed.
Whitewall Galleries has yet to respond to requests for a comment and it is not known whether the painting is in Whitewall's, or Harris's, possession.
Bell Pottinger, the PR firm hired to represent Harris during his trial, could not confirm whether the 84-year-old had the painting in his possession.
It is unclear how much the Queen portrait or any of Harris's other work is now worth. After being valued at PS50,000 on the BBC's Antiques Roadshow, a Harris painting of singer Bonnie Tyler failed to meet its PS25,000 reserve price with auctioneer John Taylors, in Louth, in 2012.
James Laverack, of John Taylors, said Harris was a "talented artist" but the value of his work would have "dropped considerably" since the abuse allegations first emerged.
"Prices started to rise when he did the Queen's portrait, and he became considered a serious artist rather than just a TV celebrity," says Laverack.
It will be hard to gauge the extent of the value drop until some of Harris's works next goes to auction, he added.
