Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

With Rolf Harris convicted, the silence around sexual abuse is being disturbed | Suzanne Moore | Comment is free | theguardian.com
Rolf Harris leaves court with his wife Alwen and his daughter Bindi after being found guilty of 12 indecent assault charges. 
Two of the women whose lives Rolf Harris had devastated propped him up as he left court, found guilty of 12 charges of indecent assault. His wife and his daughter are yet more collateral damage from his career as an abuser.
No more talk of touchy-feeliness please. No more excuses of "well it was a different era". No more coyness about groping and fondling that doesn't really mean anything.
Many wanted it not to mean anything because as viewers they had loved Harris, in all his various guises. Unlike Jimmy Savile or indeed Max Clifford, they were charmed by Rolf and his silliness. Though his nickname "the octopus" is somewhat telling, Uncle Rolf was not what he seemed.
While his daughter was asleep in the same room, he abused her best friend, a girl he had groomed since she was 13. The mea culpa he wrote admitting his relationship with his daughter's friend, though claiming it started when she was 18, had him still preoccupied with his own predicament: "I see the unconditional love that dogs give to their owners and I wish I could start to love myself again."
Each generation has their own Rolf. Young people for whom retro-irony is conflated with innocence loved Harris at Glastonbury and are disturbed by his guilt. So it needs to be spelt out again: the 70s were never an "innocent" time when boundaries were so blurred that pubescent girls were always fair game. Sex with children, sex with those too young to consent - they were wrong then too. When a teacher invited me to go camping for the weekend when I was 13, my mum went to my school, pushed him up against the wall and said: "If you want to interfere with her, you'll have to interfere with me first." I was mortified at the time.
Of course I was not so bold myself when regularly grabbed in the shop where I worked. To be a girl then was to be asking for it - even if wearing a grotty supermarket overall - and to be seen as a delusional fantasist who in fact enjoyed that attention of a powerful man. But at that age every man was a powerful man.
However, to cast these times as an era of darkness in which abuse was entirely unidentified is itself a form of denial. By the late 70s we had punk and feminist insurgents. We had a different version of what girls could be. We had John Lydon talking in 1978 of wanting to kill Savile for his seediness. A few women found their voices.
Now all these years later, broken victims rasp their pain while some wonder why elderly celebrities are subject to a witch-hunt. Fame does not provide diplomatic immunity against using the bodies and minds of children for sexual gratification. Victims did not speak up at the time because they felt they were nothing compared with these "great men" and because these men did indeed treat them as precisely nothing.
Sexual abuse did not start in 1973. Nor did it end there. Certain young girls and boys were viewed as disposable - they still are and their voices are on mute. The past is not a different country to the one we live in, which is why these cases matter. These prosecutions say to the victims, whose lives are shredded by abuse, that they did the right thing to speak up.
It is too late for them, but it may not be for those now being sexually assaulted. A collective innocence is not being destroyed, rather a collective silence is being disturbed by the barely audible weeping of 50-year-olds standing behind screens, as they remind us that abuse does not belong only to the past.
