Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

Rolf Harris guilty: Friend Cathy Henkel says speaking to victim Tonya Lee opened her eyes to entertainer's abuse
Updated July 02, 2014 04:59:44
A close friend of Rolf Harris who was called as a witness at his indecent assault trial has told 7.30 of how she became convinced the disgraced Australian entertainer had assaulted girls.
Film producer Cathy Henkel unintentionally introduced Harris to one of his victims in 1986 when she was in charge of an Australian theatre group that was touring the UK.
Ms Henkel, who befriended Harris after they met 40 years ago, says it was a big surprise for the children on the tour to have the opportunity to meet him.
It was during this meeting at a London pub that Harris indecently assaulted Tonya Lee, then 13, who said the entertainer put his hand up her skirt after having her sit on his lap.
Ms Lee testified as a witness at Harris's trial, where he was found guilty on 12 charges of indecent assault against four girls in between 1968 and 1986.
She told the court that after sitting on Harris's lap he followed her to the toilet and waited outside, only to assault her again.
"I felt very, very uncomfortable and very scared at that point ... I couldn't understand why he was trapping me there," she said.
Ms Henkel told 7.30 tonight that while Harris had "a very cuddly, flirty personality" she never thought it was inappropriate and "it didn't occur to her for a second" that he would assault children.
But she said that all changed when she spoke to Ms Lee about that night at the London pub.
"It did take me some time, but there was a moment when Tonya told me what had happened to her - I did believe her - and also another person that I know told me he'd done the same thing to them," she said.
"At this point, yes, all hope that it had somehow been a big mistake faded."
Ms Henkel said she remembered it being a "wonderful evening" and had no idea at the time that Harris had abused Ms Lee.
"It did not occur to me for one second that he had done anything inappropriate to Tonya.
"She was 13 at the time and was just not able to tell me, which I now understand. She was intimidated, she was scared, she was terrified her mother would find out.
"She was afraid no-one would believe her. I think the story is when somebody is that famous and that well known and she knew he was a friend of mine it is very very hard for a child to talk about that and confess."
Pressure from Harris's brother to deny allegations
Ms Henkel says she was contacted by Rolf's brother, Bruce, when the accusation by Ms Lee was first made.
She says she felt pressured by the entertainer's brother to say the indecent assault did not happen.
"He did badger me a little bit in the sense of asking me repeatedly 'It couldn't have happened, you must be able to say it couldn't have happened' - but I couldn't say that because the circumstances were there," she said.
"I didn't see it happen, but I couldn't say it didn't happen, so I did feel pressured about that and eventually I had to say 'Look, I'm sorry, I can't say it didn't happen."
Harris will be sentenced on Friday, and has been told to expect to face jail time. Each of his sentences carries a maximum sentence of two years.
British police have also confirmed they are looking into fresh allegations against the entertainer.

