Rolf Harris: Savile investigator admits disgraced Australian TV star could have watched patients undress during visit to Broadmoor Hospital - People - News - The Independent
The West London Mental Health NHS Trust confirmed to The Independent that Harris is understood to have visited the hospital in 1973 accompanied by Savile. A spokesperson for the Trust said the disgraced entertainer was escorted by staff at all times and there was no suggestion of inappropriate behaviour or incident during the visit.
In a statement, independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE said it was usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of "staff and others", and Harris may have seen patients undress.
The report found that Savile would watch female patients as they stripped and undressed while lined up in corridors in front of staff, a practice which was common until at least the late 1980s.
It states: "Until at least the late 1980s, female patients were obliged to strip completely to change into nightwear and to take baths, watched by staff. We conclude that Savile would sometimes attend wards at these times and watch."
However, there is no mention of other people outside of other patients, staff and Savile being able to see patients in a state of undress.
Independent investigator Dr Bill Kirkup CBE told The Independent: "The investigation team thoroughly examined the evidence of Rolf Harris's activities at Broadmoor Hospital when he visited the hospital once in 1973.
Video: Rolf Harris meets Jimmy Savile
"We heard evidence from staff and patients at the time that Harris was escorted by members of staff at all times during this visit. As the report identifies, it was, regrettably, usual practice then for female patients to have to undress in front of staff and others, and it is possible that Harris saw this. With that one exception, we found no evidence of any inappropriate behaviour during his visit.
"It is important to stress that Harris never had keys to Broadmoor Hospital nor was he given unrestricted access to patient wards as Jimmy Savile was. Harris visited the hospital only on that one occasion."
One ex-patient, Steven George, who attended Broadmoor before undergoing a sex change, claimed Harris turned up one evening "out of the blue" as patients were getting ready for bed - outside of the 10am to 4pm visiting hours.
George, born Alison Pink, said of the visit: "He was being shown around by Savile in an understated way. Normally stars only came if they were there for an official performance but Harris didn't do one.
"It was also unusual because visitors would come at visiting hours, between 10am and 4pm, but they came in as we were getting ready for bed."
Footage from 1992 shows Rolf Harris drawing a portrait of Jimmy Savile as the pair joke together at ITV West studios in Bristol. 	A spokesperson for the hospital said that "others' referred to staff, Savile and other patients, and said it could not confirm what time Harris visited the hospital. They said the investigation did not state the nature of his visit. They added: "If anyone has further evidence to give to the investigation, the team at Broadmoor Hospital can be contacted on 01344-754122."
The news comes as officers from Operation Yewtree, the national inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal, have said they will continue to investigate allegations as it emerged that a further 13 women had contacted the children's charity the NSPCC claiming they too were abused by Harris.

Entertainer Rolf Harris faces new allegations of abuse following convictions for sex charges
A
Veteran entertainer Rolf Harris, centre, accompanied by his wife Alwen, left, and daughter Bindi, right, leave the Southwark Crown Court in London, Monday, June 30, 2014. A jury Monday found Australian-born Harris guilty of 12 counts of indecent assault. The 84-year-old was convicted of indecent assault on four victims aged 19 or under between 1968 and 1986. Harris was a prominent British broadcaster for decades and once performed with the Beatles. He had denied the charges. (AP Photo/Lefteris Pitarakis)
LONDON - Australian-born TV entertainer Rolf Harris faces new allegations of sex abuse after being convicted of a string of indecent assaults on teenage girls.
Britain's National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children said Tuesday it had passed a number of new allegations to police for investigation. Abuse lawyer Richard Scorer said his firm has received up to a dozen new complaints against the celebrity broadcaster and entertainer, and police said they are looking into the latest claims.
Harris, 84, was found guilty on Monday of 12 counts of indecent assault, dating from the 1960s to the 1980s. Most of his victims, including one of his daughter's close friends, were minors at the time.
The conviction of the once-popular musician and artist follows investigations into historic sex abuse by a number of British celebrities, including BBC TV host Jimmy Savile who was a friend of Harris, and died in 2011.
Savile was found after his death to have molested hundreds of young victims, police said.
Those revelations prompted many victims to come forward and led to charges against other entertainment figures, including Harris, celebrity agent Max Clifford and broadcaster Stuart Hall.
"What we have discovered in the wake of the Jimmy Savile scandal is just how deep child abuse in institutions ran and how some people were seemingly allowed to continue their sickening crimes unchallenged," said Scorer.
Harris is set to be sentenced Friday. He has been told to expect a prison sentence.
He was long a prominent figure on British and Australian children's TV shows and is remembered for the novelty song "Tie Me Kangaroo Down, Sport."
