Rolf Harris guilty but could face new charges - ABC Newcastle NSW - Australian Broadcasting Corporation
But the Australian-born entertainer, who moved to England in 1952, could also face new charges as police investigate fresh allegations against him.
ABC Europe correspondent Barbara Miller told Jill Emberson from 1233 ABC Newcastle Mornings the new claims are very recent.
"We've heard today that police are confirming that fresh allegations have been made, and they're looking into them," she says.
"We understand that these are new allegations, whether those will ever come to court we just don't know.
"Very early days, it will depend on the strength of the allegations and potentially the willingness of witnesses to testify."
The ABC journalist says whether the new claims are pursued will also depend on what sentence 84-year-old Harris receives on Friday.
The judge made it clear Harris should expect to be sent to jail, and each count he's been convicted of carries a maximum penalty of two years.
Among many incidents of indecent assault described by witnesses at Harris's trial, was one that occurred at a hardware store in the Newcastle suburb of Hamilton.
A mother and daughter who attended an event at which the entertainer was present claimed he hugged the girl, then put his hands under her blouse and groped her.
The mother also said Harris rubbed himself against her when she posed for a photograph with him.
When she confronted him and called him a disgusting creature he sneered at her and, referring to her daughter, responded "she liked it".
The two Newcastle women were among six who testified about incidents that happened outside the UK and weren't among the charges against Harris, but formed part of "bad character" evidence.
The jury took eight days to deliver unanimous verdicts on all 12 counts of indecent asssault Harris was charged with, involving four girls in the UK between 1968 and 1986.
Barbara Miller says while last year there was still considerable support for Harris among his fans, with many refusing to believe the claims, that seems to have changed.
"We really didn't see many fans coming forward," she says.
When he took the stand during the trial Harris, who's always built his career around his Australian roots, talked about the didgeridoo and reminded the jury he invented the wobble board.
"They are all making it up", he told they jury, adamantly denying his guilt.
But the performer's previously squeaky-clean reputation is of no help to him now, with English newspapers greeting the verdict with headlines calling Harris a paedophile, sex abuser and condemning his "depravity".
The judge, who's asked to see Harris's latest medical records, said given the conviction on all 12 counts "it's inevitable that the type of sentence uppermost in the court's mind is a custodial sentence".
Harris's legal team now have 28 days to lodge an appeal.
A spokesman for the Harris family says no one, including his lawyers, will be making any public comment or doing interviews.
Harris was arrested in March last year on suspicion of sexual offences as part of Operation Yewtree, set up after revelations concerning the late BBC presenter, Jimmy Savile.
However Harris's crimes are not linked to those committed by Savile.
The main accuser was a childhood friend of his daughter, Bindi, who along with her mother Alwen broke down in tears when the guilty verdicts were read.
