Rolf Harris turned Australians' pride to shame | Comment is free | theguardian.com
The middle-aged memory can be fickle.
But for decades an image of Rolf Harris, captured in a circle of light on the otherwise pitch-black stage below us, remained an enduringly warm fixture in my recollection of childhood.
I was three or four when I sat up there beside my older sister and between my parents, in the front row of the upper stall of one of those elaborate deco theatres that defined Melbourne in the 1960s. And I, like the other kids in the audience, roared with laughter at Jake the Peg (with an extra leg) and sang along to the bits of Tie Me Kangaroo Down, Sport I'd picked up from Rolf on TV.
The guy was brilliant. With a lightning tongue and a magician's aura he knocked out a sketch of an audience member in a few moments, played the wobble board and danced and sang hilarious songs for us.
Happiness personified, he sent me into the night - and the decades to come - with a memory that I'd eventually share with my own children.
For my generation of Australians, born late in the era of Menzies and raised on early British and American pop culture, Rolf Harris became an enigmatic and captivating childhood cultural totem. A friendly wizard, he was easy for mums and dads to approve of because he lacked (or so they thought) the sexual danger exuded by the edgier pop stars of the day with whom he rubbed shoulders and sometimes shared stages.
And he was one of ours. Well, technically at least. In 1952 as a 22-year-old, Harris trailblazed what would become a busy route from Australia to London for generations of writers, journalists, artists and public intellectuals including Germaine Greer and Clive James.
But even as he aged, adapted, and won further British fame, he remained to us uniquely Australian - a daggy oddity with our accent whose success in the UK we quietly celebrated.
We celebrated, too, because he seemed so familiar to us. It's curious how unquestioningly we take into adulthood with us those who we trust so readily as children. And now that Harris - a weary and publicly humiliated 84-year-old - potentially faces jail for indecently assaulting four girls, this irony has never been more discomfortingly apparent.
Australia has followed the sordid details of the Harris case forensically. Even before he was named as a suspected perpetrator of the same sort of predatory sexual behavior that exposed the dark side of British light entertainment courtesy of the appalling Jimmy Savile, the rumours about Harris swept across the antipodes like a summer grassfire.
Then with the charges and subsequent trial came the many shocking Australian angles, as females from Harris's birthplace also aired stories of a man who misused his unique position of celebrity trust to pathologically abuse and scar legions of women and girls.
Even as we grew up and away from Rolf's naff public persona, Australians of my generation continued to quietly celebrate his evolution on British stage and TV. We nodded approvingly when he squeezed new cred from his cover of Stairway to Heaven (so bad it was good). Even some of the republicans among us indulged perverse delight that the folksy one time art student from Bassendean, Western Australia, became a Queen's portraitist.
Australians have always sought approval from outside, especially England. And I think there's little denying that even as we tired, as adults, of the Harris cheesiness, we were pleased that one of ours had somehow won that which had eluded so many other Australians - British respectability.
Harris was already the subject of a thousand dinner party and pub conversations across the country that begin with the exclamation "I saw Rolf Harris as a kid and I ..."
But now a sense of shame at his wicked acts is palpable in our media coverage of his evolution from Australian lad who conquered Britain to convicted sex offender.
For its part, Bassendean, where Harris grew up, is deliberating on whether to remove a statue of its most famous son. Jail time would be tough for such an old man. But nothing wounds the famous quite like such a public shaming.
I had my own Rolf Harris "awakening" in London about a decade ago. There he was, the man in the spotlight, standing just across the room at a function filled with other Australians. I asked a mutual acquaintance to introduce us.
I told Harris I'd been a great fan of his since I was a kid.
Most reluctantly he shook my hand. Then he said, rather diffidently: "Oh yes." And then he turned away.
Those of us who grew up with Rolf Harris inevitably will be indulging a sense of betrayal right now.
But mostly we should think of his victims' courage and pain now that the spotlight has finally captured the real him.
