For Tony Gwynn, ban tobacco in baseball
June 17, 2014 10:06PM
SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 14: Tony Gwynn #19 of the San Diego Padres bats during the 63rd MLB All-Star game against the American League at Jack Murphy Stadium on Tuesday, July 14, 1992 in San Diego, California. (Photo by MLB Photos via Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Tony Gwynn
storyidforme: 67953519
tmspicid: 24188334
fileheaderid: 11948890
Updated: June 18, 2014 2:19AM
The tobacco tin may be carefully stowed away, but when Major League Baseball players head out to the field there's no mistaking a cheek bulging with chaw.
In honor of Tony Gwynn, it's time to end the charade.
MLB players can honor Gwynn -- a Hall-of-Fame baseball player and long-time snuff user who died Monday at age 54 after battling salivary gland cancer -- by agreeing to ban all smokeless tobacco products on the field.
MLB currently requires players only to keep the tins out of sight during play and prohibits dipping or chewing during interviews.
What a joke.
To make a real impact -- to set an example for the millions of kids and young adults who watch professional baseball and idolize ball players -- the league should do everything it can to rid itself of this filthy and deadly habit.
After decades of smokeless tobacco use, Gwynn, a beloved player, was diagnosed with cancer on the right side of his face, the spot where for years he had tucked a dip of finely ground tobacco between his cheek and gum.
Gwynn was convinced that snuff was the culprit, sure that he was among the estimated 75 percent of people diagnosed with oral cancer at age 50 who have been tobacco users. In 2014, more than 43,000 people in the U.S. are expected to be diagnosed with oral cancer, the eighth year that the rate has increased for these particularly deadly cancers, according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
As an institution, baseball has taken steps to shed chewing tobacco from its deeply entrenched place in its culture. Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball and also in the minor leagues, though of course it's still used. Despite a decline in youth smokeless tobacco use from 1997 to 2003, 12.8 percent of U.S. high school boys were smokeless tobacco users in 2011 -- a 16 percent increase from 2003, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.
MLB sought to have it banned on the field in 2011, only to be thwarted by the players association. The compromise was to keep it out of view of fans and to prohibit teams from providing tobacco products to players, important steps but far from adequate.
Given chewing tobacco's larger than life place in baseball culture, a ban on the field seems the best next step.
No one expects everyone to successfully quit. This stuff is addictive. And no one expects no young player to take it up. A 1999 survey published in the Journal of Athletic Training found that nearly one-third of rookies in the major leagues were already regular smokeless tobacco users. More than two-thirds had tried smokeless tobacco. Adults make choices, good ones and poor ones, and that's their business.
But setting the tone from the top that chewing tobacco isn't welcome on major league ball fields can send a powerful message.
Gwynn got the ball rolling by speaking honestly about what he believed caused his illness.
"Gwynn did something very important; he said early on in his diagnosis that he'd used chewing tobacco and was 99 percent sure that's how he got it," said Brian Hill, founder of the Oral Cancer Foundation and an oral cancer survivor. "He was very open about it.
"When our heroes show us they're vulnerable," Hill predicted, "they change the world."
In Gwynn's honor, we can only hope.

Gwynn's chewing tobacco death renews calls to ban it from baseball | Nation & World | The Seattle Times
The death of Hall-of-Fame baseball player Tony Gwynn from mouth cancer renewed calls to end the use of chewing tobacco from its traditional place in the game.
Gwynn, 54, died June 16 after two surgeries to remove malignant growths inside his right cheek, where the former San Diego Padre said he chewed tobacco while he played. He was one of more than 40,000 people diagnosed with oral cancer yearly in the U.S., according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
Only a little more than half of these patients will be alive in five years, U.S. health officials say, mostly because oral cancers are usually discovered only after they've spread to another location, such as the lymph nodes in the neck. It's estimated that at least 75 percent of those diagnosed with oral cancer at 50 have been tobacco users.
"We've decreased the rate of smoking tobacco but not the rates of chewing tobacco." said Mark Agulnik, an oncologist at Northwestern University's Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center in Chicago. "Cancers that form are just as aggressive in the smokeless tobacco as in smoked tobacco."
Joe Garagiola, a former major-league catcher and broadcaster who for decades has been an advocate against the use of smokeless tobacco, said the strongest steps should be taken to rid the game of the product.
"Smokeless is not harmless," Garagiola said.
While baseball prohibits the use of chewing tobacco within the view of fans, Garagiola wants a complete ban of what he calls "spit tobacco."
"The player's association has to vote on it," he said in a telephone interview yesterday. "I just wish that they would take a more serious look at it and don't wait for good people to die, good guys like Tony Gwynn. That's a big loss for baseball."
Gwynn, who spent his entire two-decade career with the San Diego Padres team, was an eight-time National League batting champion and was named to the All-Star team 15 times. He was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2007, his first year of eligibility, with 97.6 percent of the vote. Gwynn was on leave from his position as head baseball coach of San Diego State University, where he starred as a two-sport athlete, when he died.
"He suffered a lot. He battled," Gwynn's agent, John Boggs, told the Associated Press. "That's probably the best way I can describe his fight against this illness he had, and he was courageous until the end."
Gregory Connolly, a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston who has worked to get chewing tobacco out of baseball for about 30 years, says Gwynn's loss may be a harbinger of future disease.
"Even though we see few reports of deaths now, the form of chewing tobacco that he took up is relatively recent in our country," Connolly said. Use of chewing tobacco began to increase among younger people in the 1980s. He said use of smokeless tobacco has increased in the past several years.
As a result, the number of people in their 50s, like Gwynn, being diagnosed with the disease later in life is on the rise, according to Connolly. "We do know your risk factor greatly increases with age," he said. "It's devastating. The 5-year mortality rate is 50 percent, and if you don't die, you're left totally disfigured."
Connolly said he would like the federal government to "come up to the plate" in helping fight the use of smokeless tobacco. He urged that chewing tobacco be regulated similarly to other forms of the drug, with aggressive warning labels and a ban on flavored forms.
By regulating cigarettes and not smokeless tobacco, it "just transfers cancer from the lung to the mouth, and people walk around crippled from those deformities," he said.
The U.S. National Institutes of Health has called smokeless tobacco one of the fastest growing detrimental health habits in North America as "sports figures promote the product in an attempt to erase the old, unsanitary image of the habit and replace it with a macho image."
Athletes, military personnel and people who find it difficult to smoke in their businesses tend to switch to smokeless tobacco, said Pamela Clark, a research professor at the department of behavioral and community health at the University of Maryland College Park. Clark is doing research work for the Food and Drug Administration on the use of smokeless tobacco. She also said men and people who live in rural areas are more likely to chew tobacco.
Smokeless tobacco composes about 10 percent of sales for Altria Group Inc., the largest seller of tobacco in the U.S.. The company saw a 5 percent sales rise in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Altria Group representatives didn't return calls or e-mails for comment.
