For Tony Gwynn, ban tobacco in baseball
June 17, 2014 10:06PM
SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 14: Tony Gwynn #19 of the San Diego Padres bats during the 63rd MLB All-Star game against the American League at Jack Murphy Stadium on Tuesday, July 14, 1992 in San Diego, California. (Photo by MLB Photos via Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Tony Gwynn
storyidforme: 67953519
tmspicid: 24188334
fileheaderid: 11948890
Updated: June 18, 2014 2:19AM
The tobacco tin may be carefully stowed away, but when Major League Baseball players head out to the field there's no mistaking a cheek bulging with chaw.
In honor of Tony Gwynn, it's time to end the charade.
MLB players can honor Gwynn -- a Hall-of-Fame baseball player and long-time snuff user who died Monday at age 54 after battling salivary gland cancer -- by agreeing to ban all smokeless tobacco products on the field.
MLB currently requires players only to keep the tins out of sight during play and prohibits dipping or chewing during interviews.
What a joke.
To make a real impact -- to set an example for the millions of kids and young adults who watch professional baseball and idolize ball players -- the league should do everything it can to rid itself of this filthy and deadly habit.
After decades of smokeless tobacco use, Gwynn, a beloved player, was diagnosed with cancer on the right side of his face, the spot where for years he had tucked a dip of finely ground tobacco between his cheek and gum.
Gwynn was convinced that snuff was the culprit, sure that he was among the estimated 75 percent of people diagnosed with oral cancer at age 50 who have been tobacco users. In 2014, more than 43,000 people in the U.S. are expected to be diagnosed with oral cancer, the eighth year that the rate has increased for these particularly deadly cancers, according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
As an institution, baseball has taken steps to shed chewing tobacco from its deeply entrenched place in its culture. Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball and also in the minor leagues, though of course it's still used. Despite a decline in youth smokeless tobacco use from 1997 to 2003, 12.8 percent of U.S. high school boys were smokeless tobacco users in 2011 -- a 16 percent increase from 2003, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.
MLB sought to have it banned on the field in 2011, only to be thwarted by the players association. The compromise was to keep it out of view of fans and to prohibit teams from providing tobacco products to players, important steps but far from adequate.
Given chewing tobacco's larger than life place in baseball culture, a ban on the field seems the best next step.
No one expects everyone to successfully quit. This stuff is addictive. And no one expects no young player to take it up. A 1999 survey published in the Journal of Athletic Training found that nearly one-third of rookies in the major leagues were already regular smokeless tobacco users. More than two-thirds had tried smokeless tobacco. Adults make choices, good ones and poor ones, and that's their business.
But setting the tone from the top that chewing tobacco isn't welcome on major league ball fields can send a powerful message.
Gwynn got the ball rolling by speaking honestly about what he believed caused his illness.
"Gwynn did something very important; he said early on in his diagnosis that he'd used chewing tobacco and was 99 percent sure that's how he got it," said Brian Hill, founder of the Oral Cancer Foundation and an oral cancer survivor. "He was very open about it.
"When our heroes show us they're vulnerable," Hill predicted, "they change the world."
In Gwynn's honor, we can only hope.

Updated JUN 16, 2014 8:51p ET
Shortly after learning of Tony Gwynn's passing, former major leaguer Michael Young sent me a text message:
"Ted Williams gets to talk hitting again," Young said.
Gwynn was one of the hitters that Williams most respected, one of the few who could speak to Teddy Ballgame at his level, even though they were completely different.
With Gwynn, who died Monday at 54, it's almost impossible to know where to begin. He was one of the best hitters many of us ever saw. The amazing part, he was an even better guy.
I could rattle off one Gwynn statistic after another - the eight batting titles, the .338 lifetime batting average, the fact that he never struck out more than 40 times in a season.
And yet, what I will remember most about Gwynn is not his ability to shoot balls through the 5-6 hole like a metronome, but the joy in his disposition, the warmth of his smile.
He was a dream for reporters, always accessible, always accountable (not that he needed to account for much other than getting, say, two hits in a game instead of three).
In fact, he was such a dream for us that other superstars, even gracious ones, suffered by comparison. Didn't matter if you were from a tiny paper or a large one, Gwynn treated you with respect and kindness. Best of all, he could fill a notebook like no other, radiating his love for the game, offering rare insight.
He won the 1999 Roberto Clemente Award for his community work. He repeatedly chose to stay in San Diego when he could have become a free agent and made millions more in a larger market. He was one of those rare people who you were always happy to see, in part because he was always happy to see you.
And with a bat in his hands, my goodness.
Former major-league pitcher Joe Magrane put it best on MLB Network, saying Gwynn was a virtuoso and that his bat was his Stradivarius.
Magrane, who actually held Gwynn to a .289 career average in their 38 left-on-left confrontations, said he once tried to get inside Gwynn's head by asking him if he ever hit the ball right at someone.
"No," Gwynn said, laughing. "Never!"
Al Leiter, another former major-league lefty, said that the idea of consulting scouting reports in an effort to combat Gwynn was "almost comical," a complete waste of time.
Gwynn was 10-for-22 against Leiter with four extra-base hits, a cool .455 batting average and .727 slugging percentage. The problem with facing Gwynn, Leiter said, was that he had such tremendous balance and plate coverage, "he was never fooled."
Part of that stemmed from Gwynn's preparation -- he was perhaps the first player to make extensive use of video, a practice that is commonplace today. Indeed, his page at baseball-reference.com lists two nicknames, "Mr Padre" and "Captain Video."
People forget -- Gwynn played basketball at San Diego State before turning full-time to baseball. He had to work to become a better baserunner and defender, and he did, finishing with 319 career stolen bases, including a career-high 56 in 1987, and five Gold Gloves.
Gwynn, especially in his early years, was a complete player. But of course, his hitting defined him. Wouldn't you have loved to see teams try to shift against him the way they do against so many left-handed hitters today? Actually, they wouldn't have bothered, knowing they would have been putty in Gwynn's estimable hands.
Come to think of it, the approach of many hitters today is so poor that Gwynn seems like even more of an anomaly. Dave Cameron of Fangraphs said in a tweet that Ichiro is "probably the closest thing we had to Tony Gwynn 2.0" -- and that Ichiro struck out twice as often.
In 1995, Gwynn struck out 15 times in 577 plate appearances. Josh Donaldson, one of the better players in the game today, has struck out 15 times in his past 14 games.
Gwynn was the best -- the best hitter, the best person, the best everything. I hear his laughter as I write this, his unmistakable, high-pitched voice. And sad as this day is, I can't help but smile.
