For Tony Gwynn, ban tobacco in baseball
June 17, 2014 10:06PM
SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 14: Tony Gwynn #19 of the San Diego Padres bats during the 63rd MLB All-Star game against the American League at Jack Murphy Stadium on Tuesday, July 14, 1992 in San Diego, California. (Photo by MLB Photos via Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Tony Gwynn
storyidforme: 67953519
tmspicid: 24188334
fileheaderid: 11948890
Updated: June 18, 2014 2:19AM
The tobacco tin may be carefully stowed away, but when Major League Baseball players head out to the field there's no mistaking a cheek bulging with chaw.
In honor of Tony Gwynn, it's time to end the charade.
MLB players can honor Gwynn -- a Hall-of-Fame baseball player and long-time snuff user who died Monday at age 54 after battling salivary gland cancer -- by agreeing to ban all smokeless tobacco products on the field.
MLB currently requires players only to keep the tins out of sight during play and prohibits dipping or chewing during interviews.
What a joke.
To make a real impact -- to set an example for the millions of kids and young adults who watch professional baseball and idolize ball players -- the league should do everything it can to rid itself of this filthy and deadly habit.
After decades of smokeless tobacco use, Gwynn, a beloved player, was diagnosed with cancer on the right side of his face, the spot where for years he had tucked a dip of finely ground tobacco between his cheek and gum.
Gwynn was convinced that snuff was the culprit, sure that he was among the estimated 75 percent of people diagnosed with oral cancer at age 50 who have been tobacco users. In 2014, more than 43,000 people in the U.S. are expected to be diagnosed with oral cancer, the eighth year that the rate has increased for these particularly deadly cancers, according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
As an institution, baseball has taken steps to shed chewing tobacco from its deeply entrenched place in its culture. Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball and also in the minor leagues, though of course it's still used. Despite a decline in youth smokeless tobacco use from 1997 to 2003, 12.8 percent of U.S. high school boys were smokeless tobacco users in 2011 -- a 16 percent increase from 2003, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.
MLB sought to have it banned on the field in 2011, only to be thwarted by the players association. The compromise was to keep it out of view of fans and to prohibit teams from providing tobacco products to players, important steps but far from adequate.
Given chewing tobacco's larger than life place in baseball culture, a ban on the field seems the best next step.
No one expects everyone to successfully quit. This stuff is addictive. And no one expects no young player to take it up. A 1999 survey published in the Journal of Athletic Training found that nearly one-third of rookies in the major leagues were already regular smokeless tobacco users. More than two-thirds had tried smokeless tobacco. Adults make choices, good ones and poor ones, and that's their business.
But setting the tone from the top that chewing tobacco isn't welcome on major league ball fields can send a powerful message.
Gwynn got the ball rolling by speaking honestly about what he believed caused his illness.
"Gwynn did something very important; he said early on in his diagnosis that he'd used chewing tobacco and was 99 percent sure that's how he got it," said Brian Hill, founder of the Oral Cancer Foundation and an oral cancer survivor. "He was very open about it.
"When our heroes show us they're vulnerable," Hill predicted, "they change the world."
In Gwynn's honor, we can only hope.

What a sad day as Tony Gwynn leaves us too soon - baltimoresun.com
Other than that sweet swing and the 3,141 hits, the thing that stood out the most about Tony Gwynn was the 1000-watt smile that shined on everyone he met and seemed to be right for every occasion.
If Gwynn, who died from cancer Monday at age 54, appeared to be the world's nicest human whenever he showed up on ESPN's SportsCenter or at some local charity event, then there really is truth in advertising because he was the real deal both on the field and off it.
Of course, he was one of the greatest all-time hitters and, if you needed a testimonial to that, you could have asked Ted Williams before he died in 2002. He was a big fan of Gwynn's, as was Cal Ripken Jr., whose heartfelt statement Monday simply confirmed what anybody who ever met Gwynn already knew.
"Tony was a Hall of Fame ballplayer but more importantly he was a wonderful man," Ripken said in the statement. "Tony always had a big smile on his face and was one of the warmest and most genuine people I have ever had the honor of knowing."
The first time I ever encountered Gwynn in person was back in 1985 during baseball's winter meetings in San Diego. He had just completed his fourth season in the major leagues and already was a major star, but he volunteered to umpire the annual media softball game and made it a memorable event just by showing up and giving the clumsy baseball writers a dose of their own medicine.
He was always promoting the city where he starred in both basketball and baseball at San Diego State University, went to Cooperstown, N.Y., in a Padres uniform and most recently was the coach of the Aztecs before taking a leave of absence to undergo treatment for the cancer that would steal him from us.
He just seemed to radiate positive energy, and he never complained during the lean years when he was Mr. Padre for a franchise that went 12 seasons between playoff appearances after he played in the World Series in his first full major league season in 1984.
My favorite memory of Gwynn was traveling up to Philadelphia periodically to interview him when I was The Baltimore Sun's national baseball writer in the late 1990s. The national guys would walk in when the visitors' clubhouse opened at Veterans Stadium and scan the room ... but Tony was always too quick for us.
"I'm over here," he'd say cheerfully, even though he had to be the team spokesman on every road stop.
It seemed so appropriate when he was inducted into the Hall of Fame the same year as Ripken. When they stood on the stage together in front of that record crowd at the Clark Sports Center in Cooperstown, they made everybody forget the steroid scandal that was diminishing the national pastime and helped us all remember why it became the national pastime in the first place.
They both were near-unanimous choices in the Baseball Writers' Association of America Hall of Fame election, but that was no surprise. They were also the people's choice because they were both so accessible to the fans throughout their careers.
Gwynn's passing has left a big hole in the heart of the game he loved.
What a sad day.
