For Tony Gwynn, ban tobacco in baseball
June 17, 2014 10:06PM
SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 14: Tony Gwynn #19 of the San Diego Padres bats during the 63rd MLB All-Star game against the American League at Jack Murphy Stadium on Tuesday, July 14, 1992 in San Diego, California. (Photo by MLB Photos via Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Tony Gwynn
storyidforme: 67953519
tmspicid: 24188334
fileheaderid: 11948890
Updated: June 18, 2014 2:19AM
The tobacco tin may be carefully stowed away, but when Major League Baseball players head out to the field there's no mistaking a cheek bulging with chaw.
In honor of Tony Gwynn, it's time to end the charade.
MLB players can honor Gwynn -- a Hall-of-Fame baseball player and long-time snuff user who died Monday at age 54 after battling salivary gland cancer -- by agreeing to ban all smokeless tobacco products on the field.
MLB currently requires players only to keep the tins out of sight during play and prohibits dipping or chewing during interviews.
What a joke.
To make a real impact -- to set an example for the millions of kids and young adults who watch professional baseball and idolize ball players -- the league should do everything it can to rid itself of this filthy and deadly habit.
After decades of smokeless tobacco use, Gwynn, a beloved player, was diagnosed with cancer on the right side of his face, the spot where for years he had tucked a dip of finely ground tobacco between his cheek and gum.
Gwynn was convinced that snuff was the culprit, sure that he was among the estimated 75 percent of people diagnosed with oral cancer at age 50 who have been tobacco users. In 2014, more than 43,000 people in the U.S. are expected to be diagnosed with oral cancer, the eighth year that the rate has increased for these particularly deadly cancers, according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
As an institution, baseball has taken steps to shed chewing tobacco from its deeply entrenched place in its culture. Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball and also in the minor leagues, though of course it's still used. Despite a decline in youth smokeless tobacco use from 1997 to 2003, 12.8 percent of U.S. high school boys were smokeless tobacco users in 2011 -- a 16 percent increase from 2003, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.
MLB sought to have it banned on the field in 2011, only to be thwarted by the players association. The compromise was to keep it out of view of fans and to prohibit teams from providing tobacco products to players, important steps but far from adequate.
Given chewing tobacco's larger than life place in baseball culture, a ban on the field seems the best next step.
No one expects everyone to successfully quit. This stuff is addictive. And no one expects no young player to take it up. A 1999 survey published in the Journal of Athletic Training found that nearly one-third of rookies in the major leagues were already regular smokeless tobacco users. More than two-thirds had tried smokeless tobacco. Adults make choices, good ones and poor ones, and that's their business.
But setting the tone from the top that chewing tobacco isn't welcome on major league ball fields can send a powerful message.
Gwynn got the ball rolling by speaking honestly about what he believed caused his illness.
"Gwynn did something very important; he said early on in his diagnosis that he'd used chewing tobacco and was 99 percent sure that's how he got it," said Brian Hill, founder of the Oral Cancer Foundation and an oral cancer survivor. "He was very open about it.
"When our heroes show us they're vulnerable," Hill predicted, "they change the world."
In Gwynn's honor, we can only hope.

Recap: Padres 4, Mariners 1 - chicagotribune.com
Reuters 	8:37 p.m. CDT, June 19, 2014
SportsDirect Inc.
Recap: Padres 4, Mariners 1
Padres 4, Mariners 1: Everth Cabrera capped a four-run seventh inning with a two-RBI single as host San Diego earned a split of the four-game, home-and-home interleague series.
Making his third career start, rookie Jesse Hahn (2-1) struck out seven and allowed an unearned run and five hits over seven innings and Huston Street worked around two hits in the ninth to record his 20th save. Cameron Maybin went 2-for-3 with an RBI triple and scored a run as San Diego won back-to-back games for the first time this month.
Robinson Cano collected three hits and drove in the lone run for Seattle, which had won its previous eight day games. The Mariners wasted a superb effort by Erasmo Ramirez, who allowed two hits over six scoreless innings before Dominic Leone (2-1) was lit up for four runs in one-third of an inning.
Seattle broke the scoreless deadlock in the fifth as Brad Miller drew a leadoff walk and was safe at second base when Cabrera dropped a ball on an attempted force play. After James Jones struck out, Cano delivered a two-out single to right-center to plate Miller.
Leone replaced Ramirez to start the seventh and gave up back-to-back triples to Tommy Medica and Maybin, who scored the go-ahead run on Chris Denorfia's single to center. Cabrera provided a pair of insurance runs with a two-out single to center to make it 4-1.
GAME NOTEBOOK: Cano extended his road hitting streak to 20 games, the longest span in the majors. ... The Padres placed 1B Yonder Alonso on the 15-day disabled list Thursday after an MRI exam revealed tendinitis in his right wrist and promoted 1B/OF Jake Goebbert from Triple-A Iowa. ... San Diego continues its five-game homestand Friday with the first of three contests against the Los Angeles Dodgers while Seattle heads to Kansas City for a three-game set.
