Bosh, Wade and Deng help Heat rebound from LeBron return to Cleveland | Hunter Felt | Sport | theguardian.com
It didn't take long for the Miami Heat to rebound. On Friday night, hours after LeBron James confirmed he was leaving to return to the Cleveland Cavaliers, the Heat re-signed forward Chris Bosh to a contract of five years and $118m. A few days later, they completed a deal to re-sign a self-proclaimed Heat lifer. Dwyane Wade announced it on Instagram.
While the loss of James means they may no longer be the odds-on favorites to win the NBA Finals, as they have been in recent seasons, re-signing two of the Big Three and adding Luol Deng ensures that the Heat will at least be a playoff threat in the Eastern Conference.
Because of the size and timing of Bosh's new contract, it felt like something of a panic move, one the Heat could regret around years four and five when Bosh will be far from his peak. Consider this factoid:
With a $20.64M first-year salary, next season Chris Bosh will earn more than Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili & Kawhi Leonard COMBINED (!!)
-- Numbers Never Lie (@ESPN_Numbers) July 11, 2014
It is, however, hard not to be happy for Bosh. He began his career as the face of the Toronto Raptors. When he became a free agent for the first time, in 2010, he could have demanded a lucrative contract from several teams. Instead, he was willing to take a pay cut to join the Heat and become the third option behind James and Wade, sacrificing his individual stats for the potential to win championships.
With this in mind, his new deal feels like Miami paying for past results, rewarding Bosh for his often overlooked contributions during the Heat's four-season reign on top of the East. Although one assumes Bosh would have preferred to have James alongside him, this is an opportunity to quash his "sidekick's sidekick" reputation. Unless Heat president Pat Riley pulls off some sort of miracle, which he has done in the past, it looks like Bosh will be the team's best player in the upcoming season.
Riley wasn't bidding against himself. Reportedly, the Houston Rockets were also willing to offer Bosh a maximum contrac, hoping they could create a West Coast Big Three of their own by teaming him up with center Dwight Howard and scorer James Harden. Houston even made moves to clear up the necessary cap space, sending Jeremy Lin to the Los Angeles Lakers and trading Omer Asik to the New Orleans Pelicans. With Bosh off the market, the Rockets ended up settling on Trevor Ariza as their big-time free agent, a somewhat deflating turn of events for the Houston front office.
With Bosh back in the fold, it was all but inevitable that Miami would re-sign Wade, who also opted out of his contract earlier in the offseason. Wade, who gathered interest from the Chicago Bulls, has played his entire pro career for Miami, and was NBA Finals MVP when the Heat won their first championship, in 2006. He would be far more valuable to the Heat than to any other franchise, and both sides knew it. Wade reportedly signed a two-year and $31.1m deal, taking a fairly significant cut.
The Heat did not stand pat after locking up Bosh and Wade. On Tuesday they finalized a two-year, $20m contract with Great Britain's Luol Deng, formerly of the Bulls and Cavaliers, who will now presumably be the team's third option. While Bosh, Wade and Deng may not be a Big Three, at the very least they will be make up a Somewhat Substantial Three. The Heat also brought back struggling point guard Mario Chalmers, straight off one of the worst performances in NBA Finals history, along with Chris "Birdman" Andersen.
Great Britain's Luol Deng in action for the Chicago Bulls.
Most of these players would not be returning to Miami if the Heat had committed to a full rebuilding, like the Boston Celtics are doing and like what the Lakers really ought to be doing. The Bosh signing partly acted as a notice to the rest of the league that Miami won't be tanking for draft picks any time soon. The Heat may not be a championship-caliber team without LeBron James, but Riley and the front office clearly believe they can still be competitive.
None of these moves were exactly big splashes, but there may not have been a big splash that the Heat could have made once James left, especially considering how much money and cap space they have committed to Bosh. It's not a disastrous haul by any means, but these moves make it clear that without the best player on the planet, the Heat are no longer the NBA's marquee team. They are just a very good one. Welcome to the NBA's new normal.

National Basketball Association roundup | Reuters
(Reuters) - Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh and Udonis Haslem are returning to the Heat, even if LeBron James will not, and Luol Deng will join them in Miami.
The Heat re-signed Wade to a multi-year contract on Tuesday. The 32-year-old All-Star guard will make at least $15 million per season, ESPN reported.
Riley touted the addition of Deng as "one of the most important free agent signings that we have ever had in the history of the franchise." The Heat did not disclose contract terms, but previous reports put the deal at two years and $20 million.
Haslam agreed to a two-year deal worth $5.6 million, according to the South Florida Sun Sentinel.
The Heat also announced the signing of forward James Ennis. Acquired in a trade during the 2013 NBA Draft, Ennis spent last season playing in Australia.
The Houston Rockets signed Joey Dorsey to a two-year, $2 million contract to replace Omer Aski as center Dwight Howard's backup, according to Yahoo Sports' Adrian Wojnarowski.
The Rockets also reached an agreement on a one-year contract with former Milwaukee Bucks forward Jeff Adrien for the veteran minimum, the Houston Chronicle reported Tuesday.
Dorsey, 30, has not played in the NBA since 2011. In parts of three NBA seasons, he averaged 2.6 points and 3.8 rebounds in 61 career games.
Adrien was traded to the Bucks from Charlotte in February and proved productive in Milwaukee during the remainder of the 2013-14 season, averaging 10.9 points and 7.8 rebounds per game. In 53 games between the two teams last season, he averaged 6.8 points and 5.8 rebounds.
The Memphis Grizzlies re-signed guard Beno Udrih to a multi-year contract on Tuesday.
The team did not disclose financial terms of the deal. Udrih averaged 4.9 points, 1.4 rebounds and 2.8 assists in 41 games for the New York Knicks and the Grizzlies last season.
Free-agent forward Kris Humphries is headed to the Washington Wizards after reaching agreement on a three-year, $13 million deal, Yahoo Sports reported Tuesday.
The Wizards were in the process of completing a sign-and-trade deal with the Boston Celtics that allows Humphries to come in below the team's salary cap, according to the Yahoo report.
The Dallas Mavericks confirmed Tuesday that All-Star forward Dirk Nowitzki and forward Chandler Parsons signed contracts with the team.
The Mavs did not release details, but Nowitzki's deal was believed to be three years and $25 million, according to multiple reports.
Parsons, a restricted free agent, signed a three-year, $46 million offer sheet with the Mavericks last Thursday that the Houston Rockets declined to match.
The 36-year-old Nowitzki has played all 16 of his NBA seasons with Dallas, leading the Mavs to the 2011 title.
Parsons spent three seasons with the Rockets and averaged 14.1 points, 5.2 rebounds, 3.3 assists and 1.1 steals in 213 games, including 207 starts.
The Chicago Bulls decided Tuesday to use the amnesty clause with Carlos Boozer that could allow the veteran forward to go to the highest bidder.
The move was expected after the Bulls signed free-agent forward Pau Gasol last weekend. The amnesty provision allows the Bulls to pay Boozer next season without counting against their salary cap. He is scheduled to make $16.8 million in 2014-15.
In four seasons with the Bulls, Boozer started 280 games and averaged 15.5 points, 9.0 rebounds and 2.0 assists.
Swingman Thabo Sefolosha officially joined the Hawks on Tuesday when Atlanta completed a sign-and-trade deal with the Oklahoma City Thunder.
Atlanta sent Oklahoma City the draft rights to power forward Sofoklis Schortsanitis, and the Hawks received Sefolosha and the draft rights to Giorgos Printezis.
Sefolosha, who averaged 6.3 points and 3.6 rebounds last season, and the Hawks previously reached agreement on a three-year, $12 million contract, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
When LeBron James announced Friday he was returning to Cleveland, it was widely speculated that free agent Mike Miller would follow. The former Miami Heat teammates are now together again after Miller agreed to a reported two-year, $5.5 million deal with the Cavaliers.
ESPN reported that Miller turned down a three-year, $12 million deal from the Denver Nuggets and an offer from the Houston Rockets to take the Cavs' less lucrative offer.
The Oklahoma City Thunder signed free agent point guard Sebastian Telfair. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
The team also agreed to a multi-year deal with forward Grant Jerrett, according to Real GM.
Telfair, 29, spent last season playing for Tianjin Ronggang in China, where he averaged 26.1 points, 6.0 assists and 2.0 steals.
The 29-year-old has averaged 7.4 points, 3.5 assists and 1.6 rebounds during nine seasons with Portland, Boston, Minnesota, the Los Angeles Clippers, Cleveland, Phoenix and Toronto.
The Bulls are set to trade Anthony Randolph to the Orlando Magic along with two second-round picks in exchange for the rights to Milovan Rakovic, according to USA Today.
The trade amounts to further clearing of salary cap space for the Bulls.
Rakovic of Serbia is not expected to join the NBA, but including him in the deal satisfies the NBA requirement that each team receives something in a trade.
The Phoenix Suns announced guard Ishmael Smith was waived. Acquired from the Milwaukee Bucks last offseason, Smith averaged 3.7 points, 2.6 assists and 1.8 rebounds in 70 games.
(Editing by Larry Fine)
