Bosh, Wade and Deng help Heat rebound from LeBron return to Cleveland | Hunter Felt | Sport | theguardian.com
It didn't take long for the Miami Heat to rebound. On Friday night, hours after LeBron James confirmed he was leaving to return to the Cleveland Cavaliers, the Heat re-signed forward Chris Bosh to a contract of five years and $118m. A few days later, they completed a deal to re-sign a self-proclaimed Heat lifer. Dwyane Wade announced it on Instagram.
While the loss of James means they may no longer be the odds-on favorites to win the NBA Finals, as they have been in recent seasons, re-signing two of the Big Three and adding Luol Deng ensures that the Heat will at least be a playoff threat in the Eastern Conference.
Because of the size and timing of Bosh's new contract, it felt like something of a panic move, one the Heat could regret around years four and five when Bosh will be far from his peak. Consider this factoid:
With a $20.64M first-year salary, next season Chris Bosh will earn more than Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili & Kawhi Leonard COMBINED (!!)
-- Numbers Never Lie (@ESPN_Numbers) July 11, 2014
It is, however, hard not to be happy for Bosh. He began his career as the face of the Toronto Raptors. When he became a free agent for the first time, in 2010, he could have demanded a lucrative contract from several teams. Instead, he was willing to take a pay cut to join the Heat and become the third option behind James and Wade, sacrificing his individual stats for the potential to win championships.
With this in mind, his new deal feels like Miami paying for past results, rewarding Bosh for his often overlooked contributions during the Heat's four-season reign on top of the East. Although one assumes Bosh would have preferred to have James alongside him, this is an opportunity to quash his "sidekick's sidekick" reputation. Unless Heat president Pat Riley pulls off some sort of miracle, which he has done in the past, it looks like Bosh will be the team's best player in the upcoming season.
Riley wasn't bidding against himself. Reportedly, the Houston Rockets were also willing to offer Bosh a maximum contrac, hoping they could create a West Coast Big Three of their own by teaming him up with center Dwight Howard and scorer James Harden. Houston even made moves to clear up the necessary cap space, sending Jeremy Lin to the Los Angeles Lakers and trading Omer Asik to the New Orleans Pelicans. With Bosh off the market, the Rockets ended up settling on Trevor Ariza as their big-time free agent, a somewhat deflating turn of events for the Houston front office.
With Bosh back in the fold, it was all but inevitable that Miami would re-sign Wade, who also opted out of his contract earlier in the offseason. Wade, who gathered interest from the Chicago Bulls, has played his entire pro career for Miami, and was NBA Finals MVP when the Heat won their first championship, in 2006. He would be far more valuable to the Heat than to any other franchise, and both sides knew it. Wade reportedly signed a two-year and $31.1m deal, taking a fairly significant cut.
The Heat did not stand pat after locking up Bosh and Wade. On Tuesday they finalized a two-year, $20m contract with Great Britain's Luol Deng, formerly of the Bulls and Cavaliers, who will now presumably be the team's third option. While Bosh, Wade and Deng may not be a Big Three, at the very least they will be make up a Somewhat Substantial Three. The Heat also brought back struggling point guard Mario Chalmers, straight off one of the worst performances in NBA Finals history, along with Chris "Birdman" Andersen.
Great Britain's Luol Deng in action for the Chicago Bulls.
Most of these players would not be returning to Miami if the Heat had committed to a full rebuilding, like the Boston Celtics are doing and like what the Lakers really ought to be doing. The Bosh signing partly acted as a notice to the rest of the league that Miami won't be tanking for draft picks any time soon. The Heat may not be a championship-caliber team without LeBron James, but Riley and the front office clearly believe they can still be competitive.
None of these moves were exactly big splashes, but there may not have been a big splash that the Heat could have made once James left, especially considering how much money and cap space they have committed to Bosh. It's not a disastrous haul by any means, but these moves make it clear that without the best player on the planet, the Heat are no longer the NBA's marquee team. They are just a very good one. Welcome to the NBA's new normal.

Dwyane Wade picked to stay at Miami Heat
Dwyane Wade seems set to stay on with the Miami Heat as the face of the franchise after issuing a cryptic social media message as the NBA team rebuilds after losing free agent LeBron James last week.
''Home Is Where The Heart Is... My Home,My City,My House..HeatLifer,'' Wade posted on Instagram.
Multiple media outlets quickly confirmed through sources that he had agreed to sign with Miami although there was not yet official confirmation.
The news was not unexpected as Miami's front office tried to reconstruct a team that made four successive trips to the NBA Finals and won two titles before James' decision to return to the Cleveland Cavaliers following four seasons with the Heat.
Wade was part of the so-called 'Big Three' with James and forward Chris Bosh, who also has re-signed a massive deal to stay in Miami.
The Heat have also added free agent small forward Luol Deng as part of their rebuilding.
Wade, 32, has played his entire career in Miami since being drafted in 2003, winning three NBA titles and averaging more than 24 points per game during the regular season.
But he was hampered by a knee issue during the 2013-14 season, missing 28 games in a move designed to keep him healthy for the playoffs.
The Heat won the Eastern Conference title before falling decisively in five games to the San Antonio Spurs in the championship series.
Wade had invoked an early termination option after four years of a six-year deal worth US$108 million (NZ$123m), opting for free agency to free up money for the team as it sought to improve the roster and keep James.
- Reuters
