Bosh, Wade and Deng help Heat rebound from LeBron return to Cleveland | Hunter Felt | Sport | theguardian.com
It didn't take long for the Miami Heat to rebound. On Friday night, hours after LeBron James confirmed he was leaving to return to the Cleveland Cavaliers, the Heat re-signed forward Chris Bosh to a contract of five years and $118m. A few days later, they completed a deal to re-sign a self-proclaimed Heat lifer. Dwyane Wade announced it on Instagram.
While the loss of James means they may no longer be the odds-on favorites to win the NBA Finals, as they have been in recent seasons, re-signing two of the Big Three and adding Luol Deng ensures that the Heat will at least be a playoff threat in the Eastern Conference.
Because of the size and timing of Bosh's new contract, it felt like something of a panic move, one the Heat could regret around years four and five when Bosh will be far from his peak. Consider this factoid:
With a $20.64M first-year salary, next season Chris Bosh will earn more than Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili & Kawhi Leonard COMBINED (!!)
-- Numbers Never Lie (@ESPN_Numbers) July 11, 2014
It is, however, hard not to be happy for Bosh. He began his career as the face of the Toronto Raptors. When he became a free agent for the first time, in 2010, he could have demanded a lucrative contract from several teams. Instead, he was willing to take a pay cut to join the Heat and become the third option behind James and Wade, sacrificing his individual stats for the potential to win championships.
With this in mind, his new deal feels like Miami paying for past results, rewarding Bosh for his often overlooked contributions during the Heat's four-season reign on top of the East. Although one assumes Bosh would have preferred to have James alongside him, this is an opportunity to quash his "sidekick's sidekick" reputation. Unless Heat president Pat Riley pulls off some sort of miracle, which he has done in the past, it looks like Bosh will be the team's best player in the upcoming season.
Riley wasn't bidding against himself. Reportedly, the Houston Rockets were also willing to offer Bosh a maximum contrac, hoping they could create a West Coast Big Three of their own by teaming him up with center Dwight Howard and scorer James Harden. Houston even made moves to clear up the necessary cap space, sending Jeremy Lin to the Los Angeles Lakers and trading Omer Asik to the New Orleans Pelicans. With Bosh off the market, the Rockets ended up settling on Trevor Ariza as their big-time free agent, a somewhat deflating turn of events for the Houston front office.
With Bosh back in the fold, it was all but inevitable that Miami would re-sign Wade, who also opted out of his contract earlier in the offseason. Wade, who gathered interest from the Chicago Bulls, has played his entire pro career for Miami, and was NBA Finals MVP when the Heat won their first championship, in 2006. He would be far more valuable to the Heat than to any other franchise, and both sides knew it. Wade reportedly signed a two-year and $31.1m deal, taking a fairly significant cut.
The Heat did not stand pat after locking up Bosh and Wade. On Tuesday they finalized a two-year, $20m contract with Great Britain's Luol Deng, formerly of the Bulls and Cavaliers, who will now presumably be the team's third option. While Bosh, Wade and Deng may not be a Big Three, at the very least they will be make up a Somewhat Substantial Three. The Heat also brought back struggling point guard Mario Chalmers, straight off one of the worst performances in NBA Finals history, along with Chris "Birdman" Andersen.
Great Britain's Luol Deng in action for the Chicago Bulls.
Most of these players would not be returning to Miami if the Heat had committed to a full rebuilding, like the Boston Celtics are doing and like what the Lakers really ought to be doing. The Bosh signing partly acted as a notice to the rest of the league that Miami won't be tanking for draft picks any time soon. The Heat may not be a championship-caliber team without LeBron James, but Riley and the front office clearly believe they can still be competitive.
None of these moves were exactly big splashes, but there may not have been a big splash that the Heat could have made once James left, especially considering how much money and cap space they have committed to Bosh. It's not a disastrous haul by any means, but these moves make it clear that without the best player on the planet, the Heat are no longer the NBA's marquee team. They are just a very good one. Welcome to the NBA's new normal.

Miami Heat excited as 'warrior' Luol Deng officially signs - Miami Heat - MiamiHerald.com
The Heat signed free agent Luol Deng on Tuesday, and Pat Riley didn't understate the move, which helped the team salvage its roster after losing LeBron James.
"Signing Luol Deng is one of the most important free agent signings that we have ever had in the history of the franchise," the Heat's president said. "He is a proven All-Star and quintessential team player, both as a scorer, as well as an All-NBA defender.
"He brings the attitude of a warrior and competes every single night against the very, very best. We are thrilled to welcome him to the Heat family."
Deng, 29, is a 10-year NBA veteran and two-time NBA All-Star who rose to prominence in Chicago while playing under Tom Thibodeau, the Bulls' defensive-minded coach. A British national, Deng was averaging 19 points per game last season before being traded to the Cleveland Cavaliers.
Deng is projected to start at small forward, taking the place in the lineup vacated by James. According to reports, Deng signed a two-year deal worth $20 million.
Deng expressed interest in joining the Heat before James ever made his decision to return to Cleveland. Before James' bombshell, it seemed unlikely that the Heat would be able to add Deng to the mix. The Heat went into scramble mode following James' decision and landed Deng.
Deng averaged 17 points and shot 40 percent from three-point range against the Heat in the 2011 Eastern Conference finals. For his career, Deng has averaged 16.0 points and 6.3 rebounds. At 6-9, 220-pounds, Deng will give the Heat size at the small forward position, and his defensive work rate should fit in well with coach Erik Spoelstra's plans for next season.
"The comfort that he had is when we sat down with Pat Riley, and since we've talked to him, he's said they know Lu," Deng's agent, Ron Shade told CSN Chicago. "They've played against him. They've seen Lu at his best moments and his worst moments, and I think they understand that while Lu isn't going to fill in for LeBron, Lu can step in and replace some of the things that LeBron did."
With Deng at small forward, the Heat's projected starting lineup could also include newcomer Josh McRoberts at power forward, Chris Bosh at center, Dwyane Wade at shooting guard and Mario Chalmers at point guard. Wade signed a two-year deal Tuesday as well. Udonis Haslem and Chris Andersen are expected to sign either Tuesday evening or Wednesday. The Heat could still be in play for Carlos Boozer, who was amnestied by the Bulls.
"They're not looking for Lu to be LeBron," Shade emphasized. "They're looking for Lu to be Luol in LeBron's place and that means they know Chris [Bosh] is going to have to be better, Dwyane is going to have to be better and Lu can be better.
"I think that's the main thing that they see, that the weight is going to be evenly distributed between those three guys and looking forward to the camaraderie that they can build. The truth of the matter is, they still can be a contender in the East."
The Heat also signed rookie free-agent James Ennis on Tuesday. Ennis is a former Heat second-round draft pick who helped the Perth Wildcats to the Australian league championship last season. He averaged 21.2 points and 7.2 rebounds for Perth. He has appeared in six summer-league games for the Heat this month and is averaging 15.5 points, 5.0 rebounds, 1.5 assists and 1.33 steals while shooting 51.7 percent from the field, 48.1 percent from three-point range and 80 percent from the foul line.
"We were excited to draft James a year ago and have been impressed by the growth of his game in Summer League and Puerto Rico, as well as his terrific experience in Australia, leading Perth to a championship," Riley said. "We are looking forward to the infusion of energy he will bring to our roster."
