Bosh, Wade and Deng help Heat rebound from LeBron return to Cleveland | Hunter Felt | Sport | theguardian.com
It didn't take long for the Miami Heat to rebound. On Friday night, hours after LeBron James confirmed he was leaving to return to the Cleveland Cavaliers, the Heat re-signed forward Chris Bosh to a contract of five years and $118m. A few days later, they completed a deal to re-sign a self-proclaimed Heat lifer. Dwyane Wade announced it on Instagram.
While the loss of James means they may no longer be the odds-on favorites to win the NBA Finals, as they have been in recent seasons, re-signing two of the Big Three and adding Luol Deng ensures that the Heat will at least be a playoff threat in the Eastern Conference.
Because of the size and timing of Bosh's new contract, it felt like something of a panic move, one the Heat could regret around years four and five when Bosh will be far from his peak. Consider this factoid:
With a $20.64M first-year salary, next season Chris Bosh will earn more than Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili & Kawhi Leonard COMBINED (!!)
-- Numbers Never Lie (@ESPN_Numbers) July 11, 2014
It is, however, hard not to be happy for Bosh. He began his career as the face of the Toronto Raptors. When he became a free agent for the first time, in 2010, he could have demanded a lucrative contract from several teams. Instead, he was willing to take a pay cut to join the Heat and become the third option behind James and Wade, sacrificing his individual stats for the potential to win championships.
With this in mind, his new deal feels like Miami paying for past results, rewarding Bosh for his often overlooked contributions during the Heat's four-season reign on top of the East. Although one assumes Bosh would have preferred to have James alongside him, this is an opportunity to quash his "sidekick's sidekick" reputation. Unless Heat president Pat Riley pulls off some sort of miracle, which he has done in the past, it looks like Bosh will be the team's best player in the upcoming season.
Riley wasn't bidding against himself. Reportedly, the Houston Rockets were also willing to offer Bosh a maximum contrac, hoping they could create a West Coast Big Three of their own by teaming him up with center Dwight Howard and scorer James Harden. Houston even made moves to clear up the necessary cap space, sending Jeremy Lin to the Los Angeles Lakers and trading Omer Asik to the New Orleans Pelicans. With Bosh off the market, the Rockets ended up settling on Trevor Ariza as their big-time free agent, a somewhat deflating turn of events for the Houston front office.
With Bosh back in the fold, it was all but inevitable that Miami would re-sign Wade, who also opted out of his contract earlier in the offseason. Wade, who gathered interest from the Chicago Bulls, has played his entire pro career for Miami, and was NBA Finals MVP when the Heat won their first championship, in 2006. He would be far more valuable to the Heat than to any other franchise, and both sides knew it. Wade reportedly signed a two-year and $31.1m deal, taking a fairly significant cut.
The Heat did not stand pat after locking up Bosh and Wade. On Tuesday they finalized a two-year, $20m contract with Great Britain's Luol Deng, formerly of the Bulls and Cavaliers, who will now presumably be the team's third option. While Bosh, Wade and Deng may not be a Big Three, at the very least they will be make up a Somewhat Substantial Three. The Heat also brought back struggling point guard Mario Chalmers, straight off one of the worst performances in NBA Finals history, along with Chris "Birdman" Andersen.
Great Britain's Luol Deng in action for the Chicago Bulls.
Most of these players would not be returning to Miami if the Heat had committed to a full rebuilding, like the Boston Celtics are doing and like what the Lakers really ought to be doing. The Bosh signing partly acted as a notice to the rest of the league that Miami won't be tanking for draft picks any time soon. The Heat may not be a championship-caliber team without LeBron James, but Riley and the front office clearly believe they can still be competitive.
None of these moves were exactly big splashes, but there may not have been a big splash that the Heat could have made once James left, especially considering how much money and cap space they have committed to Bosh. It's not a disastrous haul by any means, but these moves make it clear that without the best player on the planet, the Heat are no longer the NBA's marquee team. They are just a very good one. Welcome to the NBA's new normal.

Can Wade still bring the heat? - Stats & Info Blog - ESPN
Derick E. Hingle/USA TODAY Sports	Dwyane Wade could be expected to take on a larger role in Miami without LeBron James.
Dwyane Wade reportedly	 signed a two-year deal Tuesday to stay with the
Miami Heat	. Let's take a look back at where he's excelled and where he's struggled in Miami.
The Good: Paint Scorer & Efficient 	* Wade shot a career-high 54.5 percent from the field last season, and much of that was due to his ability to score in the paint. Wade led all guards with 10.5 points in the paint per game last season. Additionally, his 64.1 field goal percentage in the paint was fifth in the NBA and best among all guards with at least 300 paint FG attempts last season.
Most Points in the Paint Per Game
Guards Last Season
FG pct in paint
Dwyane Wade 10.5 64.1*
Tyreke Evans 9.6 48.9
Michael Carter-Williams 8.5 46.5
Monta Ellis 8.5 52.8
*Best among guards (min. 300 paint FGA)
* Wade posted a 22.0 Player Efficiency Rating (PER) last season, his 10th straight season with a PER at or above 20.
Tim Duncan	 and
LeBron James	 are the only other players with a PER of 20 or better in each of the last 10 seasons.
The Bad: 3-Pointers & Health 	* For all his prowess in the paint, Wade has never been much of a 3-point shooter. He has never shot higher than 31.7 percent from beyond the arc in his career.
* With the exception of the 2010-11 season, Wade went out of his way not to shoot many 3-pointers during the Big 3 era. He attempted fewer 3-pointers over the last three seasons combined (154) than he did in all of 2010-11 (206). Last season, Wade made a career-low nine 3-pointers in 54 games while also attempting a career-low 32 3-pointers. Among guards to start at least 50 games last season, only
Shaun Livingston	 (6) attempted fewer threes than Wade.
* Wade has struggled to remain healthy recently, particularly last season when he missed 28 games. Wade played in just three games on no rest (i.e. back-to-back situations), averaging 13.3 PPG in those games. By comparison, Wade played in 17 such games in the 2010-11 season, scoring 28.5 PPG in those games. His average in those situations has declined in each of the last four seasons.
Dwyane Wade
On 2nd Night of Back-to-Backs
GP PPG
2010-11 17 28.5
2011-12 12 22.6
2012-13 10 21.9
2013-14 3 13.3
* Perhaps four straight runs to the NBA Finals took a toll on Wade's body. As further evidence that he might be wearing down, Wade's 2014 Finals average of 15.2 PPG was the lowest of his NBA Finals career (5th Finals appearance).
