Two fire engines were on the course and players who smoked were warned to be careful disposing of their fag ends when the Open was played here at Royal Liverpool in 2006. The country was in the grip of a heatwave, the course was baked and the conditions were fast and then some.
Tiger Woods won by taking a patient approach with a two iron off most tees to win on 18 under par but things have changed for this the 143rd Open and despite the worries of the Hoylake members as recently as May and June that the rough could scorch and die back again, a change in weather since then has ensured the course's first line of defence is maintained.
"There have been ideal growing conditions with a very wet winter and some warm weather in the spring and wet now, which is perfect grass-growing weather," said John Heggarty, the club professional.
"It's a little bit showery but still quite warm and in that respect the challenge of there being so much grass on the greens at the moment, is getting the speeds up for the players."
The field will set off from 6.25am on Thursday, with David Howell leading the way in the company of the 2001 champion, David Duval, and Robert Karlsson of Sweden. The Englishman is a beneficiary of local knowledge having played plenty of social golf in company days at Hoylake in the past three or four years. "The course is good, very different than it was in 2006," he said. "It's in great shape. Exactly what you would expect. It's not brutally tough rough-wise and it will be a good Open test."
Adam Scott is a model of preparation when it comes to such examinations and though he managed a commendable finish of eighth in the heat of 2006, he arrived last Thursday and began the process of relearning a course that has been lengthened by 54 yards - 27 of them on the 7th - has a reshaped and rebunkered 1st green and with 13 of the traps eliminated in total. Of the 82 that remain, some have been moved up and their catchment areas increased, with three discreet traps replacing the huge one that was alongside the 18th in 2006, and five holes have had new swales added around the greens to punish errant shots. Defence mechanisms are a work in progress.
"On some downwind holes there's a chance to hit over some bunkers and into some pretty wide areas," Scott said of the fairway sand. "And I'll try to do that and take advantage of driving the ball well. If not I'll be trying to stay out of the bunkers because they're an instant penalty.
"We've got a completely different golf course that we are looking at this week. It will play completely different. I had a good finish here eight years ago but that means nothing to having a good finish this week.
"The course is great and it's been presented beautifully. Every aspect of it is perfect. It's incredible really. It can change so much, especially throughout the day, depending whether the wind is up or dropped. If it's not windy, I think as soft as it is, we're going to have some good scores out here."
With heavy rain on Wednesday lunchtime softening the fairways even more, the course could be dependent on the prevailing winds for its main defences. With those forecast to switch three times during the first round and a risk of sharp showers throughout the four days, getting lucky with tee times may be an issue as well.
Henrik Stenson, the world No2 and chasing a first major, certainly likes what he sees and he is not slow to say so. "I think the course suits my eye pretty well. It's a nice links course. I guess the only two holes, the 3rd and the 18th, have got a bit more to them with out-of-bounds that maybe we're not used to on links courses. It's playing good. It's a bit softer, not as fiery as it was in '06. And into the wind you can certainly stop the ball on the green - downwind you've still got to be careful."
Justin Rose, the winner of last week's Scottish Open, had a practice round on the Sunday before he went to Royal Aberdeen and is another who needs an Open title on his CV, despite the brightest of starts in finishing joint fourth at Birkdale on his debut as an amateur in 1998. "I think it's a very fair course and offers everybody the opportunity to do well," he said. "The fairways are relatively flat, the greens are relatively flat, yet the trouble is there. The rough is relatively thick but nothing is extreme."
Graeme McDowell is one of the shorter players off the tee and feels that the emphasis will be on placement: "The course is playing much longer than it did in 2006 and I wouldn't call it soft by terms of what we see week in, week out on the tours around the world but it doesn't have that big bounce either. You're certainly not going to see balls spinning back. There will be a lot more drivers off the tees but the course has a lot more protection with the rolls and humps and undulations on these greens.
"It's one of my favourite Open venues from the point of view of fairness. Good shots get rewarded here. The course doesn't ask the question of length. It asks you to play a game of chess more than anything."
Woods presented the two iron that he used to dictate terms in the tactical battle of 2006 to the club and it sits in a glass case with assorted items of memorabilia from Hoylake champions past in the clubhouse. Who knows what bit of kit will be joining it next week?
Numbers Game
29,000 The amount of paying spectators present over the four days to see Roberto De Vicenzo win his one and only major title in 1967
1 The number of grandstands on the course in 1967 to enhance the views of the 44-year-old Argentinian lifting the Claret Jug at the 18th
230,000 The amount of paying customers over the week of the 2006 championship, still a record for an Open played in England.
39 The gap in years between Hoylake's 10th and 11th Open. The course fell off the rota due to a perceived lack of infrastructure but with four motorways within half an hour's drive and the cities of Chester and Liverpool only short distances away, the club was eventually granted renewed recognition
1 The number of traditional yellow scoreboards on the course this year, at the 18th for posterity's sake. There are smaller LED electronic scoreboards by the other greens and which provide in-play scores, flashbacks and even trivia questions on the rules
12 The number or occasions Royal Liverpool has hosted the Open, the first of them in 1897, only the second time it had been staged outside Scotland
