Chapter of talks closed; operation will continue
* Nawaz says NWA operation launched with civil-military consensus * Appeals political parties, ulema, tribal people to support operation
ISLAMABAD: Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on Monday resolved that operation Zarb-e-Azb in North Waziristan will continue till the achievement of ultimate objective as he vowed not to let country turn into safe haven of terrorists come what may.
In a formal announcement by political leadership of launch of military offensive, the prime minister told both houses of parliament separately that a decisive action has been started to purge country of terrorism. He hoped that the operation will lead to peace and stability.
"The military operation has be launched after taking care of all the sensitivities attached with such a move," the prime minister told the lawmakers. He said the government was cognizant of the difficulties and losses to be confronted during this action but the enemies of the country left it with no other option. He said the sincere offers by the government to resolve the issue through dialogue were not reciprocated by the other side. "We were left with no other option. We have given preference to peace in order to make our country a cradle of peace. Our people are witness to the fact that government's goodwill offer was not taken in its real spirit. They (terrorists) continued their activities even during the dialogue process," he said. "The world knows that on one side we were engaged talks with Taliban and on the other hand our installations and forces were being targeted."
The prime minister called for closing the chapter of talks. "There might be many opinions on dialogue or operation yesterday. But today, the chapter of peace talks is closed," he said, and stressed that all sections of society should stand by the armed forces and the government. He hoped that the national political leadership will stand united at this critical moment as it remained united in the past on the issues of national interest.
Nawaz also talked about the consultation process between civilian and military leadership and said that all the decisions from dialogue process to military offensive were taken with mutual consultation and consensus.
He said the decision of a decisive military action in North Waziristan was also taken after mutual consultations following unabated terror incidents, particularly attack on Karachi airport. "Worship places, educational institutions, bazaars and even playgrounds were not safe. Playgrounds are eagerly awaiting foreign players while snow-clad peaks are missing the climbers. Cities, towns and bazaars are living under a shadow of terror. Travel advisories were being issued." He said Federal Minister Lt Gen (r) Abdul Qadir Baloch will personally supervise the relief operation, besides coordination between federal and provincial governments.
Nawaz appealed to religious scholars to guide the government in the light of true teachings of Islam to eliminate the terrorism from the country.
