Yellen rejects move to set up formula for Fed - Business - The Boston Globe
WASHINGTON -- Janet Yellen, chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, said Wednesday it would be a serious mistake for Congress to require the nation's central bank to adopt a formal policy rule to guide its decisions on setting interest rates.
Yellen faced questions from Republicans about legislation they are supporting to make the Fed more accountable and make its policy decisions more transparent. One of the requirements would have the Fed adopt a policy rule that would govern future decisions and would have the Government Accountability Office audit the rule.
Continue reading below
Yellen rejected that approach, saying the Fed needs the flexibility it has to make policy decisions.
''It would be a grave mistake for the Fed to commit to conduct monetary policy according to a mathematical rule. No central bank does that,'' Yellen told lawmakers.
She said that while the House legislation introduced last week would allow the Fed to deviate from any rule that it set up, any such change would trigger an audit by the GAO, the auditing arm of Congress. She said this procedure would ''undermine central bank independence in the conduct of monetary policy.''
Yellen's comments came during an appearance before the House Financial Services Committee to present the Fed's semi-annual economic report to Congress.
Yellen repeated the testimony she had given on Tuesday before the Senate Banking Committee in which she said that while the economy is improving, it needs support from the Fed in the form of exceptionally low interest rates.
Continue reading below
Yellen's discussion with GOP members of the committee over the proposed Federal Reserve Accountability and Transparency Act represented the sharpest questioning she has received from Congress since taking over in February.
Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, chairman of the House financial services committee, told Yellen that many lawmakers believed its power needed to be checked.
''The status quo is unacceptable,'' he said. ''A dramatic increase in power calls for a corresponding increase in accountability and transparency.''
Yellen maintained that the legislation as written would make it harder for the central bank to keep inflation under control and achieve maximum employment.
