Villani: Keep Series out of All-Star Game so stars shine | Boston Herald
If fans didn't know Adam Wainwright for being one of the better pitchers in the National League, they certainly know him now as the guy who served up "pipe shots" to Derek Jeter in Tuesday night's All-Star Game.
The Cardinals' righthander made the apparent mistake of saying he had thrown a couple of very hittable pitches in an effort to give the captain something he could drive.
OK, so maybe it was dumb to admit it, but what Wainwright did is exactly what I want to see from an All-Star game. And it's exactly why the rule tying home field advantage in the World Series to the outcome of this game continues to be one of the worst rules in modern day sports.
Baseball has the only showcase that remotely resembles the regular season product, but it's still an exhibition. Starters don't often come out after a couple of at bats and pitchers tend to last more than just the first or second inning of a regular game.
This game used to mean something. Players used to play all nine innings and beating the other league meant something -- perhaps too much in the case of Pete Rose barreling over Ray Fosse.
Fast forward 40 years and things have changed. The Internet and MLB TV lets fans watch whatever team they'd like. Thanks to interleague play, we no longer have to wonder how Mike Trout would fare against Clayton Kershaw -- their teams play each other for four games next month. The mystique is gone and it isn't coming back.
Perhaps the worst part of the home-field advantage rule is that is hasn't worked. Ratings continue to drop and the five lowest rated All-Star games were the last five. I could almost understand the ends justifying the means, but in this case they don't.
What the game can still provide is the thrill of recognizing some of the game's greats. That's what happened last night with Jeter, one of the most respected players in baseball history. Wainwright respected him enough to put his glove down and applaud when he came to the plate and enough to give him a decent pitch to hit.
If you want to create an "AL vs. NL" scenario to decide home field in the Series, then use the leagues' records during interleague play. Or, don't outthink the room and give it to the team that wins the most games in the regular season. Let an exhibition be an exhibition and stop trying to say it counts when the players themselves clearly don't agree.
Chris Villani is the host of "Sports Town" on Herald Radio. Follow him on 
