Hobby Lobby: Believe it or not | The Economist
Pro-lifers are elated
TWO years ago the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. A decision on June 30th was less favourable. The Court allowed an exception to Obamacare's mandate that firms above a certain size offer their staff insurance that includes free contraception. Rarely has a decision provoked such controversy. Hillary Clinton called it "deeply disturbing" , though her husband signed the law that underpins it.
The case, Burwell v Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc, was brought by two Christian families and their businesses. The Greens own Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft shops, and Mardel, a Christian bookstore; the Hahns own Conestoga Wood Specialties, a cabinetmaker. Obamacare requires firms to offer their workers all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The Greens and Hahns believe that four of those contraceptives, including the "morning-after pill", are abortifacients, since they may keep a fertilised egg from implanting in the uterine wall.
In this section
Related topics
The issue was not whether these highly debatable beliefs are valid, but the circumstances under which a religious objection may trump a federal law. The constitution protects the right to the "free exercise" of religion. A 1993 law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, further requires that the government "shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion" unless doing so is the least restrictive way to advance a compelling government interest. By five votes to four, the court ruled that obliging closely held firms with religious owners to pay for their employees' contraceptives violates that principle.
The government had argued that Hobby Lobby could not claim to have religious beliefs because it is a for-profit corporation. "While the Greens are persons who exercise religion, there is a critical separation between the Greens and the corporation they have elected to create," the government's lawyers insisted. A company has rights and obligations that differ from those of its owners. That includes being subject to Obamacare's employer mandate, they argued.
The court's conservative justices disagreed. "Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby, Conestoga and Mardel protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control these companies," wrote Justice Samuel Alito. If Hobby Lobby refused to cover the four contraceptives, it faced fines of up to $475m a year, which Mr Alito said clearly counted as a "substantial burden". And the government had other, less onerous ways to provide contraception, he argued. For example, it could pay for contraception itself or include for-profit companies in an "accommodation" already made for non-profit religious organisations, such as Catholic universities. Under that accommodation, insurers cover the cost of contraception, without raising prices for employers or their workers.
Mr Alito insisted that the ruling was a narrow one, applying only to closely held firms under very specific circumstances. It is unclear how the government will now ensure that women with religious employers obtain free contraception. The "accommodation" may not be viable; its legality is being challenged by separate suits. Some women may have to pay for their own contraceptives. (Since the cost of company-provided insurance comes largely out of wages, many women with employer coverage are already paying some of the cost of their contraceptives.)
The ruling could make it harder to enforce the Obamacare mandate that employers offer health insurance (a mandate that has already been delayed). Many firms are "closely held", including some that employ tens of thousands of workers. These companies may now seek exemptions from other parts of the mandate.
On July 1st the Supreme Court ordered lower courts to revisit objections to a broader set of contraceptives, in addition to the four raised by Hobby Lobby. In future, companies might challenge Obamacare's mandate to cover immunisations, blood transfusions or medicines derived from pigs, though none has yet done so. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the decision was of "startling breadth". Companies, she wrote, "can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."

Practical and legal hurdles remain in contraception fight - Jennifer Haberkorn - POLITICO.com
The Obama administration and Senate Democrats promised to fight the Supreme Court rebuke of Obamacare's contraception coverage requirement on Monday, even as a second round of legal fights over birth control head to the court.
White House press secretary Josh Earnest said the administration will "respect" the ruling while continuing "to look for ways to improve American's health by helping women have more, not less, say over the personal health decisions that affect them and their families." The White House is looking to Congress to take action. Senate Democrats say they want to offer legislation, but it's not yet clear what that could look like.
Continue Reading
The high court ruling does not mean that any closely held company with a sincerely held religious belief can automatically just stop including contraception in their health plans. The company would still have to go to a court and seek the exemption. But Monday's ruling will make that exemption very easy to obtain, said Daniel Blomberg, an attorney at the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty who represented Hobby Lobby.
(Also on POLITICO: SCOTUS decision ignites Obamacare, contraception fight)
"There will be work for the district court to do because [the Religious Freedom Restoration Act] only applies to the people who assert it," Blomberg said.
It's unclear how many companies will pursue that option, although dozens of companies across the country have filed lawsuits over the contraception rule.
The fallout of the Hobby Lobby ruling could be one of the first challenges for new HHS Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell, who started her job less than a month ago.
In a 5-4 decision, the court said that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act forbids the administration from requiring closely held for-profit employers to provide birth control in their employee health insurance plans. But any congressional attempt to exempt the health law from that religious freedom act is sure to be blocked by the Republican controlled House of Representatives.
Unable to make changes to the Affordable Care Act in Congress, the White House has used administrative action instead. Earnest didn't say on Monday whether the administration would pursue a similar remedy on birth control.
The court devoted several pages of its opinion Monday explaining that the government could choose to provide birth control to women directly, without involving employers.
"This would certainly be less restrictive of the [companies'] religious liberty and HHS has not shown that this is not a viable alternative," Justice Samuel Alito wrote for the court. He said the administration has not proven it would be prohibitively expensive, either, certainly not when "compared with the overall cost of the ACA."
On Capitol Hill, Senate Democrats pledged to restore the coverage.
"Since the Supreme Court decided it was not going to protect women's access to health care, I am going to," Sen. Patty Murray told POLITICO. She's working on legislation to "protect health care services regardless of occupation" but said she hasn't settled on a specific approach.
"We are looking to Congress to right this wrong. We cannot trust the courts," said Ilyse Hogue, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America, during a press call shortly after the ruling. Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood Action Fund, said advocates have not yet determined the best way to do that.
The ruling in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby addressed for-profit companies like Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood Specialties, a smaller family owned woodworking company. But the court is still facing a slew of lawsuits from nonprofit corporations, such as Catholic schools, over contraception. The White House already made an accommodation for religious nonprofits so that they don't have to directly provide the birth control, but dozens say it still forces them to violate their religious beliefs.
The University of Notre Dame has indicated that it will ask the court in the fall to take up its challenge. Two other religious nonprofits on Friday filed emergency petitions to the court to block the requirement, which would go into effect on Tuesday when their new insurance plan years start.
The court on Monday pointed to the accommodation as a reason why the coverage mandate wasn't essential. But Alito said that the court wasn't yet ruling on whether the nonprofits' accommodation violates the religious freedom act.
Several opponents of the law say the ruling on Monday was a death knell for the accommodation.
"There were a couple pages of discussion of how direct government payment [of birth control] could count as a least restrictive means," said Kevin Walsh, a University of Richmond law professor who is consulting with some of the religious non-profit cases. "Having that as an alternative is helpful in the non-profit cases," he said, because the government would have to prove that the accommodation is the least restrictive means of getting birth control to women.
Kyle Cheney and Natalie Villacorta contributed to this report.
