Atrocities in Gaza: Israeli raids kill 31 on third day of campaign - The Express Tribune
Smoke rises after an Israeli missile strike hit Gaza City on July 07, 2014. PHOTO: AFP
GAZA CITY: 	Israeli strikes on Gaza killed 31 people on Thursday as a major air campaign entered its third day, with most of the bloodshed in the southern city of Khan Yunis.
The deaths raised to 82 the overall number of Gazans killed since Israel launched Operation Protective Edge early on Tuesday in a bid to halt cross-border rocket fire by militant groups.
Most deaths occurred in Khan Yunis when a strike hit a cafe around noon time where football fans were watching the World Cup semi-final between Argentine and the Netherlands. Nine people were killed, and at least 15 wounded, emergency services spokesman Ashraf al Qudra said.
An hour later, Israeli warplanes struck two houses elsewhere in the city, killing four women and four children. Another strike on the city killed a 19-year-old man and his 75-year-old father. A four-year-old child, who was also injured in one of the strikes on Khan Yunis, succumbed to her injuries during the day.
In central Gaza, a man was killed in a strike on Nusseirat refugee camp. In Zeitun, east of Gaza City, a missile killed a man on a motorbike in the late afternoon. Another man was killed in a strike on the northern town of Jabaliya at around the same time.
Hours earlier, a strike on a car elsewhere in Jabaliya killed three men, all of them members of the al Quds Brigades, a fellow member told AFP.
Earlier, a strike on a car in the west of Gaza City killed a 35-year-old man and two others.
There have been no Israeli deaths so far, but Hamas has launched waves of rockets across central Israel that have triggered sirens in cities as far from Gaza as Tel Aviv, Jerusalem, and Haifa.
Meanwhile, the world's largest Muslim bloc urged the UN Security Council to force a halt to Israel's air war on Gaza that has killed more than 80 Palestinians in three days.
Published in The Express Tribune, July 11th, 2014.
