Shlomo: Sad truth hidden by rain of rockets over Israel, Gaza Strip - Houston Chronicle
This is a tale of two "cities." One is a country named Israel and the other is the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip.
One is America's ally. The other is a territory controlled by terrorists, the likes of ISIS and al-Qaida.
One reluctantly enters into military action, even as a defensive measure. The other is made up of trigger-happy terrorists with no inhibitions whatsoever.
One strikes carefully chosen military targets with surgical precision in an attempt to avoid hitting innocent civilians, even sending phone messages and texts to the target itself before hitting it so as to enable civilians to evacuate. The other goes out of its way, but in the opposite direction, trying its best to hit and kill as many civilians as possible.
One considers every death of a civilian, including of the other side, as a regretful event. The other celebrates openly the killing of its neighbors as exemplified in the words of Hamas spokesman Sami Abu-Zuhri this week, "All the Israelis are legitimate targets."
One celebrates life. The other celebrates death.
Most important, one is a democracy defending its citizens. The other is a terrorist organization with a vile and racist covenant.
It's a tale that seems doomed to keep repeating. A tragedy featuring two diametrically opposite characters - Israel and Hamas.
The tale begins with an upsurge of violence from Hamas-controlled Gaza toward Israeli civilians, which is met with a measured defensive Israeli retaliation.
Ironically, peace was the reason Israel sacrificed the Gaza land in 2005. At that time, Israel envisioned a happily-ever-after ending for the Palestinians, too. It was a hope and belief that they would be able to take the infrastructure left for them by Israeli entrepreneurs to become another Middle Eastern success story.
Instead, Hamas seized power with a vow to never end "armed resistance" to eradicate the "Zionist entity" through jihad. Any infrastructure that was left is now used to launch rockets toward Israel.
You might be shocked to learn that even as missiles fly from Gaza into Israel, Israel continues to supply electricity, food, and water to Gaza, as well as medical treatment to any Palestinians in need (on July 8 alone, 80 Palestinians crossed from Gaza into Israel and were admitted in Israeli hospitals).
As I am trying to finish this piece, my phone keeps buzzing. No, it is not incoming calls, but rather the new app I installed, called Red Alert. The app sounds a warning siren every time Israelis have to run for their lives and find a shelter from incoming Hamas missiles.
They have as little as 15 seconds to do so, regardless if they are driving on the highway, dining in a restaurant or sleeping at home.
It is a harrowing experience that many Houstonians who are visiting Israel - whether they are Jews or Christians, families or tourists - are seeing first-hand. It is also an excruciating existence for the Israelis and the Jewish communities, who live here in Houston while their loved ones are under fire in Israel.
When under attack, Israel has the right of self-defense and is obligated to act decisively. Israel's actions are measured and directed at the missile launchers and the terror infrastructures of Hamas, which have turned the Gaza Strip into the center for attacks against Israel.
Here is the ultimate and sad truth of the tale: If Israel were to lay down its arms tomorrow; Israel would be annihilated. But, if Hamas were to lay down its arms tomorrow, there would be peace.
Ambassador Meir Shlomo, consul general of Israel to the southwest United States, is based in Houston.
