Gaza Live: Israel now plans "boots on the ground", says ground attack chances "very high"
--End of updates for 16 July--
10.40 pm: Gaza ground invasion likely to happen, says Israeli official
In a clear indication that Israel is seriously considering ground strikes on Gaza, a senior Israeli military official told New York Times that chances of such a possibility was "very high", and that "if you want to efficiently fight terrorism you must be present, boots on the ground".
The New York Times reported: "The official, who has been briefing Israeli ministers who make strategic decisions, said his assessment was based on "the signals I get" and the diminishing returns of aerial bombardment after nine days. He said an Israeli takeover of Gaza is "not a huge challenge," estimating it would take "a matter of days or weeks," but that preventing a more dangerous devolution in the coastal enclave would require an occupation "of many months."
10:30 pm: Israeli naval shelling kills 4 boys on Gaza beach - medics
Israeli shelling killed four boys on a Gaza beach on Wednesday, a local health official said, and Palestinian militants fired a further 70 rockets into Israel after a failed Egyptian attempt to halt more than a week of warfare.
Israel urged the evacuation of several districts in the Gaza Strip where more than 100,000 people live, threatening ground operations to try to stem the rocket attacks.
An Israeli official said the defence minister asked Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's security cabinet to authorise the mobilisation of another 8,000 reserve troops. The military has said that around 30,000 reservists have been called up since the Israeli offensive began a week ago.
Israeli experts predicted overland raids in the Gaza Strip to destroy command bunkers and tunnels that have allowed the outgunned Palestinians to withstand air and naval barrages and keep the rockets flying.
The Hamas political leadership formally rejected Cairo's ceasefire plan on Wednesday, a spokesman for the Islamist group said, a day after its armed wing spurned it and kept up rocket salvoes at Israel, which held its fire for six hours on Tuesday.
Ashraf al-Qidra of the Gaza Health Ministry said shelling from an Israeli gunboat off Gaza's Mediterranean coast killed four boys - two aged 10 and the others 9 and 11 - from one family and critically wounded another youngster on the beach.
An Israeli military spokesman had no immediate comment. Netanyahu says the armed forces try to avoid civilian casualties but that militant rocket crews deliberately put non-combatants at risk by operating in densely populated residential areas.
Ahmed Abu Hassera, who witnessed the incident at the shore, told Reuters: "The kids were playing on the beach. They were all ... under the age of 15."
Israeli shelling has frequently targeted Gaza beaches, which are suspected staging areas for militants.
"When the first shell hit land, they ran away but another shell hit them all," said Abu Hassera, whose shirt was stained with blood. "It looked as if the shells were chasing them."
Reacting to the incident, Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri told reporters in Gaza: "These crimes will not succeed to break our will. We will continue the confrontation and resistance and we promise (Israel) will pay the price for all these crimes."
Earlier, Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip killed at least eight Palestinians, five of them civilians, and a six-year-old boy died of wounds sustained a few days ago, Gaza medics said, raising the death toll in the Hamas-dominated enclave to 208. Gaza health officials say most of the Palestinian dead from in the worst flareup of violence with Israel in two years have been civilians.
Gaza's Al-Mezan Center for Human rights said 259 houses had been demolished by Israeli air strikes and 1,034 damaged along with 34 mosques and four hospitals.
The rocket volleys from Gaza have a race to shelters a daily routine for hundreds of thousands in the Jewish state. One Israeli has been killed in the rocket fire, most of whose projectiles have crashed on open ground or been intercepted by Israel's Iron Dome anti-missile shield.
3:42 pm: On day 9 of Israeli strikes, Gaza death toll rises to 208
A woman and a child were among three people killed in an Israeli strike on southern Gaza on Wednesday, raising the overall death toll to 208, the emergency services said.
The latest raid took place in the southern city of Khan Yunis, killing three people from the Abu Daqqa family and wounding another five people, Ashraf al-Qudra said.
Among the dead was a 10-year-old boy and a 65-year-old woman, with witnesses saying the missile struck a car in Bani Suheila in the eastern part of the city.
The strike raised Wednesday's death toll to 11, with all the victims killed in the southern Gaza Strip.
Earlier, a strike on a house in Rafah, which straddles Gaza's southern border with Egypt, killed two men, and shortly afterwards, another young man was killed in a second strike, with witnesses identifying him as an Islamic Jihad militant.
A third strike on the city killed another man, Qudra said.
Meanwhile in Khan Yunis, a missile struck the house of Mohammed al-Arjani, killing his 19-year-old son Abdullah.
About an hour later, tank fire from inside Israel hit the eastern part of Khan Yunis, killing one person, Qudra said.
Shortly afterwards, another member of the Abu Daqqa family was also killed in the same area, he said, identifying him as Mahmud Abu Daqqa, 33.
Wednesday's air strikes raised the overall toll from Israel's nine-day operation to 208 Palestinians, with more than 1,550 injured.
According to figures provided by the Gaza-based Palestinian Centre for Human Rights (PCHR), more than 80 percent of the victims were civilians.
2:51 pm: Woman and Child among the three killed
A woman and a child were among three Palestinians killed on Wednesday in a fresh Israeli air strike in the southern Gaza Strip, an emergency services spokesman said.
In a statement, Ashraf al-Qudra confirmed three people from the Abu Daqqa family had been killed in a strike in Khan Yunis, including a 65-year-old woman and a 10-year-old boy.
Witnesses told AFP the missile struck a car in the eastern Bani Suheila neighbourhood.
2:28 pm: Three Palestinians killed in fresh Israeli raids
Three Palestinians were killed on Wednesday in a fresh Israeli air strike in the southern Gaza Strip, an emergency services spokesman said.
Witnesses told AFP the missile struck a car in the southern city of Khan Yunis, with emergency services spokesman Ashraf al-Qudra confirming three people had been killed and another five wounded.
11:30 am: Israeli military warns 100,000 Gazans to leave homes
The Israeli army has warned some 100,000 Palestinians in the eastern Gaza Strip to evacuate their homes, military sources said Wednesday.
AFP correspondents saw flyers dropped over the Zeitun neighbourhood southeast of Gaza City, and residents there and elsewhere also reported receiving recorded phone and text messages urging them to evacuate by 0500 GMT.
8:10 am: Gaza death toll crosses 200
New Israeli air strikes in Gaza early Wednesday killed several people, medics said, bringing the death toll from Israel's operation in the besieged Palestinian territory to 203.
A strike on a house in the southern city of Rafah killed two men, emergency services spokesman Ashraf al-Qudra told AFP, and a separate raid killed a young man who witnesses said was an Islamic Jihad militant.
Another Rafah strike shortly afterwards left one man dead, Qudra said, while a raid on the home of Mohammed al-Arjani in the southern city of Khan Yunis killed his son Abdullah, 19.
About an hour later, tank fire from inside Israel hit the eastern part of Khan Yunis, killing on person, Qudra said.
Some of the first raids on Wednesday morning targeted homes of senior Hamas officials, including Mahmud al-Zahar, but there were no reports of casualties in those strikes.
7:58 am: Israel targets Hamas leader's house
Israeli warplanes bombed the house of senior Hamas leader Mahmud al-Zahar on Wednesday, security officials said, on day nine of an operation against militants in the besieged Palestinian territory.
There was no one in the house, in western Gaza City, at the time the air strike hit, the security sources and witnesses said, adding that the homes of other Hamas officials were targeted in separate raids. -AFP
7:30 am: Three more Palestinians killed, death toll rises to 197
With US ally Israel facing a barrage of rocket attacks from Gaza, a Senate panel on Tuesday approved a 50 percent funding boost for the Jewish State's Iron Dome anti-missile system.
The measure, if it becomes law, would provide $621.6 million for Israeli missile defense programs for the 2015 fiscal year starting in October, including $351 million for the short-range Iron Dome system that has been put to the test over the past eight days amid a raging conflict between Israel and Hamas.
Congress appropriated $235 million to Iron Dome last year.
The White House had requested about $176 million for the system for 2015, but lawmakers doubled the amount. Congress often increases funding for Israeli security projects sought by the president.
The funding is part of the administration's request of $3.1 billion for military assistance to Israel, the world's largest beneficiary of US foreign aid.
In May, the House of Representatives adopted its own National Defense Authorization Act, which matches the Senate's Iron Dome funding proposal.
The Senate measure is part of an overall Defense Department spending bill backed by the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee Tuesday that commits $549.3 billion to military operations for 2015.
The package keeps several Pentagon projects that had been on the chopping block, including the tank-killing A-10 planes Senator John McCain described as "the best close-air support weapon in our nation's arsenal."
The measure still has to be approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee and the full Senate. -AFP
7:24 am: Three more Palestinians killed, death toll rises to 197
Three Palestinians were killed in two Israeli air strikes on the Gaza Strip on Tuesday night, raising the toll in eight days of violence to 197 deaths, medics said.
One strike killed two men in a car in southern Rafah, and a second in central Johr al-Deeq killed one man, emergency services spokesman Ashraf al-Qudra said.
7:18 am: When there is no cease-fire, our answer is fire: Netanyahu
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pledged to ramp up Israel's military campaign against Gaza, after an Egyptian truce plan failed to end eight days of cross-border fire.
"This would have been better resolved diplomatically, that's what we tried to do when we accepted the Egyptian truce proposal today," he said.
"But Hamas leaves us no choice but to expand and intensify the campaign against it," Netanyahu said.
"That's how we will act till we achieve our goal of bringing quiet to Israel's citizens, while significantly harming the terror group," he said of the Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas which controls Gaza.
"When there is no cease-fire, our answer is fire," the Washington Post quoted him as saying in his televised address.
In televised remarks, Netanyahu also addressed criticism from members of his cabinet earlier in the day, when Foreign Minister Avidgor Lieberman slammed the Israeli acceptance of the Egyptian truce and Netanyahu's "hesitance", saying Israel should conquer Gaza and expel Hamas from it.
"These are moments when decisions must be made coolly and with patience, not hastily or noisily," Netanyahu said.
"I'm determined to do the right thing, I know you trust me to ignore the background noises and focus on the main mission to safeguard you and your lives."
Shortly after Netanyahu's remarks, his bureau announced he had fired deputy defence minister Danny Danon, a firebrand member of his Likud party, who became a vocal critic of Netanyahu during the operation, calling him a "failure" and saying Hamas was controlling the conflict.
"It is inconceivable that the deputy defence minister will attack the country's leadership leading the campaign," a statement read.
"The severe remarks show a lack of responsibility... and even are used by Hamas terror group to slam the government, as evident in their communication networks," it said.
Meanwhile, speculation remained rife over a possible ground incursion, with no conclusive remarks from Israeli officials but a pledge to carry one out if the need arose.
"The army renewed its attacks and will increase them as much as necessary, in the air, sea and land, according to our orders," the armed forces chief of staff, Lieutenant General Benny Gantz, said after Netanyahu's remarks.
7:07 am: First Israeli killed as conflict enters 9th day
A rocket fired from Gaza killed an Israeli civilian on Tuesday, the army said, the first Israeli death in eight days of cross-border violence.
The man was fatally wounded near the Erez crossing into Gaza, the army said.
A spokesman for the Israeli emergency services told AFP the 38-year-old was delivering food to soldiers serving in the area.
6:54 am: Angry Palestinians drive health minister out of Gaza
Palestinian health minister Jawad Awad cancelled a trip to Gaza City's Shifa hospital on Tuesday after being confronted by angry protesters as he arrived from Egypt, officials said, AFP reported.
Witnesses said protesters threw shoes and eggs at Awad's car as he entered Gaza through the Rafah border crossing.
Officials said he left the Palestinian territory shortly afterwards.
Protesters also gathered at Shifa hospital in Gaza City, carrying posters criticising Awad and the recently formed government of technocrats to which he belongs.
The government was sworn in on 2 June following a unity deal between the Islamist Hamas movement and president Mahmud Abbas which ended seven years of rival administrations in the West Bank and Gaza.
"Gaza has been bombed, and Gaza has been destroyed, and now he comes to visit?" protester Ahmed Murtaja said incredulously.
"We don't want this visit and all the Palestinian people are opposed to it and reject it," he told AFP.
Protesters said they were angry that it had taken Awad eight days to visit Gaza, where 193 people have been killed in Israeli air strikes.
They also condemned the Palestinian president for failing to do more to halt the Israeli campaign, with some chanting: "Abu Mazen (Abbas) is a collaborator."
In a statement, the health ministry condemned the "flagrant and brutal assault" on the minister and his delegation in Rafah, blaming the incident on "media affiliated with Hamas."
Although the reconciliation agreement has held, a lot of bad blood remains between Hamas and the West Bank leadership.
"The ministry of health will continue to stand by our people in Gaza," the statement said, pledging to secure medical supplies for the wounded.
There was no immediate comment from Hamas, but a top member of its exiled politburo, Mussa Abu Marzuq, condemned the incident as "irresponsible and improper" on his Facebook page.
He called for an investigation and prosecution of those responsible.
6:12 am: One killed in renewed Israeli strikes in Gaza, death toll reaches 193
Renewed Israeli air strikes in the Gaza Strip killed a 77-year-old man on Tuesday, medics said, the first death since the failure of an Egyptian truce proposal.
The death of the man, in southern Khan Yunis, brought the toll in eight days of violence to 193, according to emergency services spokesman Ashraf al-Qudra.
6:00 am: Hamas limits crossings at border with Israel
Hamas allowed a group of 25 Palestinians, including those seeking medical treatment, to cross from Gaza into Israel after closing the border crossing earlier on Tuesday.
But it declined to let anyone else leave Gaza or enter from Israel, a Palestinian official in charge of coordinating movement at the Erez crossing told AFP.
He said a group of 13 Palestinians with injuries or illnesses were allowed to cross with 12 family members.
But no one else was allowed to use the crossing, he added.
A Hamas official confirmed the Gaza side of the border had been reopened for limited movement after it was earlier declared closed.
At the time, a Hamas official said no one would be allowed to use the crossing until an international guarantee that it would not be targeted by Israeli shelling.
The official said the border was closed for security reasons after the Palestinian side was repeatedly bombed.
There was no immediate confirmation of the border restrictions from COGAT, the Israeli defence ministry unit responsible for the crossing.
--End of updates for 15 July--
10:16 pm: Israel resumes airstrikes as Hamas rejects Egypt's ceasefire plan
Israel today resumed air strikes on Gaza after an Egyptian-brokered ceasefire failed to stop the escalating violence that has killed 192 Palestinians in nine days of fighting as Hamas continued to fire rockets at the Jewish state.
"Hamas has fired 47 rockets since we suspended our strikes in Gaza (this morning). As a result, we have resumed our operation against Hamas," an Israeli military statement said on Twitter.
"After Hamas and Islamic Jihad refused the Egyptian proposal for a ceasefire and fired dozens of rockets at Israel, the prime minister and defence minister have ordered the IDF to act forcefully against the terror targets in Gaza," an Israeli official said speaking as Israeli strikes resumed. - Agencies
4:14 pm: Turkish PM Erdogan accuses Israel of committing "state terrorism"
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday stepped up his rhetoric against Israel over its its deadly air offensive on Gaza, accusing the Jewish state of committing "state terrorism" against the Palestinians, AFP reported.
Presenting himself as the sole world leader speaking up for the Palestinians, Erdogan said that any normalisation in the troubled ties between Israel and Ankara was currently out of the question.
"Israel is continuing to carry out state terrorism in the region. Nobody, except us, tells it to stop," Erdogan told members of his ruling party in parliament, accusing Israel of perpetrating a "massacre" of Palestinians.
"To what extent will the world remain silent to this state terrorism?"
Supporters from his Islamic-rooted Justice and Development Party (AKP) often interrupted his address by shouting slogans like "Murderer Israel!".
Erdogan also welcomed the ceasefire proposal as "very positive" and "precious".
"I hope this ceasefire will be secured," he said.
"But it appears that the blood of innocent Palestinian children is being exploited in the dirty politics of the Middle East," he said.
Erdogan is due to host Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas in Turkey for talks on Friday.
Erdogan sees himself as a champion of the Palestinian cause and is also keen to underline his credentials as a global Muslim leader ahead of 10 August presidential elections in which he is standing.
"You are no longer alone and will never be," said Erdogan, referring to the Palestinians.
3:30 pm: Kerry urges Hamas to accept ceasefire proposal
US Secretary of State John Kerry urged Hamas to accept Egypt's ceasefire proposal to halt fighting with Israel in the Gaza Strip, AFP reported.
In a brief statement released by the State Department on Tuesday, Kerry welcomed Israel's decision to accept the proposal.
"The Egyptian proposal for a ceasefire and negotiations provides an opportunity to end the violence and restore calm," Kerry said.
"We welcome the Israeli cabinet's decision to accept it. We urge all other parties to accept the proposal," he added.
Speaking to reporter in Vienna, Kerry said: "There are great risks of even an escalation of the violence," adding that the United States wanted to give an Egyptian ceasefire initiative time to work, but he was ready to fly back to Middle East "tomorrow" if needed.
2:56 pm: Israel will broaden military action if Hamas rejects ceasefire: Netanyahu
Israel sees in the Egyptian-proposed Gaza truce an opportunity to strip the Palestinian enclave of rockets but is prepared to redouble military action there if the cross-border launches persist, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Tuesday.
"We agreed to the Egyptian proposal in order to give an opportunity for the demilitarisation of the (Gaza) Strip - from missiles, from rockets and from tunnels - through diplomatic means," he told reporters.
"But if Hamas does not accept the ceasefire proposal, as would now seem to be the case, Israel would have all international legitimacy to broaden the military operation to achieve the required quiet."
2:33 pm: Hamas rocket hits port city in southern Israel
A Gaza rocket struck the southern port city of Ashdod on Tuesday, police said, just hours after Israel agreed to abide by an Egyptian truce that was rejected by Hamas.
"The rocket struck a yard outside a house in Ashdod, several people have been treated for shock," police spokeswoman Luba Samri said in a statement, AFP reported.
The attack was claimed by the armed wing of Hamas, the Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades, which said it had fired "eight Grad rockets" at Ashdod, which is home to some 212,000 people.
There were no immediate reports from Gaza of a military response to the fire on Ashdod, which came after three mortar shells struck open areas near the southern flank of the Israel-Gaza border.
In a statement issued around the same time, Hamas said it did not consider itself obliged by the Egyptian proposal. "Because we were excluded from the consultations for this (truce) initiative, we are not obliged to abide by it," it said.
2:17 pm: Hamas closes border crossing with Israel
Hamas said Tuesday it has closed the Erez border crossing due to Israeli shelling, in a move that stranded a group of Palestinians planning to cross for medical treatment.
A group of about 20 Palestinians, some of whom were scheduled to enter Israel for cancer treatment, had arrived at the crossing early on Tuesday, an AFP correspondent said.
There was no immediate confirmation of the closure from COGAT, the Israeli defence ministry unit responsible for the crossing.
But a Hamas official at the site insisted the crossing was not open, and the gate leading to the tunnel that connects the Israeli and Gaza sides of the crossing was closed.
"The border has been closed because of constant Israeli shelling," he said.
The crossing area has been hit previously, but there were no reports of shelling on Monday or Tuesday.
A second official said the crossing would remain closed until they received international assurances that the terminal would be protected from Israeli air strikes.
"We need an international guarantee that the crossing, and the route between the two sides of the crossing, will not be bombed by Israel," he said.
2:09 pm: Israel says it will act forcefully if Hamas breaks ceasefire
After accepting the ceasefire plan proposed by Egypt, Israel said that will act forcefully if Hamas doesn't halt the rocket attacks.
The security cabinet will also undertake an international campaign to dismantle "Hamas' rocket stockpiles, and closing the tunnels inside Gaza," The Jerusalem Post reported.
The report also highlights the reason behind Israel's acceptance of the ceasefire plan -- military action from this point onward would be seen as legitimate.
"Diplomatic officials said the security cabinet's decision to halt the operation at this point will give Israel international legitimacy to continue with widespread military action if Hamas does not stop its rocket attacks," says The Jerusalem Post report.
Read the full article here.
1:47 pm: Gaza death toll rises to 192
The death toll from Israel's week-long campaign in Gaza rose Tuesday to 192, after another six Palestinians died, four of them in strikes before Israel accepted an Egyptian ceasefire.
Emergency services spokesman Ashraf al-Qudra said three people were killed in two separate air strikes on the southern city of Khan Yunis.
And two other men in the city succumbed to injuries sustained in earlier raids, he said.
Also in the south, a woman was killed in an earlier strike on Rafah, taking Tuesday's toll to six dead, he said.
All of the fatalities took place before Israel accepted a 0600 GMT ceasefire proposed by Egypt, despite its rejection by Hamas.
Late Monday, the death toll rose above that of the previous major conflict between Israel and Hamas militants, an eight day confrontation in November 2012 which claimed the lives of 177 Palestinians and six Israelis.
So far, no Israelis have been killed in the week-long fighting in and around Gaza, with only four people seriously injured.
The Gaza-based Palestinian Centre for Human Rights said on Sunday, when the toll stood at over 150, that three quarters of the dead were civilians.
And on Monday, a senior UN official said more than a quarter were children.
The bloodiest day so far was Saturday when 56 Gazans were killed.
Four Israelis have been seriously wounded since the start of the operation. - AFPAFP
1:30 pm: Gaza militants fire 3 rockets despite truce call
The Israeli military says Gaza militants have fired three rockets at Israel since the deadline passed for the start of a cease-fire proposed by Egypt.
The attack came shortly after Israel accepted the Egyptian truce proposal, which Gaza's Hamas rulers swiftly rejected, Associated Press reported.
Under the Egyptian plan, hostilities were to halt by 9 am local time. The military says three rockets were fired at empty lands near the southern Israeli city of Ashkelon. The military says they caused no casualties or damage.
12:44 pm: Hamas rejects Egypt's ceasefire proposal moments after Israel's nod A senior Hamas official says the Palestinian militant group rejects an Egyptian proposal for a cease-fire with Israel.
The official, Sami Abu Zuhri, spoke moments after Israel accepted the offer on Tuesday. Abu Zuhri told The Associated Press that "this proposal is not acceptable."
The Egyptian plan calls for hostilities to end Tuesday morning, followed by negotiations on easing the border blockade of Gaza.
The territory has been under a blockade by Egypt and Israel since Hamas seized Gaza in 2007.
12:00 pm: Israel accepts Egypt's ceasefire proposal
Israel's security cabinet accepted an Egyptian ceasefire proposal, a government spokesman said, after a week of the deadliest violence in and around Gaza in years.
"The cabinet has decided to accept the Egyptian initiative for a ceasefire starting 9am today," Ofir Gendelman, spokesman for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said on Twitter. Ministers in the security cabinet had begun meeting early on Tuesday to consider the Egyptian proposal for a ceasefire to start immediately from 0600 GMT.
Army radio noted that there had been no parallel acceptance of the initiative by Hamas, the Palestinian Islamist movement that controls the Gaza Strip.
There were no immediate reports of rocket fire at Israel after the deadline, with the army saying only two rockets had struck the south overnight, and another two shot were shot down just 15 minutes before the Egyptian initiative came into force.
Overnight, Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhum told AFP there would be no truce without a fully fledged deal to end hostilities.
"In times of war, you don't cease fire and then negotiate," he said. Hamas's armed wing, the Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades, also rejected the proposal as a "surrender", pledging to "intensify" its attacks on Israel.
8:45 am: Hamas rejects peace proposal as "surrender"
The armed wing of Hamas on Tuesday rejected Egyptian proposals for a ceasefire in Gaza, threatening to "intensify" its conflict with Israel if truce terms were unsatisfactory.
"No official or unofficial side has approached us about the ceasefire talked about in the media... (but) if the contents of this proposal are true, it is a surrender and we reject it outright," the Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades said in a statement. "Our battle with the enemy will intensify."
8:38 am: US welcomes Egypt's peace plan for Gaza
The United States on Monday welcomed an an Egyptian proposal to end the raging conflict between Israel and Hamas.
"We welcome Egypt's call for a ceasefire and hope this will lead to the restoration of calm as soon as possible," State Department spokeswoman Jan Psaki said in a statement.
US President Barack Obama on Monday welcomed Egypt's proposal for a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas in Gaza, saying he hoped it could restore calm.
At an Iftar dinner, marking the Muslim Holy month of Ramadan, Obama also said Israel had a right to defend itself against "inexcusable" rocket attacks but described the deaths of Palestinian civilians in the conflict as a "tragedy."
8:30 am: Arab League backs Palestinian demand for international protection
The Arab League on Monday called on "all parties" to accept an Egyptian proposal to end the raging conflict between Israel and Hamas, after the Palestinian militant group signalled its rejection of the truce.
The ministers, meeting for an extraordinary Arab League session, also backed a Palestinian demand for "international protection."
8:21 am: Israeli cabinet to meet to discuss Egyptian peace plan
Israel's security cabinet was to meet early Tuesday to discuss Egyptian proposals for a truce in Gaza, a senior official said, as an aerial campaign against Hamas entered its eighth day.
"The security cabinet will meet early tomorrow to study seriously the Egyptian proposals," the official told AFP, on condition of anonymity.
8:10 am: Lebanese rocket hits northern Israel
A rocket fired from Lebanese territory hit northern Israel on Monday, the army said, after overnight rocket fire from both Syria and Lebanon.
"At least one rocket fired from Lebanon hit an open area north of Nahariya," a coastal city not far from the Lebanese border, the army said in a statement.
No casualties or damage were reported, it added. The army said it responded shortly after with artillery fire "towards the launching site" of the rocket.
A rocket fired from Syria hit the Israeli-occupied sector of the Golan Heights late Sunday, falling on open ground and causing no casualties, the army said.
And early on Monday the army said that "several rockets were fired from Lebanon at the western Galilee, one hitting an open area," with no damage reported.
The army said Israel responded with artillery fire at Syrian military posts and that "hits were identified" and that it also shelled the source of the fire from Lebanon, lodging a complaint with UN peacekeepers.
Sunday's fire was the first of its kind from Syrian territory since Israel launched a fierce air campaign against Gaza on Tuesday with the stated aim of stemming a rising tide of rocket fire by Palestinian militants.
But rockets fired from Lebanon struck northern Israel on Friday and Saturday, without causing casualties. Military officials said they believed the attacks were carried out by a small Palestinian group in an act of solidarity with Gazan militants.
7:29 am: France steps up security after protestors storm synagogue
France stepped up security on Monday after protestors demonstrating against Israel's bombardment of Gaza tried to storm two Paris synagogues.
President Francois Hollande warned that he did not want to see "the Israeli-Palestinian conflict imported into France" after two Jewish men were hurt in clashes that erupted on Sunday.
Several thousand demonstrators joined in the Paris protest on Sunday, with violence breaking out at the end of the march on Bastille Square as people threw projectiles onto a cordon of police who responded with tear gas. A small group tried to break into two synagogues in central Paris, a police source told AFP.
The Jewish men were not badly hurt. Six policemen were also injured. In his traditional Bastille Day television interview, Hollande said he did not want the "consequences" of the conflict playing out in France, and would not tolerate such attacks.
"The conflict between Israel and Palestine cannot be used as an excuse for anti-Semitism." Joel Mergei, president of the Central Israeli Consistory -- the top Jewish religious authority in France, said the violence represented a "new low" after an earlier petrol bomb attack on a synagogue in the suburb of St Denis.
7:24 am: Egypt proposes ceasefire as Gaza death toll reaches 184
Egypt proposed a ceasefire in the conflict between Israel and its Islamist foe Hamas to start at 0600 GMT and be followed by talks on easing the flow goods into Gaza, AFP reported.
The proposal late on Monday came on the eve of a scheduled visit by US Secretary of State John Kerry to Egypt, a traditional broker in Palestinian-Israeli conflicts, to push for a halt to seven days of exchanges that have left 184 Gazans dead.
7:00 am:US warns Israel against ground assault in Gaza
Washington warned it's all Israel against any ground invasion of Gaza, as Egyptian officials said Secretary of State John Kerry was headed to the region to join efforts to end a week of deadly violence.
AFP reported that the White House stopped short of criticising Israel over the civilian casualty toll from its devastating air and artillery bombardment of the densely populated Palestinian enclave that has drawn flak from the United Nations and human rights watchdogs.
It said the Israeli government had the "right" and "responsibility" to defend its citizens against rocket attacks by its Islamist foe Hamas from its Gaza stronghold. But it said even more civilians would be put at risk were Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to heed hardliners in his governing coalition and send in troops and armour.
With Israel's punishing air campaign in its seventh day, the death toll in Gaza hit 177, prompting growing calls for a ceasefire which have so far showed little sign of progress
End of updates for 14 July
11:16 pm: Kerry to visit Egypt to facilitate truce in Gaza
US Secretary of State John Kerry will visit Egypt on Tuesday as pressure piles on Israel and Hamas to end a week-long conflict in Gaza, Egyptian state media reported.
The US top diplomat had telephoned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday to renew an offer to help broker a halt to the rocket fire by Gaza militants and the retaliatory Israeli air and artillery bombardment that has killed 175 Palestinians in the past seven days, AFP reported.
9:22 pm: Hamas lays out conditions for truce
The Palestinian Hamas movement said Monday that it would not end hostilities with Israel without concessions by the Jewish state and that no serious efforts towards a truce had been made.
"Talk of a ceasefire requires real and serious efforts, which we haven't seen so far," Hamas legislative member Mushir al-Masri told AFP in Gaza City. Masri said Hamas would only negotiate on the basis of a set of concessions it wants to see Israel agree to.
Those include the lifting of Israel's blockade on the Gaza Strip, the opening of the Rafah border crossing with Egypt and the release of Palestinian prisoners Israel has rearrested after freeing them in exchange for kidnapped Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit.
"Any ceasefire must be based on the conditions we have outlined, nothing less than that will be accepted," Masri said.
In Cairo, a Hamas official said a general framework had been agreed, and that the group was committed to achieving more than it did in the truce deal that ended the last major round of violence with Israel in 2012.
"We need to build on the 2012 truce and move forward. We don't want to go back," he said.
Masri said that "Arab countries and Islamic countries and Western countries" were involved in discussions about a truce, but declined to give details. He said Hamas was prepared to continue fighting and ready for a "long, drawn-out battle."
1:01 pm: PDP walks out of Lok Sabha protesting strikes in Gaza
Jammu and Kashmir People's Democratic Party today voiced grave concern over killing of "innocent" people, including children, in Gaza following attacks by Israel and staged a walkout in Lok Sabha, PTI reported.
As soon as the House met for the day, PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti wanted to raise the issue saying the House cannot remain silent over the killing of women, children and others in Gaza.
"Why are we silent? Whom are we afraid of? India is the only friend of Palestine since 1947. We have to condemn the attack. We have to discuss," she said, supported by party member Tariq Hameed Karra.
She was supported by E Ahamed (Indian Union Muslim League), Saugata Roy (Trinamool Congress) and P Karunakaran (CPI-M). Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, however, did not allow her to raise the issue saying she can not allow any discussion on the subject without receiving any notice.
"This is not the way. This is not fair. You have not given any notice. I cannot allow," Mahajan said. Unhappy with the Speaker's ruling, PDP members staged a walkout.
12:10 pm: Palestinian killed in clash with Israeli army in West Bank
A Palestinian was killed by the Israeli army in a clash south of the West Bank city of Hebron early on Monday, his family said.
Relatives identified the man as Munir Ahmed Badarin, in his early twenties.
They said he was shot in clashes near Al-Samua, in the southernmost part of the West Bank, and died later in hospital.
11:00 am: Israel claims it has downed an unmanned drone
Israel's military says it has downed an unmanned drone along its southern coastline, the first time it has encountered such a weapon since its struggle with Gaza Strip militants began last week.
The military says the drone came from Gaza and that it was shot down on Monday by a Patriot missile near the southern city of Ashdod.
8:00 am: Gaza death toll hits 172 as Israel's relentless campaign enters 7th day
Israel kept up air strikes and artillery fire on the Gaza Strip Monday despite diplomatic efforts to halt the bloodshed, as its offensive entered the seventh day, AFP reported.
Aircraft struck three training facilities of Hamas's military wing, the Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades, around the coastal territory, but caused no casualties, medics and eyewitnesses said.
They also hit buildings in Gaza City, Deir el-Balah in the southern part of the strip, and in the northern town of Jabaliya, injuring an unspecified number of people.
There was shelling reported in Beit Lahiya, in the far north of the strip, where Israel had earlier warned residents of an impending assault.
Israel also moved against Hamas in the occupied West Bank, arresting at least five of the movement's lawmakers in Nablus and Jenin, Palestinian security officials told AFP.
Israeli media reported that a security cabinet meeting ended late Sunday with no orders for a ground assault. Israeli army radio quoted security sources "at the most senior level" as saying that there were "four channels for attempts to reach a ceasefire -- Qatar, the Palestinian Authority, the Americans and the Egyptians."
"According to those sources the Egyptian channel is the strongest, the most significant and the one that draws together all those channels of mediation," the station's military affairs reporter said.
As the death toll rose, the Gaza-based Palestinian Centre for Human Rights said most of the victims were civilians, putting their number at more than 130, among them 35 children and 26 women.
So far, no Israelis have been killed, although militants in Gaza have pounded the south and centre of the country with about 715 rockets since the fighting began on 8 July, an army spokeswoman told AFP late Sunday. Around 160 had been intercepted, she said.
--End of updates for 13 June--
11:22 pm: 17,000 Palestinians have fled Gaza, says UN
Fearing for their lives, about 17,000 people have taken shelter in installations of the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, UNRWA, the agency said in a statement.
Despite increasing calls for a ceasefire, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the military was hitting Hamas "with growing force", warning there was no end in sight. "We do not know when this operation will end," he told ministers.
11:07 pm: UN chief deplores Palestinian deaths, urges Israel against ground offensive
"Too many" Palestinian civilians have been killed, UN chief Ban Ki-moon said Sunday as he urged Israel to scrap plans for a potentially devastating ground offensive.
Repeating his call for a ceasefire, the secretary-general said he "feels a sense of responsibility for the Palestinians who, especially in the Gaza Strip, have long been denied the sense of freedom and dignity that they deserve," according to a statement released by his spokesman Stephane Dujarric.
The situation in Gaza, with at least 170 Palestinians killed and no Israeli casualties, "appears to be worsening," Ban said, noting that the UN Security Council's call for a ceasefire had not been respected. Reiterating his condemnation of the firing of rockets into Israel by the Islamist movement Hamas that rules Gaza, Ban demanded an "immediate cessation of these indecent attacks."
But a "deeply worried" UN chief also stressed that "too many Palestinian civilians have been killed, and any Israeli ground offensive will undoubtedly increase the death toll and exacerbate civilian suffering in the Gaza Strip."
"It is in the interest of both sides that steps toward dangerous escalation be replaced with immediate measures to end the fighting, thus preventing further casualties and greater risks to regional peace and security," the statement added.
"(Ban) demands both sides move in this direction now."
6:45 pm: Rocket from Syria hits Israel-held Golan
A rocket fired from Syria hit the Israeli-occupied sector of the Golan Heights on Sunday, falling on open ground and causing no casualties, an army spokeswoman told AFP.
"The assumption is that it was not a stray," she said, although there was no immediate report of Israeli retaliation. An Israeli Arab teenager was killed on the border last month by what may have been a rocket, mortar fire or an explosive device, prompting Israel to carry out retaliatory air raids on Syrian army positions.
Sunday's incident was the first of its kind from Syrian territory since Israel on Tuesday launched a fierce air campaign on Gaza with the stated aim of stemming a rising tide of rocket fire by Palestinian militants.
Military officials said they believed the attacks were carried out by a small Palestinian group in an act of solidarity with Gazan militants.
4:40 pm: Kerry tells Netanyahu US prepared to mediate peace talks
US Secretary of State John Kerry on Sunday phoned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to renew a US offer to help mediate a truce as Israel stepped up its military campaign against the Gaza Strip.
Kerry "highlighted the US concern about escalating tensions on the ground," a senior State Department official said. The top US diplomat also told the Israeli leader that he was engaged with regional leaders "to help to stop the rocket fire so calm can be restored and civilian casualties prevented".
Kerry had condemned the militant rocket attacks from Gaza into southern Israel, and "stressed Israel's right to defend itself".
But he also "underscored the United States' readiness to facilitate a cessation of hostilities, including a return to the November 2012 ceasefire agreement." Despite increasing calls for a ceasefire, Netanyahu said the military was hitting Hamas "with growing force," warning there was no end in sight.
"We do not know when this operation will end," he told ministers. Top diplomats from Britain, France, Germany and the United States were due to discuss truce efforts in Vienna on Sunday on the sidelines of talks on Iran.
Britain's Foreign Secretary William Hague said earlier as he arrived for talks that "there is an urgent need to bring an end to the violence in Gaza."
Israel has warned that preparations are under way for a possible ground incursion, with Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman saying a decision was expected later Sunday, at a meeting of the security cabinet. But commentators said Israel was not in a rush to begin a ground operation.
3:53 pm: Palestinian prez asks for UN protection as Israel intensifies strikes
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas is to ask the United Nations to put the state of Palestine under "international protection" in light of the worsening violence in the Gaza Strip, AFP reported the PLO as saying.
"President Abbas will present a letter to the UN Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process, Robert Serry, addressed to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, to officially put the State of Palestine under the UN international protection system and to form a legal committee for immediate follow-up," it said in a statement.
Abbas also wants a commission of inquiry into Israel's massive air bombardment of the Gaza Strip in an attempt to halt militant rocket fire into the Jewish state. "Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas is undertaking several steps and measures to deal with the horrific situation in Gaza," senior Palestine Liberation Organisation member Hanan Ashrawi said in a statement after a meeting of the PLO executive.
Abbas has asked Switzerland, the depository of the fourth Geneva Convention on the protection of civilians in wartime, to summon the contracting parties and ask them to place sanctions on Israel as the occupying power responsible under the convention for the safety of civilians.
Its recognition by the UN as a non-member state has allowed Palestine to sign several international conventions, including the Geneva Conventions.
10:47 am: Israel's campaign in Gaza enters 6th day as death toll hits 166
Israeli strikes on Gaza killed a teenager and a woman on Sunday, medics said, raising the overall death toll to 166 as the punishing air campaign entered its sixth day, AFP reported.
One strike on the northern town of Jabaliya struck a house, killing a 14-year-old boy, emergency services spokesman Ashraf al-Qudra said. Shortly afterwards, another strike killed a woman in the Maghazi refugee camp in central Gaza, he said.
A man was killed in a raid on Beit Hanun in northern Gaza, where the Israeli army has warned it will sharply escalate its offensive and had urged residents to flee. Elsewhere another person succumbed to injuries from an earlier strike, Qudra said, giving an overall toll of 166 dead. More than 1,000 people have been wounded.
Witnesses in the southern city of Rafah also reported seeing gunmen killing a man in the middle of the street in what appeared to be the execution of someone suspected of collaborating with Israel.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility from any of Gaza's armed factions. Saturday was the bloodiest day by far of the operation, with 52 people killed.
The deadliest strike was in Gaza City just before midnight (2100 GMT) in the eastern Tuffah district where 18 people were killed in strikes that hit the house of Hamas police chief Tayseer al-Batsh and a mosque, medics said.
Batsh survived but was reportedly in critical condition, with around 50 people wounded in the strikes.
Israel began Operation Protective Edge before dawn on Tuesday in an attempt to halt cross-border rocket fire by militant groups. Since then, approximately 660 rockets have hit Israel, while another 173 were intercepted by the Iron Dome air defence system, the army said.
On Sunday, 30 rockets struck Israel, while another five were shot down, a spokeswoman said. No Israelis have been killed, and only three people have been seriously wounded since the start of the operation, one them a 16-year-old boy who was injured on Sunday during a strike on the coastal town of Ashkelon, medics said.
By Sunday morning, the Israeli military said it had struck 1,320 "terror targets" across Gaza, including 735 rocket launchers, 64 training bases and militant compounds, and 32 Hamas leadership facilities. More than 20 targets were hit overnight, the army said.
