Egypt proposes ceasefire between Israel, Palestine as Hamas drone capable of carrying weapons is shot down - NY Daily News
A ceasefire agreement proposed by Egypt could have ended the mushrooming Israeli-Palestinian conflict as early as Tuesday morning -- but at least one side may have been poised to reject it.
The proposal was made by Egypt's Foreign Ministry late Monday after Israel shot down the first Hamas drone launched in the weeklong violence and intercepted a barrage of rockets fired from Gaza and Syria.
The Egyptian initiative called for both sides to hold their fire starting at 9 a.m. Tuesday, and for Israel to set aside plans for a ground offensive. The proposal also called for the reopening of crossings between the Gaza Strip and Israel, to allow "movement of goods and persons," according to a statement released by Egypt.
The Israeli security cabinet was scheduled to meet Tuesday morning to discuss the proposal. Sources told The Jerusalem Post that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu would recommend his security cabinet accept the ceasefire plan.
But several Hamas officials reportedly rejected the proposal late Monday, with a spokesman saying, "We are still under occupation, and resistance is the right of our people," according to Haaretz newspaper.
News of a possible breakthrough in the hostilities came as Secretary of State Kerry opted not to extend a nine-day diplomatic trip by stopping in Cairo on Tuesday to discuss the conflict.
The Egyptian plan provided for a cooling-off period and the start of indirect talks on a truce between Israel's government and Palestinian factions within 48 hours.
The twist in the escalating feud followed another day of violence in the region. A Hamas drone capable of carrying weapons was shot down Monday by a Patriot missile along the southern Israeli coast.
"It was shot to smithereens," Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, a spokesman for the Israeli military, told reporters.
Lefteris Pitarakis/AP Palestinians walk on the rubble of a house following an overnight strike. Hamas officials have said they have 'surprises' in store for Israel.
Israeli officials said it was the first time Hamas militants had launched a drone since fighting escalated last week.
But in a taunting message posted on its website Monday, Hamas leaders said the drone was one of the "surprises" it has aimed at Israel. The group also posted a photo of one of its drones and said it had launched two into Israel on Monday, including one that hovered over the headquarters of Israel Defense Forces in Tel Aviv.
It was not immediately clear if the drone shot down Monday was armed, but Hamas officials said it was modeled after the Iranian Ababil-1, which can carry explosives or surveillance equipment and fly up to 150 miles.
The drone scare came as a volley of rockets continued to fly back and forth between Israel and militants in Gaza.
Israeli military officials said the nation had launched more than 1,300 air strikes on the Gaza Strip since last Tuesday, while Hamas militants have fired nearly 1,000 rockets at Israel.
The Health Ministry in Hamas-controlled Gaza said the death toll was up to 185, and that 1,100 people had been wounded. Defense of Children International said at least 15 Palestinian children have been killed.
Israel says it's trying to reduce civilian casualties with a "Knock on Door" strategy for launching missiles into populated areas of Gaza.
A video released Monday by the Gaza-based media agency Watania captured the controversial maneuver in action. The footage first showed an Israeli warning missile, absent a warhead, slamming into the roof of a three-story Gaza residential building, followed 15 minutes later by a rocket armed with a warhead that demolished the building.
JACK GUEZ/AFP/Getty Images An Israeli soldier prepares to launch an Israeli army's Skylark I unmanned drone aircraft, which is used for monitoring purposes, on Monday.
Israeli officials said the tactic gives civilians time to clear the building before it is destroyed.
Israel reported that its so-called Iron Dome defense system intercepted several rockets fired from Gaza, including one Monday night over Tel Aviv.
Another rocket, fired from Syria, landed in Israel's Golan Heights area, but no casualties were reported. Shrapnel from one of the intercepted rockets fell on the neighboring towns of Petah Tikva and Bnei Brak in central Israel, injuring two sisters, ages 10 and 15, Israeli officials said.
The fighting was touched off last month by the kidnappings and murders of three Israeli boys that Israel blamed on Hamas. The shocking slayings were followed by the revenge killing of a 16-year-old Palestinian boy, who was bludgeoned and set on fire. Police announced Monday that a 29-year-old Israeli man and two 17-year-old accomplices had confessed to the killing and were set to be formally charged Friday with kidnapping and murder.
