Time Warner is girding to fight Murdoch's takeover offer - LA Times
Time Warner Chairman and Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes is in an uncomfortable position: The cross hairs of Rupert Murdoch.
For the last six years, Bewkes has presided over Time Warner, a genteel media company known for its sterling assets such as HBO, CNN and Warner Bros. movie and television studio. He has also systematically shed problematic assets, including AOL and magazine unit Time Inc.
The reshaping of Time Warner made the company more lean but inadvertently made it a perfect takeover target. And now Murdoch and his 21st Century Fox team are banging on the door.
"Time Warner will turn hostile and do everything in its power to prevent being taken over," predicted longtime media analyst Hal Vogel. "But if Rupert gets obsessed about having to buy Time Warner, and he does tend to get obsessed about these things, then he will end up overpaying."
Bewkes and other board members turned down Fox's $80-billion cash-and-stock offer. The company said it had no interest in pursuing discussions with Fox, calling its offer too low and questioning whether Fox's management was up to the task of leading such a huge conglomerate.
He said in a video message delivered to employees on the company's website that the board was unified in its belief that Time Warner would be stronger and more profitable on its own. He said the company was executing on its business plan, which was "superior to any proposal that Fox is in a position to offer."
But Time Warner is still girding for battle.
Nervous executives huddled in meetings in New York and Burbank on Thursday. Top management is "very resolved" to fend off Murdoch's advances, according to a Time Warner executive who asked not to be identified discussing strategy.
Analysts are not so certain that's the case. Wall Street clearly expects Fox to sweeten its offer. Shares of Time Warner jumped for the second straight day on Thursday, and are now up 21% at $86.12 since Fox's offer became public.
Murdoch might even be willing to go as high as $100 a share, according to Wells Fargo Securities senior analyst Marci Ryvicker. That would place the deal's value at $91 billion.
The key question, according to veteran media analyst Michael Nathanson, is: "At what price is 21st Century Fox willing to walk away?"
The answer is not clear. Fox executives plan to be disciplined in their pursuit of Time Warner, according to people familiar with the company's strategy.
Fox's stock closed down 23 cents at $32.77 on Thursday. But the stock hasn't collapsed, which the company takes as an encouraging sign that investors are supporting the takeover attempt.
Longtime observers point to Murdoch's pursuit of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co. as an example of the mogul's tenacity. Initially, the owners rebuffed Murdoch until the money -- at $5.6 billion -- became too good to pass up.
"Time Warner will try to resist or just extract the highest price possible," Vogel said. He placed the odds at about 50/50 as to whether Fox would prevail.
Several analysts wondered whether some other deep-pocketed bidder, such as Google Inc., might jump into the fray and make a bid for Time Warner.
Fox appears to be counting on investors to pressure Time Warner to accept a deal.
One reason for Fox's optimism: About 70% of Time Warner's shareholders also own Fox stock. Fox could use its connections with many big institutional investors to lobby for a deal.
Time Warner executives, particularly in the film business, fretted about a possible Fox takeover. Analysts have said that $1 billion to $2 billion could be saved by eliminating overlapping functions throughout the combined entity.
Warner Bros.' film studio is the largest in Hollywood, and known for spending more freely than competitors. 20th Century Fox, in contrast, maintains a reputation for being more tightfisted.
However, it is believed that the two studios would operate independently, at least, in the initial years.
Warner Bros. traditionally finishes No. 1 or No. 2 in the domestic box office market share. Last year, its films accounted for about 17% of the domestic box office, according to an analysis by the research firm MoffettNathanson. Fox films represented 11% of the market.
Buoyed by the strong performance of films including "X-Men: Days of Future Past" and "The Fault in Our Stars," 20th Century Fox is No. 1 in domestic box office market share this year, according to data from entertainment analytics firm Rentrak. Warner Bros. is No. 2.
Both studios have had their share of recent hits and disappointments. Warner Bros. can count "The Lego Movie" and "Godzilla" as successes, but it fared poorly with summer movies including "Blended" and "Jersey Boys."
Bill Gerber, who has a production deal at Warner Bros., said he doesn't believe a Fox takeover is "a foregone conclusion."
"I don't think people feel that consolidation is inevitable, but I think people are very concerned about it and want to know what's going to happen to them in the event of a merger," said Gerber, who produced last year's "Grudge Match" and served as Warner Bros.' worldwide president of theatrical production in the mid-1990s.
Gerber said that "Bewkes is up to the challenge" of fending off Fox.
If the two companies were to combine, Fox would control the output of more than a third of all scripted shows on the major broadcast networks.
20th Century Fox Television studio, which produces such hits as "Modern Family" and "Family Guy" is currently producing 20 prime-time shows for the major networks. Warner Bros., traditionally the most profitable TV studio with such hits as "Big Bang Theory," is producing 28 prime-time shows for the upcoming season.
The combined company would have a fleet of profitable cable channels, including Fox News, FX, TNT, TBS and Fox's sports channels. Murdoch has said it would sell Time Warner's cable news channel CNN to make the deal more palatable to regulators and lawmakers.

Amazon tipped to push into content after Murdoch's Time Warner bid
Taking out Time Warner would bring shows such as HBO's "Game of Thrones" into Murdoch's fold, potentially driving Google and Amazon to produce more own content, analysts said.
After Rupert Murdoch's attempt to grab Time Warner, online giants Amazon.com and Google may decide to accelerate their expansion into content.
The bid from 21st Century Fox would create the world's biggest media company and bring HBO's "Game of Thrones" and "The Lego Movie" into Murdoch's fold. Amazon has started creating original TV shows, and Google's YouTube has funded filmmakers to fill new channels, though neither is a formidable competitor to Netflix or Hulu. A takeout of Time Warner could drive Google and Amazon to get more serious about expanding, analysts said.
The Internet companies may prefer to sign licensing deals or build more content on their own, said JMP Group. If they wanted to be bolder, Google or Amazon could buy their way to more programming with a purchase of "The Hunger Games" maker Lions Gate Entertainment, or Amazon could even buy Electronic Arts, CRT Capital Group said. French video-game maker Ubisoft Entertainment would be easier to digest, said Bank of Montreal. Google could even go as far as to make a bid for Time Warner, according to Wunderlich Securities.
Should Fox and Time Warner combine, "a lot of chips are in one hat at that point," said Neil Doshi, an analyst at CRT. Amazon and Google would "have to get pretty aggressive in terms of how they think about content, what they want to do."
Advertisement
Representatives for Google and Amazon didn't respond to requests for comment.
Offer Confirmation
Time Warner, the owner of HBO, confirmed this week that it received a more than $US75 billion ($80 billion) offer from Fox. While it rejected the bid, Murdoch is willing to pay even more, people with knowledge of the matter said - a sign the billionaire is undeterred by the rebuff.
The confirmation comes after Time Warner Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes was asked last week whether Google or Fox would be interested in a purchase. If Time Warner is in play, Google may be inclined to weigh an offer.
The potential acquisition sparked a rally in US media stocks representing about $US90 billion of shareholder value as investors bet it may presage more consolidation. Content providers could combine to build scale and strengthen their power to negotiate with distributors, which are striking deals of their own. It could also mean Amazon and Google may want to double down on content.
Working Plans
Proprietary shows and movies are appealing to the Internet companies because it gives consumers one more reason to engage with their platforms. Amazon has already been developing programming and financing pilot episodes for children's shows and comedies to air through the company's Instant Video service.
A few years ago, Google announced it would spend about $US100 million to support video programming on YouTube. The company also said last year that the site would begin selling subscriptions to film and TV services over the internet to compete with Netflix.
Amazon and Google "are trying to build this consumer ecosystem to be the one-stop shop for media consumption," said Kerry Rice, an analyst at Needham & Co.
Exclusive Producers
A takeover of a company such as $US4.4 billion Lions Gate by either Amazon or Google could make sense, said Doshi of CRT. Alibaba Group, China's biggest e-commerce company, is teaming up with Lions Gate to stream Hollywood movies and TV shows through a new set-top box.
"A lot of these movie studios want to get deeper entrenched in online," Doshi said. "And if Amazon or Netflix or Google has deep pockets and is willing to pay a lot of money to do deals, I don't know if it would be too far off for one of these companies to potentially acquire a movie studio and be able to make movies exclusively for their subscribers."
For Google, a deal would bolster the YouTube brand and allow the company to charge more for advertising on a high-quality film, the analyst said. Yesterday, the company reported sales that exceeded analyst estimates.
Amazon could consider buying a video-game maker, maybe even a company as large as Electronic Arts, which is valued at $US11.6 billion, to drive more people to gaming on its Fire TV system, according to Doshi.
Ubisoft, with a market value of about $US2 billion, may be a more logical first step into video-game content for Amazon should it pursue that path, said Edward Williams of BMO.
'Left Field'
"Amazon could step in and buy a console game company and then look to help that company take its content onto mobile through the Kindle ecosystem," the analyst said in a phone interview from New York. "Buying an Ubisoft, which is a fraction of the size of EA, financially is just an easier one to swallow. It's definitely a left-field move, but it'd be kind of an intriguing one."
Getting bigger in content doesn't necessarily mean acquisitions. Buying a major media company is a risky and expensive endeavor, and Amazon and Google may prefer to just license shows and movies or negotiate a joint venture arrangement, said James McQuivey, an analyst at Forrester Research.
"Frankly, owning the content creates all kinds of hassles," he said. "I think most of these companies would want to think twice."
Buying an established content producer could undermine the neutrality of the companies' platforms, said Ron Josey of JMP Securities. Amazon and Google may also prefer to develop their own shows and movies. Such a move would mimic Netflix, whose "House of Cards" and "Orange is the New Black" have grown in popularity.
"Both of these companies are sufficiently large, they can sort of do whatever they want," said Josey. Google and Amazon probably "feel they can at least give it a good try on their own before they have to go out and buy someone to have that type of offering. History suggests that they believe they can build things just as well as anybody."
Bloomberg News
