Hobby Lobby: Believe it or not | The Economist
Pro-lifers are elated
TWO years ago the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. A decision on June 30th was less favourable. The Court allowed an exception to Obamacare's mandate that firms above a certain size offer their staff insurance that includes free contraception. Rarely has a decision provoked such controversy. Hillary Clinton called it "deeply disturbing" , though her husband signed the law that underpins it.
The case, Burwell v Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc, was brought by two Christian families and their businesses. The Greens own Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft shops, and Mardel, a Christian bookstore; the Hahns own Conestoga Wood Specialties, a cabinetmaker. Obamacare requires firms to offer their workers all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The Greens and Hahns believe that four of those contraceptives, including the "morning-after pill", are abortifacients, since they may keep a fertilised egg from implanting in the uterine wall.
In this section
Related topics
The issue was not whether these highly debatable beliefs are valid, but the circumstances under which a religious objection may trump a federal law. The constitution protects the right to the "free exercise" of religion. A 1993 law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, further requires that the government "shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion" unless doing so is the least restrictive way to advance a compelling government interest. By five votes to four, the court ruled that obliging closely held firms with religious owners to pay for their employees' contraceptives violates that principle.
The government had argued that Hobby Lobby could not claim to have religious beliefs because it is a for-profit corporation. "While the Greens are persons who exercise religion, there is a critical separation between the Greens and the corporation they have elected to create," the government's lawyers insisted. A company has rights and obligations that differ from those of its owners. That includes being subject to Obamacare's employer mandate, they argued.
The court's conservative justices disagreed. "Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby, Conestoga and Mardel protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control these companies," wrote Justice Samuel Alito. If Hobby Lobby refused to cover the four contraceptives, it faced fines of up to $475m a year, which Mr Alito said clearly counted as a "substantial burden". And the government had other, less onerous ways to provide contraception, he argued. For example, it could pay for contraception itself or include for-profit companies in an "accommodation" already made for non-profit religious organisations, such as Catholic universities. Under that accommodation, insurers cover the cost of contraception, without raising prices for employers or their workers.
Mr Alito insisted that the ruling was a narrow one, applying only to closely held firms under very specific circumstances. It is unclear how the government will now ensure that women with religious employers obtain free contraception. The "accommodation" may not be viable; its legality is being challenged by separate suits. Some women may have to pay for their own contraceptives. (Since the cost of company-provided insurance comes largely out of wages, many women with employer coverage are already paying some of the cost of their contraceptives.)
The ruling could make it harder to enforce the Obamacare mandate that employers offer health insurance (a mandate that has already been delayed). Many firms are "closely held", including some that employ tens of thousands of workers. These companies may now seek exemptions from other parts of the mandate.
On July 1st the Supreme Court ordered lower courts to revisit objections to a broader set of contraceptives, in addition to the four raised by Hobby Lobby. In future, companies might challenge Obamacare's mandate to cover immunisations, blood transfusions or medicines derived from pigs, though none has yet done so. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the decision was of "startling breadth". Companies, she wrote, "can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."

Democrats: Hobby Lobby ruling could boost 2014 hopes - James Hohmann - POLITICO.com
Democrats may be decrying the Supreme Court's Hobby Lobby ruling, but the party's campaign strategists believe they can use it to their benefit in this year's midterm elections.
Despite the legal setback for Obamacare, the strategists hope the ruling will boost Democrats' efforts to keep the Senate by persuading some Republican-leaning women to defect in states with competitive races while galvanizing younger women who typically don't vote in midterms. They argue the 5-4 decision dovetails well with claims that the GOP is waging a "war on women," a charge they have used effectively in recent elections.
Continue Reading
Monday's decision "is a disappointment for Democrats, but it does put a big welcome spotlight on Republicans' support for 'personhood' [initiatives] and other measures that would go much further than today's decision to outlaw common forms of birth control," said Matt Canter, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee deputy executive director.
(Also on POLITICO: Hobby Lobby ruling full text)
Republicans, however, are framing the ruling as a victory for religious freedom, and -- more germane to their 2014 strategy -- another blow to the president and his signature health law. They argue that Democrats can't count on voters making contraception a priority come November at a time when jobs, the economy and problems with the health law loom large.
"Individual news cycles in general don't shape the election," a senior GOP strategist said. "If anything, it's another dent and crack in Obamacare's armor. If the discussion is about Obamacare, it helps Republicans more than Democrats. If it's about birth control, then it doesn't."
The ruling allows for-profit employers with religious objections to opt out of the health law's contraception coverage mandate. It is relatively narrow and deals with just one small part of the health law, but it is Obamacare opponents' most important legal victory yet in their efforts to unravel the law.
Democrats said the decision could help their Senate incumbents on the margins in Colorado, North Carolina and Montana. It may also help male Democrats running in Michigan and Iowa, purple states with open Senate races where Republicans nominated women.
(Also on POLITICO: W.H. slams SCOTUS ruling)
"The voters in those states that will decide the election are Republican-leaning, moderate women in suburban areas," a Senate Democratic strategist said. "Access to contraception is a driver of the vote there and extremely persuasive to those voters."
Democrats and allies, in a bid to raise turnout among women, have already been running ads highlighting past support by GOP candidates for so-called personhood legislation, which codifies the idea that life starts at conception. These laws would have far-reaching consequences -- putting the legality of in vitro fertilization in question, for instance -- which is why even states such as Mississippi have rejected such ballot initiatives.
Colorado could prove the clearest test this year of whether the Democrats' efforts to highlight personhood and contraception will work as well as their "war on women" strategy did in 2012.
Earlier this month, Democratic Sen. Mark Udall went on the air with two ads -- one suggesting that his Republican challenger, Cory Gardner, would take away contraception and the second talking up a woman's right to choose more generally.
In a sign of how potent the issue could be in the Rocky Mountain State, Gardner immediately responded with a Web video, later used as a TV ad, renouncing his past support for "personhood" initiatives, which were twice rejected in statewide referendums. He also followed up with an op-ed in The Denver Post calling for birth control to be available over the counter.
On Monday, Udall's campaign used the court ruling to attack Gardner for legislation he co-sponsored as a congressman in 2011 and 2013, which it said would have allowed employers to remove medications or procedures from employee health plans if they conflicted with personal beliefs.
"Today the Supreme Court followed Congressman Cory Gardner's lead in putting a woman's boss in charge of her family planning decisions," said the Udall campaign's Kim Howard.
(Also on POLITICO: SCOTUS ignites contraception, Obamacare fight)
Gardner praised the court for protecting "religious liberty and the First Amendment," but he also went on to argue: "The Food and Drug Administration now needs to move quickly to make oral contraceptives available to adults without a prescription. This easy step will make oral contraceptives both accessible and affordable for every woman who wants them. It's common sense, and it's the right thing to do."
The court ruling also could reverberate in other states with competitive Senate contests, such as North Carolina and Michigan, where the Democrat-allied Senate Majority PAC has been running ads on personhood and related issues.
"If you're trying so desperately to run away from your record on personhood, this thrusts it back into the spotlight," said Senate Majority PAC's campaign director, Ty Matsdorf. "It makes it real. People now realize that this is not just some kind of hypothetical campaign threat."
The National Republican Senatorial Committee's Brad Dayspring countered that if highlighting the case is a winner, then President Barack Obama would not have delivered a previously unannounced Rose Garden speech on Monday afternoon devoted entirely to executive action on immigration.
"Democrats are flailing, trying desperately to motivate their base and the 2012 Obama coalition but coming up short," Dayspring said. "The Democratic political committees that spent the morning arguing that the Supreme Court's decision was a political winner were muted by President Obama's latest threats of imperial action during a speech that tried to divert attention from the latest Obamacare failure."
In North Carolina, where he is trying to oust Democratic Sen. Kay Hagan, Republican Senate nominee Thom Tillis tweeted: "Today's SCOTUS rulings were a win for our 1st Amendment freedoms, a loss for Hagan, Obama, & DC bureaucrats."
Hagan's campaign responded that "the contrast on women's health in North Carolina could not be clearer today."
"Kay has a record of standing up to protect women's access to basic preventive care, while Thom Tillis sees no problem with letting employers make personal health decisions for women," spokeswoman Sadie Weiner said.
In Michigan, Democrats have previously attacked Republican candidate Terri Lynn Land for her strong opposition to abortion. She responded with an ad aimed at mocking the war on women, in which she stared into the camera quietly while sipping her coffee. The commercial has been widely ridiculed, including by GOP pollster Frank Luntz in a recent Fox News segment. Land, who polls show is trailing among women, is running against Democratic Rep. Gary Peters.
