Hobby Lobby: Believe it or not | The Economist
Pro-lifers are elated
TWO years ago the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. A decision on June 30th was less favourable. The Court allowed an exception to Obamacare's mandate that firms above a certain size offer their staff insurance that includes free contraception. Rarely has a decision provoked such controversy. Hillary Clinton called it "deeply disturbing" , though her husband signed the law that underpins it.
The case, Burwell v Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc, was brought by two Christian families and their businesses. The Greens own Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft shops, and Mardel, a Christian bookstore; the Hahns own Conestoga Wood Specialties, a cabinetmaker. Obamacare requires firms to offer their workers all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The Greens and Hahns believe that four of those contraceptives, including the "morning-after pill", are abortifacients, since they may keep a fertilised egg from implanting in the uterine wall.
In this section
Related topics
The issue was not whether these highly debatable beliefs are valid, but the circumstances under which a religious objection may trump a federal law. The constitution protects the right to the "free exercise" of religion. A 1993 law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, further requires that the government "shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion" unless doing so is the least restrictive way to advance a compelling government interest. By five votes to four, the court ruled that obliging closely held firms with religious owners to pay for their employees' contraceptives violates that principle.
The government had argued that Hobby Lobby could not claim to have religious beliefs because it is a for-profit corporation. "While the Greens are persons who exercise religion, there is a critical separation between the Greens and the corporation they have elected to create," the government's lawyers insisted. A company has rights and obligations that differ from those of its owners. That includes being subject to Obamacare's employer mandate, they argued.
The court's conservative justices disagreed. "Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby, Conestoga and Mardel protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control these companies," wrote Justice Samuel Alito. If Hobby Lobby refused to cover the four contraceptives, it faced fines of up to $475m a year, which Mr Alito said clearly counted as a "substantial burden". And the government had other, less onerous ways to provide contraception, he argued. For example, it could pay for contraception itself or include for-profit companies in an "accommodation" already made for non-profit religious organisations, such as Catholic universities. Under that accommodation, insurers cover the cost of contraception, without raising prices for employers or their workers.
Mr Alito insisted that the ruling was a narrow one, applying only to closely held firms under very specific circumstances. It is unclear how the government will now ensure that women with religious employers obtain free contraception. The "accommodation" may not be viable; its legality is being challenged by separate suits. Some women may have to pay for their own contraceptives. (Since the cost of company-provided insurance comes largely out of wages, many women with employer coverage are already paying some of the cost of their contraceptives.)
The ruling could make it harder to enforce the Obamacare mandate that employers offer health insurance (a mandate that has already been delayed). Many firms are "closely held", including some that employ tens of thousands of workers. These companies may now seek exemptions from other parts of the mandate.
On July 1st the Supreme Court ordered lower courts to revisit objections to a broader set of contraceptives, in addition to the four raised by Hobby Lobby. In future, companies might challenge Obamacare's mandate to cover immunisations, blood transfusions or medicines derived from pigs, though none has yet done so. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the decision was of "startling breadth". Companies, she wrote, "can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."


Obama roundtable planned with veteran reps in Phoenix
 Dennis Wagner, The Republic | azcentral.com 10:04 p.m. MST March 11, 2015
obama.
Chuck Byers of Vietnam Veterans of America is mulling the many questions he might ask if he could address President Barack Obama during a roundtable event Friday at the Phoenix VA medical center.

"I might ask, "Honestly, President Obama, would you come into the VA's ER if you had a medical emergency?' "

"I think the VA system is still broken," he added. "There's a lot of smoke and mirrors, and it's so big."

A White House spokesman declined to confirm Friday's plans, but at least four veteran service organizations said they expect to deploy Arizona representatives to meet with Obama and VA Secretary Robert McDonald. The American Legion, Disabled American Veterans and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America reported they are hoping to have members at the sit-down along with the Veterans of Foreign Wars.

Gretchen Anderson, a national spokeswoman for IAVA, said her organization will be represented by Cara Hammer Campbell of Phoenix, a U.S. Army veteran who served in Iraq and now works as program manager for the Pat Tillman Foundation.

Campbell said representing vets is "an exciting opportunity I take very seriously." She said she hopes to ask Obama how to restore trust to the VA, and to suggest that it begins with ensuring an atmosphere of respect and accountability. "Screw the bureaucracy of the system and chop out the people who don't belong there," Hammer said, "because employee complacency kills people."

Andres Jaime Jr., state commander of the American Legion, said he was still awaiting an invitation from the White House late Wednesday. "They may not even let me in," he joked, "but then I'll be standing outside."

Jaime said members of his organization continue to complain of frustration and pain they experience at VA facilities due to delays in care. He said he wants to speak with Obama and McDonald about doctor shortages and confusion with the Choice Card, which allows some veterans to get treatment outside the VA.

His question: "What can you do to encourage physicians to come and work for the VA?"

Greg Kozakiewicz, Arizona VFW commander, said his organization is to be represented at the roundtable by Raymond K. Thomas, the state adjutant general who also is national inspector general.

Obama will be making his first stop at the Phoenix hospital since the nationwide scandal over health care for veterans erupted in Arizona 11 months ago. It also will be the president's first participation in roundtables that McDonald has been conducting.

Some politicians and veterans' advocacy groups criticized Obama in January when he visited Phoenix without stopping by the Carl T. Hayden VA Medical Center. Byers, the VVA official, said that incident triggers another potential question: "Mr. President, why are you coming here now?"

"I mean, he's a busy guy, so I'm sure there are reasons. But we're the epicenter," Byers said. "I think there have been some improvements. But there's still a long way to go."

Former Maricopa County Attorney Rick Romley, a veterans' advocate and U.S. Marine who lost both legs above the knees in Vietnam, said he thinks Obama's visit reflects "a recognition in Washington, D.C., that Phoenix is Ground Zero" for the VA crisis.

"No. 1, it's a statement by the president that he cares about veterans' issues," Romley said. "No. 2, he's sending a message to the secretary and VA administrators here that says, 'I'm looking at Phoenix.' "


The Phoenix VA Medical Center issued a notice to employees and patients that Friday's visit by President Barack Obama and VA Secretary Robert McDonald could magnify a severe parking shortage caused by construction of a new garage.

Spokeswoman Jean Schaefer said the health care facility at Indian School Road and Seventh Street will be open, and no patient appointments are to be canceled unless requested by veterans.

But staffers have been advised to work from home when that is an option, with supervisory approval.

The notice says traffic around the campus will be tightly controlled Friday, and some parking restrictions will be in place beginning Thursday evening.

Obama's stopover in Phoenix on Friday is expected to last about four hours.