Hobby Lobby: Believe it or not | The Economist
Pro-lifers are elated
TWO years ago the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. A decision on June 30th was less favourable. The Court allowed an exception to Obamacare's mandate that firms above a certain size offer their staff insurance that includes free contraception. Rarely has a decision provoked such controversy. Hillary Clinton called it "deeply disturbing" , though her husband signed the law that underpins it.
The case, Burwell v Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc, was brought by two Christian families and their businesses. The Greens own Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft shops, and Mardel, a Christian bookstore; the Hahns own Conestoga Wood Specialties, a cabinetmaker. Obamacare requires firms to offer their workers all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The Greens and Hahns believe that four of those contraceptives, including the "morning-after pill", are abortifacients, since they may keep a fertilised egg from implanting in the uterine wall.
In this section
Related topics
The issue was not whether these highly debatable beliefs are valid, but the circumstances under which a religious objection may trump a federal law. The constitution protects the right to the "free exercise" of religion. A 1993 law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, further requires that the government "shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion" unless doing so is the least restrictive way to advance a compelling government interest. By five votes to four, the court ruled that obliging closely held firms with religious owners to pay for their employees' contraceptives violates that principle.
The government had argued that Hobby Lobby could not claim to have religious beliefs because it is a for-profit corporation. "While the Greens are persons who exercise religion, there is a critical separation between the Greens and the corporation they have elected to create," the government's lawyers insisted. A company has rights and obligations that differ from those of its owners. That includes being subject to Obamacare's employer mandate, they argued.
The court's conservative justices disagreed. "Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby, Conestoga and Mardel protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control these companies," wrote Justice Samuel Alito. If Hobby Lobby refused to cover the four contraceptives, it faced fines of up to $475m a year, which Mr Alito said clearly counted as a "substantial burden". And the government had other, less onerous ways to provide contraception, he argued. For example, it could pay for contraception itself or include for-profit companies in an "accommodation" already made for non-profit religious organisations, such as Catholic universities. Under that accommodation, insurers cover the cost of contraception, without raising prices for employers or their workers.
Mr Alito insisted that the ruling was a narrow one, applying only to closely held firms under very specific circumstances. It is unclear how the government will now ensure that women with religious employers obtain free contraception. The "accommodation" may not be viable; its legality is being challenged by separate suits. Some women may have to pay for their own contraceptives. (Since the cost of company-provided insurance comes largely out of wages, many women with employer coverage are already paying some of the cost of their contraceptives.)
The ruling could make it harder to enforce the Obamacare mandate that employers offer health insurance (a mandate that has already been delayed). Many firms are "closely held", including some that employ tens of thousands of workers. These companies may now seek exemptions from other parts of the mandate.
On July 1st the Supreme Court ordered lower courts to revisit objections to a broader set of contraceptives, in addition to the four raised by Hobby Lobby. In future, companies might challenge Obamacare's mandate to cover immunisations, blood transfusions or medicines derived from pigs, though none has yet done so. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the decision was of "startling breadth". Companies, she wrote, "can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."

The Hobby Lobby ruling proves men of the law still can't get over 'immoral' women having sex | Jessica Valenti | Comment is free | theguardian.com
Thirty-five years ago, cultural critic Ellen Willis wrote, "it is depressing to have to insist that sex is not an unnecessary, morally dubious self-indulgence but a basic human need, no less for women than for men".
If it was depressing in 1979, it looks downright miserable today.
Because let's be clear: While Monday's US supreme court ruling in favor of Hobby Lobby was officially about religious freedom, the real issue at stake is sex - namely, if women should be able to have it as freely as men.
The court ruled - in a 5-4 decision in which all the female justices dissented - that a closely-held company does not have to cover contraception under the Affordable Care Act. Hobby Lobby argued that, as a corporation, it has religious objections to certain forms of contraception that it believes are "abortifacients" (they are not). But the underlying values that drove this company to sue - and spurred a national debate - is the belief that women having pre-marital or non-procreative sex is wrong.
There is a reason that the first large-scale cultural reaction to the issue of insurance coverage for birth control was a female law student being called a "slut". Sandra Fluke's testimony to a congressional committee in favor of contraceptive coverage for a friend's serious medical condition set off an apoplectic frenzy of sexually-based attacks on her - and they weren't just limited to pundit Rush Limbaugh calling her a "slut" and "prostitute" on the air. (Even today, I still see tweets calling her a "whore".)
More than 30 years after women thought the right to birth control was fought and won, we are still having to justify why we'd like to have sex - and why that doesn't make us bad, immoral or disgusting people.
The true concerns of conservative "freedom-seekers" are made especially clear in the amicus briefs in support of Hobby Lobby - which sound more like abstinence-only education curricula than legal arguments.
One brief from the Beverly Lahaye Institute and Janice Crouse (who once gave a sex talk to college students called "False Promises, Searing Pain, Tragic Problems") insists that the court consider the "documented negative effects the widespread availability of contraceptives has on women's ability to enter into and maintain desired marital relationships". The American Freedom Center argued that birth control has "harmed women physically, emotionally, morally, and spiritually". And lawyer David Boyle wrote in his brief that contraceptives are not necessary, "since sexual relations are basically a voluntary activity. ... [S]ex is only a human want (like bowling or stamp collecting), not an actual need".
Bowling or stamp collecting. The jokes write themselves.
Legal decisions about contraception have always been based, at least in part, on concerns about women's potential promiscuity. The supreme court decision in Eisenstadt v Baird that gave unmarried Americans the right to procure birth control - in, yes, 1972 - was sparked by the arrest of William Baird after he handed a condom to an unmarried woman at a lecture he was giving about birth control at Boston University. At the time, his action violated Massachusetts law on "crimes against chastity".
Decades later, we've seen the conservative obsession with women's sexual purity restrict access to Plan B and the HPV vaccine - and now it's interfering with women's access to health care, of which sexual health is certainly a part.
Dr Nancy L Stanwood, the chair of the board at Physicians for Reproductive Health, released a statement on Monday saying that "[c]ontraception is essential to women's health and well-being, a critical component of preventive care, and integral to the health of families."
The court put to rest the slippery slope concern many had, stating that the their decision "concerns only the contraceptive mandate" and not vaccinations or blood transfusions. But Louise Melling, the deputy legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union, noted in a call after the ruling that this exceptionalism only seems to apply when it comes to women and reproductive rights - or, as lawyer and writer Jill Filipovic tweeted, "Whew, really glad #SCOTUS made sure its #HobbyLobby decision wouldn't negatively impact men who need medical care some religions object to!".
And while SCOTUSblog reported that the decision will allow for the government to "provide alternative ways [for women] to obtain or access [contraception] coverage", several women's health leaders I heard from said that is far from certain.
No matter the legal rhetoric, the message about women and sex remains the same. It seems appropriate that that quote from Ellen Willis is from the essay "Abortion: Is a Woman a Person?" Because what's at stake in a decision like this - and in a debate like this - is women's basic humanity, of which sexuality is an integral part. Yes, contraception is about health and women often need birth control for medical reasons - but we also need it for sex, and that's just fine.
The supreme court wrote that this decision doesn't "provide a shield for employers who might cloak illegal discrimination as a religious practice". But what else can we call the targeting of contraception - and the targeting of women's health and lives?
