Hobby Lobby: Believe it or not | The Economist
Pro-lifers are elated
TWO years ago the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. A decision on June 30th was less favourable. The Court allowed an exception to Obamacare's mandate that firms above a certain size offer their staff insurance that includes free contraception. Rarely has a decision provoked such controversy. Hillary Clinton called it "deeply disturbing" , though her husband signed the law that underpins it.
The case, Burwell v Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc, was brought by two Christian families and their businesses. The Greens own Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft shops, and Mardel, a Christian bookstore; the Hahns own Conestoga Wood Specialties, a cabinetmaker. Obamacare requires firms to offer their workers all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The Greens and Hahns believe that four of those contraceptives, including the "morning-after pill", are abortifacients, since they may keep a fertilised egg from implanting in the uterine wall.
In this section
Related topics
The issue was not whether these highly debatable beliefs are valid, but the circumstances under which a religious objection may trump a federal law. The constitution protects the right to the "free exercise" of religion. A 1993 law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, further requires that the government "shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion" unless doing so is the least restrictive way to advance a compelling government interest. By five votes to four, the court ruled that obliging closely held firms with religious owners to pay for their employees' contraceptives violates that principle.
The government had argued that Hobby Lobby could not claim to have religious beliefs because it is a for-profit corporation. "While the Greens are persons who exercise religion, there is a critical separation between the Greens and the corporation they have elected to create," the government's lawyers insisted. A company has rights and obligations that differ from those of its owners. That includes being subject to Obamacare's employer mandate, they argued.
The court's conservative justices disagreed. "Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby, Conestoga and Mardel protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control these companies," wrote Justice Samuel Alito. If Hobby Lobby refused to cover the four contraceptives, it faced fines of up to $475m a year, which Mr Alito said clearly counted as a "substantial burden". And the government had other, less onerous ways to provide contraception, he argued. For example, it could pay for contraception itself or include for-profit companies in an "accommodation" already made for non-profit religious organisations, such as Catholic universities. Under that accommodation, insurers cover the cost of contraception, without raising prices for employers or their workers.
Mr Alito insisted that the ruling was a narrow one, applying only to closely held firms under very specific circumstances. It is unclear how the government will now ensure that women with religious employers obtain free contraception. The "accommodation" may not be viable; its legality is being challenged by separate suits. Some women may have to pay for their own contraceptives. (Since the cost of company-provided insurance comes largely out of wages, many women with employer coverage are already paying some of the cost of their contraceptives.)
The ruling could make it harder to enforce the Obamacare mandate that employers offer health insurance (a mandate that has already been delayed). Many firms are "closely held", including some that employ tens of thousands of workers. These companies may now seek exemptions from other parts of the mandate.
On July 1st the Supreme Court ordered lower courts to revisit objections to a broader set of contraceptives, in addition to the four raised by Hobby Lobby. In future, companies might challenge Obamacare's mandate to cover immunisations, blood transfusions or medicines derived from pigs, though none has yet done so. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the decision was of "startling breadth". Companies, she wrote, "can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."

Danger sign: The Supreme Court has already expanded Hobby Lobby decision - Los Angeles Times
The Supreme Court wasted no time in delivering a message to anyone who thought its Hobby Lobby ruling was limited to religious objections to coverage of purported abortion methods:
You're wrong.
The day after handing down the Hobby Lobby decision on Monday, the court issued orders pertaining to six pending cases in which employers claimed religious objections to all contraceptive services required under the Affordable Care Act. The court either ordered appeals courts to reconsider their rejection of the employers' claims in light of the Hobby Lobby decision, or let stand lower courts' endorsement of those claims.
In at least one of those cases, the sincerity of the employer's religious objections is open to question. That shows why allowing a broad "religious" exemption from a federal law can be atrociously bad policy. More on that in a moment.
Tuesday's orders are just the beginning: The Becket Fund, the religious law firm that represented Hobby Lobby in its legal case, lists 49 pending federal cases in which for-profit companies have brought purportedly religious objections to the ACA. An additional 51 cases involve nonprofit organizations. The floodgates aren't about to open--they're already open.
Obviously, when Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg in her dissent called the Hobby Lobby ruling "a decision of startling breadth," she didn't even scratch the surface.
The companies that brought the six cases dealt with by the court on Tuesday are all owned by Catholics or their families. They employers of a few score workers ranging up to several hundred.
Their objections all apply to the ACA's mandate that their health insurance policies cover contraceptive services to women without co-pays or deductibles. But where the Green family, the owners of the Hobby Lobby crafts store chain, objected only to four birth control devices or methods they considered "abortifacients"--promoting abortions--the others object to all contraceptives, and more.
For example, the Korte family, which owns an Indiana construction company, refuses to pay for or support not only "contraceptives, sterilization, abortion, (or) abortion-inducing drugs," but "related education and counseling." (Emphasis added.) In other words, if a woman asks her doctor for advice on reproductive options, the consultation may not be covered.
The most interesting case, however, was brought by Eden Foods, a Michigan "natural foods" firm. Its Catholic owner, Michael Potter, claimed in his lawsuit that "participating in, paying for, training others to engage in, or otherwise supporting contraception, abortion, and abortifacients" offends his "deeply held religious beliefs."
The appeals court that rejected his motion for an injunction against the mandate was skeptical. Potter's real position, it suggested, resembled more "a laissez-faire, anti-government screed." The evidence came from an interview Potter gave last year to Irin Carmon of Salon, in which he stated:
"I don't care if the federal government is telling me to buy my employees Jack Daniel's or birth control. What gives them the right to tell me that I have to do that? That's my issue, that's what I object to, and that's the beginning and end of the story."
This hint that Potter had merely swaddled an anti-government rant within a "religious" blanket illustrates the main problem with Justice Samuel Alito's majority opinion in Hobby Lobby: it takes claims of religious scruples for granted.
But how are government agencies or the courts to know when claims of religious piety are just pretexts for some other viewpoint, such as libertarianism or misogyny?
There's no evidence in the record of Tuesday's cases that the lower courts conducted any inquiry into the sincerity of the business owners' religious claims or beliefs. Alito's majority opinion Monday certainly didn't offer any guidelines for validating what he established as a qualification for exemption from the ACA mandate.
In a case involving the Gilardi family, owners of an Ohio produce firm, Judge Janice Rogers Brown of the Washington, D.C., circuit appeals court wrote in a 2-1 decision overturning the mandate that "this case is not about the sincerity of the Gilardis' religious beliefs, nor does it concern the theology behind Catholic precepts on contraception. The former is unchallenged, while the latter is unchallengeable."
But why should that be? If the only requisite for an exemption from this important mandate is a religious claim, why should it not be subject to challenge? Otherwise, how do we limit the exemption only to those with genuinely religious scruples?
(It's proper to observe that Brown didn't actually care much about the religious grounds of the Gilardis' case, though she dressed up her ruling as one dealing with the free exercise of religion. She overturned the mandate in part on the manifestly misogynistic and nonreligious grounds--never mind that she's a woman--that the government hadn't shown it has an interest in "the compelled subsidization of a woman's procreative processes." The court in its Tuesday orders let her ruling stand.)
Shouldn't the courts, at the very least, determine if a family-owned company follows its religious precepts consistently? If this were the test, by the way, Hobby Lobby itself might fail: its 401(k) plan for employees has invested via its mutual funds in companies that manufacture and distribute precisely those drugs and devices that it objects to providing via its health insurance plan. The investments were first disclosed by Mother Jones, but are documented in the firm's public filings.
The investment options for the 401(k) are chosen, and the worker contributions matched, by the firm--how come its religious scruples didn't apply there?
Allowing exemptions to a federal law based on "unchallenged" and "unchallengeable" claims of subjective belief is the antithesis of secular law. That may be why religious exemptions have been handed out very carefully, until now.
The minimal rule should be, if you want one, prove you deserve it. In the past, courts have been loath to conduct such inquiries, because they can lead down a bottomless, subjective rabbit hole. But the Supreme Court has now turned claims of subjective belief into an enormous loophole. Somewhere, a court may try to narrow that loophole so not just anyone can fit through it. That's bad for the law, and it may be bad for religion, too.
