Hobby Lobby: Believe it or not | The Economist
Pro-lifers are elated
TWO years ago the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. A decision on June 30th was less favourable. The Court allowed an exception to Obamacare's mandate that firms above a certain size offer their staff insurance that includes free contraception. Rarely has a decision provoked such controversy. Hillary Clinton called it "deeply disturbing" , though her husband signed the law that underpins it.
The case, Burwell v Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc, was brought by two Christian families and their businesses. The Greens own Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft shops, and Mardel, a Christian bookstore; the Hahns own Conestoga Wood Specialties, a cabinetmaker. Obamacare requires firms to offer their workers all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The Greens and Hahns believe that four of those contraceptives, including the "morning-after pill", are abortifacients, since they may keep a fertilised egg from implanting in the uterine wall.
In this section
Related topics
The issue was not whether these highly debatable beliefs are valid, but the circumstances under which a religious objection may trump a federal law. The constitution protects the right to the "free exercise" of religion. A 1993 law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, further requires that the government "shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion" unless doing so is the least restrictive way to advance a compelling government interest. By five votes to four, the court ruled that obliging closely held firms with religious owners to pay for their employees' contraceptives violates that principle.
The government had argued that Hobby Lobby could not claim to have religious beliefs because it is a for-profit corporation. "While the Greens are persons who exercise religion, there is a critical separation between the Greens and the corporation they have elected to create," the government's lawyers insisted. A company has rights and obligations that differ from those of its owners. That includes being subject to Obamacare's employer mandate, they argued.
The court's conservative justices disagreed. "Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby, Conestoga and Mardel protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control these companies," wrote Justice Samuel Alito. If Hobby Lobby refused to cover the four contraceptives, it faced fines of up to $475m a year, which Mr Alito said clearly counted as a "substantial burden". And the government had other, less onerous ways to provide contraception, he argued. For example, it could pay for contraception itself or include for-profit companies in an "accommodation" already made for non-profit religious organisations, such as Catholic universities. Under that accommodation, insurers cover the cost of contraception, without raising prices for employers or their workers.
Mr Alito insisted that the ruling was a narrow one, applying only to closely held firms under very specific circumstances. It is unclear how the government will now ensure that women with religious employers obtain free contraception. The "accommodation" may not be viable; its legality is being challenged by separate suits. Some women may have to pay for their own contraceptives. (Since the cost of company-provided insurance comes largely out of wages, many women with employer coverage are already paying some of the cost of their contraceptives.)
The ruling could make it harder to enforce the Obamacare mandate that employers offer health insurance (a mandate that has already been delayed). Many firms are "closely held", including some that employ tens of thousands of workers. These companies may now seek exemptions from other parts of the mandate.
On July 1st the Supreme Court ordered lower courts to revisit objections to a broader set of contraceptives, in addition to the four raised by Hobby Lobby. In future, companies might challenge Obamacare's mandate to cover immunisations, blood transfusions or medicines derived from pigs, though none has yet done so. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the decision was of "startling breadth". Companies, she wrote, "can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."

Supreme Court: Religious rights trump birth control - SFGate
In a historic victory for businesses and religious conservatives, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled Monday that a federal freedom-of-religion law applies to most for-profit corporations, which can invoke it to deny birth control coverage to their female employees.
The 5-4 ruling allows Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood Specialties, corporations owned by conservative Christians, to opt out of the federal health care law's requirement to include zero-deductible coverage for contraception in workplace insurance plans.
While the decision potentially covers employers of tens of millions of women nationwide, its impact is likely to be limited in California, where a 1999 state law, the Women's Contraceptive Equity Act, requires employers to cover workers' access to most federally approved contraceptives as long as their insurance plans cover prescription drugs.
That means women statewide are entitled to contraceptive coverage even if their employers object on religious grounds, said Beth Parker, chief counsel for Planned Parenthood in California. The state law does not exempt them from co-payments, which Parker said can amount to $600 a year, but a bill pending in Sacramento would eliminate those payments as well.
1993 federal law
Monday's ruling was based on a 1993 federal law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which prohibits federal actions that "substantially burden the exercise of religion" unless those actions are necessary to serve some compelling public interest. The law does not override state laws like California's.
The federal law protects "men and women who wish to run their businesses as for-profit corporations in the manner required by their religious beliefs," Justice Samuel Alito said in the majority opinion. He said there was no compelling need to override their religious objections to contraceptive coverage because the government could easily fund contraceptive care or find other ways to provide it.
But Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, joined in dissent by three other liberal justices, said the ruling "would deny legions of women who do not hold their employers' beliefs access to contraceptive coverage."
The ruling came on the final day of the court's 2013-14 term, four days after the justices dealt another blow to advocates of women's reproductive rights by striking down, on free speech grounds, Massachusetts' 35-foot buffer zone around patients entering and leaving abortion clinics.
Alito said the ruling applies to closely held corporations, which have a limited number of owners, often family members, and are not publicly traded. He said similar challenges by publicly traded corporate giants were "improbable" but did not rule them out.
Most U.S. corporations are closely held, including some large ones. As Ginsburg pointed out, Hobby Lobby, a nationwide arts-and-crafts chain, has 13,000 employees, and the agricultural products company Cargill has 140,000.
Alito: A limited ruling
Alito insisted the court was not opening the door to broader claims of faith-based exemptions from federal laws - by employers who oppose coverage for vaccinations or blood transfusions, for example, or those with faith-based objections to race-discrimination laws.
The government has additional justifications for saving lives, preventing infectious diseases and promoting racial equality that may not apply to providing zero-deductible contraception, Alito said. Ginsburg questioned his assertion of a narrow ruling and said the court had invited challenges to any federal law, other than tax laws, that corporate owners consider "incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."
Nancy Stanwood, chairwoman of Physicians for Reproductive Health Care, said the ruling "placed the personal beliefs of the few ahead of the preventive health needs of the many" and would eliminate many women's access to expensive but effective contraception methods, like intrauterine devices.
But Hobby Lobby's attorney, Lori Windham of the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, said the court had "recognized that Americans do not lose their religious freedom when they run a family business." She said the government can pay for women's contraception.
Apart from its disputed impact, the ruling was a significant step forward for corporate "personhood."
Corporations, which shield their owners and executives from responsibility for corporate debts and other conduct, have nevertheless been recognized for many years as "persons" with certain rights, including the right of free speech - invoked in the 2010 Supreme Court ruling that allowed unlimited corporate spending on political causes.
Distinction erased
Some lower courts and legal commentators drew a distinction between free speech and freedom of religion, which is more personal and reflective and can also affect the rights of others. Monday's ruling erased that line.
"Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby ... protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control those companies," Alito said.
He said the owners of Hobby Lobby, while seeking profits, were also exercising their religious beliefs through such actions as closing their stores on Sundays.
Ginsburg, in dissent, said, "The exercise of religion is characteristic of natural persons, not artificial legal entities."
