Hobby Lobby, or When Corporations Get Things Both Ways
By DOROTHY J. SAMUELS July 2, 2014 3:28 pmJuly 2, 2014 3:38 pm
Photo
Among the galling aspects of Monday's Supreme Court ruling in the Hobby Lobby contraception case is that it made a muddle of the longstanding concept of "corporate separateness."
The notion that a corporation is a distinct entity with its own rights and obligations separate from those of its shareholders is the foundational principle of corporate law.
It means that people can invest in a company without risking personal assets beyond their investment. If a corporation fails to observe proper safety precautions in manufacturing a product, for example, the victim can only sue the corporation -- not the individual shareholders. This benefit is especially important for closely held corporations, like Hobby Lobby, because any liability would otherwise be shared by a small number of family members or other controlling shareholders. In exchange for this protection, individual owners are not supposed to treat a corporation as a mere extension of themselves.
Under the new decision, religious owners of closely-held, for-profit companies get to have it both ways. They get to assert their personal religious identity to exclude legally mandated birth-control benefits from their company's health insurance plan. Yet they will still enjoy the insulation against economic liability that comes from doing business as a corporation.
Burt Neuborne of the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University Law School, a co-author of one of the amicus briefs filed in support of the government's contraception mandate, foresees possible consequences to this "piercing of the corporate veil" that recall an old adage: Be careful what you wish for.
If owners indicate that they are not entirely separate from their corporation -- by denying corporation employees' birth control coverage based on their personal religious beliefs -- the case could be made in future state-court litigation that they have waived their right to be shielded from responsibility for corporate financial liabilities.
Plaintiffs may seek to have owners personally cover a corporate debt when a business goes bust, for example, or to hold a corporation responsible when an owner doesn't have the money to pay their personal bills.
These claims seem unlikely to prevail anytime soon. But after the Hobby Lobby ruling they are bound to factor in new lawsuits and public debates.
