The Hobby Lobby Mess: 3 Quick Facts You Need to Know About - Forbes
The Supreme Court announced on Monday, June 30, 2014, that the "Hobby Lobby" case - as it's widely recognized, although increasingly being referred to as the "Hobby Lobby Mess", as well - would not be forced to pay for insurance that covers contraception. Hobby Lobby, a family owned business, believed that by having to do so, it violates their religious freedom. Despite the fact that most women in America rely on birth control at some point in their lives, Hobby Lobby believes this is not acceptable and therefore, they do not want to have to contribute any dollars towards women's birth control.
With this in mind, let's look at some recent findings that have been unveiled since this announcement was made - many of which you may find either surprising, disgusting or - as I do - very ironic.
1. Hobby Lobby still provides benefits to employees who need erectile dysfunction treatments, Viagra and vasectomies. The male condom is also covered in their plan.
2. Hobby Lobby had five male justices from the Supreme Court - note, zero women - make the decision that Hobby Lobby would "win" their case. While this was out of Hobby Lobby's actual control, it does seem rather coincidental, doesn't it?
3. Hobby Lobby - as reported by various media outlets that include Mother Jones - has about $73 million invested in the company that makes the Plan B morning-after pill... aka, a pill often recognized as a type of abortion or prevention of pregnancy and hence, something that could have been prevented with appropriate birth control.
This "mess" continues to unveil new findings, new judgement and new controversy everyday. At this point, it's a waiting game to see exactly how this will impact not only the sales of Hobby Lobby, but more importantly - the lives of it's employees, as well. And while consumers can choose to skip over Hobby Lobby on their future shopping excursions, the real question remains... Just what does this slippery slope style case mean for the rest of corporate America looking to throw their weight around?
