Practical and legal hurdles remain in contraception fight - Jennifer Haberkorn - POLITICO.com
The Obama administration and Senate Democrats promised to fight the Supreme Court rebuke of Obamacare's contraception coverage requirement on Monday, even as a second round of legal fights over birth control head to the court.
White House press secretary Josh Earnest said the administration will "respect" the ruling while continuing "to look for ways to improve American's health by helping women have more, not less, say over the personal health decisions that affect them and their families." The White House is looking to Congress to take action. Senate Democrats say they want to offer legislation, but it's not yet clear what that could look like.
Continue Reading
The high court ruling does not mean that any closely held company with a sincerely held religious belief can automatically just stop including contraception in their health plans. The company would still have to go to a court and seek the exemption. But Monday's ruling will make that exemption very easy to obtain, said Daniel Blomberg, an attorney at the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty who represented Hobby Lobby.
(Also on POLITICO: SCOTUS decision ignites Obamacare, contraception fight)
"There will be work for the district court to do because [the Religious Freedom Restoration Act] only applies to the people who assert it," Blomberg said.
It's unclear how many companies will pursue that option, although dozens of companies across the country have filed lawsuits over the contraception rule.
The fallout of the Hobby Lobby ruling could be one of the first challenges for new HHS Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell, who started her job less than a month ago.
In a 5-4 decision, the court said that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act forbids the administration from requiring closely held for-profit employers to provide birth control in their employee health insurance plans. But any congressional attempt to exempt the health law from that religious freedom act is sure to be blocked by the Republican controlled House of Representatives.
Unable to make changes to the Affordable Care Act in Congress, the White House has used administrative action instead. Earnest didn't say on Monday whether the administration would pursue a similar remedy on birth control.
The court devoted several pages of its opinion Monday explaining that the government could choose to provide birth control to women directly, without involving employers.
"This would certainly be less restrictive of the [companies'] religious liberty and HHS has not shown that this is not a viable alternative," Justice Samuel Alito wrote for the court. He said the administration has not proven it would be prohibitively expensive, either, certainly not when "compared with the overall cost of the ACA."
On Capitol Hill, Senate Democrats pledged to restore the coverage.
"Since the Supreme Court decided it was not going to protect women's access to health care, I am going to," Sen. Patty Murray told POLITICO. She's working on legislation to "protect health care services regardless of occupation" but said she hasn't settled on a specific approach.
"We are looking to Congress to right this wrong. We cannot trust the courts," said Ilyse Hogue, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America, during a press call shortly after the ruling. Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood Action Fund, said advocates have not yet determined the best way to do that.
The ruling in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby addressed for-profit companies like Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood Specialties, a smaller family owned woodworking company. But the court is still facing a slew of lawsuits from nonprofit corporations, such as Catholic schools, over contraception. The White House already made an accommodation for religious nonprofits so that they don't have to directly provide the birth control, but dozens say it still forces them to violate their religious beliefs.
The University of Notre Dame has indicated that it will ask the court in the fall to take up its challenge. Two other religious nonprofits on Friday filed emergency petitions to the court to block the requirement, which would go into effect on Tuesday when their new insurance plan years start.
The court on Monday pointed to the accommodation as a reason why the coverage mandate wasn't essential. But Alito said that the court wasn't yet ruling on whether the nonprofits' accommodation violates the religious freedom act.
Several opponents of the law say the ruling on Monday was a death knell for the accommodation.
"There were a couple pages of discussion of how direct government payment [of birth control] could count as a least restrictive means," said Kevin Walsh, a University of Richmond law professor who is consulting with some of the religious non-profit cases. "Having that as an alternative is helpful in the non-profit cases," he said, because the government would have to prove that the accommodation is the least restrictive means of getting birth control to women.
Kyle Cheney and Natalie Villacorta contributed to this report.
