Obama roundtable planned with veteran reps in Phoenix
 Dennis Wagner, The Republic | azcentral.com 10:04 p.m. MST March 11, 2015
obama.
Chuck Byers of Vietnam Veterans of America is mulling the many questions he might ask if he could address President Barack Obama during a roundtable event Friday at the Phoenix VA medical center.

"I might ask, "Honestly, President Obama, would you come into the VA's ER if you had a medical emergency?' "

"I think the VA system is still broken," he added. "There's a lot of smoke and mirrors, and it's so big."

A White House spokesman declined to confirm Friday's plans, but at least four veteran service organizations said they expect to deploy Arizona representatives to meet with Obama and VA Secretary Robert McDonald. The American Legion, Disabled American Veterans and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America reported they are hoping to have members at the sit-down along with the Veterans of Foreign Wars.

Gretchen Anderson, a national spokeswoman for IAVA, said her organization will be represented by Cara Hammer Campbell of Phoenix, a U.S. Army veteran who served in Iraq and now works as program manager for the Pat Tillman Foundation.

Campbell said representing vets is "an exciting opportunity I take very seriously." She said she hopes to ask Obama how to restore trust to the VA, and to suggest that it begins with ensuring an atmosphere of respect and accountability. "Screw the bureaucracy of the system and chop out the people who don't belong there," Hammer said, "because employee complacency kills people."

Andres Jaime Jr., state commander of the American Legion, said he was still awaiting an invitation from the White House late Wednesday. "They may not even let me in," he joked, "but then I'll be standing outside."

Jaime said members of his organization continue to complain of frustration and pain they experience at VA facilities due to delays in care. He said he wants to speak with Obama and McDonald about doctor shortages and confusion with the Choice Card, which allows some veterans to get treatment outside the VA.

His question: "What can you do to encourage physicians to come and work for the VA?"

Greg Kozakiewicz, Arizona VFW commander, said his organization is to be represented at the roundtable by Raymond K. Thomas, the state adjutant general who also is national inspector general.

Obama will be making his first stop at the Phoenix hospital since the nationwide scandal over health care for veterans erupted in Arizona 11 months ago. It also will be the president's first participation in roundtables that McDonald has been conducting.

Some politicians and veterans' advocacy groups criticized Obama in January when he visited Phoenix without stopping by the Carl T. Hayden VA Medical Center. Byers, the VVA official, said that incident triggers another potential question: "Mr. President, why are you coming here now?"

"I mean, he's a busy guy, so I'm sure there are reasons. But we're the epicenter," Byers said. "I think there have been some improvements. But there's still a long way to go."

Former Maricopa County Attorney Rick Romley, a veterans' advocate and U.S. Marine who lost both legs above the knees in Vietnam, said he thinks Obama's visit reflects "a recognition in Washington, D.C., that Phoenix is Ground Zero" for the VA crisis.

"No. 1, it's a statement by the president that he cares about veterans' issues," Romley said. "No. 2, he's sending a message to the secretary and VA administrators here that says, 'I'm looking at Phoenix.' "


The Phoenix VA Medical Center issued a notice to employees and patients that Friday's visit by President Barack Obama and VA Secretary Robert McDonald could magnify a severe parking shortage caused by construction of a new garage.

Spokeswoman Jean Schaefer said the health care facility at Indian School Road and Seventh Street will be open, and no patient appointments are to be canceled unless requested by veterans.

But staffers have been advised to work from home when that is an option, with supervisory approval.

The notice says traffic around the campus will be tightly controlled Friday, and some parking restrictions will be in place beginning Thursday evening.

Obama's stopover in Phoenix on Friday is expected to last about four hours.