Rolf Harris trial: The brave victims their evidence which put the entertainer behind bars - Mirror Online
They were labelled liars, fame-hungry, money-grabbing and jealous as they bravely stood before the jury to tell their stories.
However each of their terrifying ordeals at the hands of Rolf Harris painted a disturbing but similar picture of a man who used his fame to abuse girls and young women.
Many were fans who had just been excited to meet their idol.
As each woman told her story it became clear Harris had a pattern - he brazenly took advantage of their vulnerability and used his powerful public image to scare them into silence.
The autograph hunter
The seven-year-old was left distraught after Harris put his hand between her legs after signing an autograph for her at a public appearance in 1968.
The singer had performed his hit Two Little Boys at a community centre in Portsmouth before the youngster approached him.
After signing an autograph for the girl, Harris then assaulted her as she stood frozen on the stage surrounded by other fans.
Describing how she felt in the moment, she said: "Scared and I think I went to some sort of moment where you just are out of your body and you are just thinking 'woah I need to get away'."
Getty
October 1963: Rolf Harris looking down the end of his didgeridoo at London Airport, his wife, Alwyn Harris, is with him
The waitress
PA
Star Games: Harris at 'It's A Knockout' type event in Cambridge
The girl was 13 or 14 when she saw Harris bark like a dog on all fours before the star grabbed her bottom in front of a crowd of people.
The teen was working as a waitress in the 1970s at a It's a Celebrity Knockout-type event in Cambridge when Harris pounced on her.
The victim, now 52, saw Harris barking at a terrier while a crowd laughed at his bizarre antics.
The TV presenter then walked over to the girl and put his arm around her shoulders before moving it down to grope her bottom.
The woman said: "He was just joking around, while he was doing it, with the crowd."
The aspiring actress
PA
Tonya Lee
Tonya Lee, now 43, waived her right to anonymity in court having given multiple interviews to Australian media before the trial began.
The Australian was 15 when Harris sexually assaulted her in 1986 in a London pub during a performance tour with a theatre group.
She developed an eating disorder after Harris fondled her under the table and later pinned her against the wall outside the toilets.
She attempted suicide by taking a lethal combination of alcohol and laxatives as she struggled to come to terms with the trauma.
Police could not bring charges in the case of six more women who claimed to have been groped by Harris as the incidents happened overseas.
However their stories helped to prove a pattern of sexual abuse against girls and young women.
The childhood friend
Harris abused the youngster from the age of 13 - even touching her when his only child Bindi was asleep in the same room.
The woman became an alcoholic as a result of the traumatic abuse, which continued for 16 years.
The children's entertainer first molested the girl - who he had known since she was born - during a holiday in Hawaii in 1978.
Following their return to Britain, Harris continued to abuse the girl at her home and when she visited Bindi in Bray, Berks.
She told jurors Harris "got a thrill" out of touching her while his daughter slept just a few feet away.
He also abused her in his Mercedes while driving on the M4 and in his dressing room ahead of his performance in a pantomime.
The wine server
The New Zealander was just 16 or 17 when Harris put his hand under her skirt as they danced in a packed restaurant.
She was serving wine at the event in around 1970 in New Zealand when she asked for his autograph before posing for a series of photos on the dance floor.
"We were dancing, he was talking to me, we had the photo taken. I was relaxed, comfortable and then in a flash, a moment, I saw the dark side of a man I thought could be trusted."
The shocked teen pushed Harris away and fled the restaurant.
The ill schoolgirl
The poorly 11-year-old was being cared for by a family friend when Harris said he wanted to be the first to give her a "tongue kiss".
The youngster was wearing pyjamas when she met the star at a mutual friend's home in Darwin in Australia's Northern Territories in 1969.
She told the court: "He asked me how old I was. I told him I was 11.
"He said 'good, I want to be the first one to introduce you to a tongue kiss'."
Harris then forced his tongue into her mouth.
The holidaymaker
The 18-year-old met the celebrity cartoonist at a bar while on holiday in Malta in 1970.
He offered to show her examples of his art and took her to a private room, where he pushed her against a wall and forced a "slobbery" kiss on her.
The children's entertainer groped the woman and forced her to touch him.
"I thought I was going to be raped," explained the witness.
The teenage artist and her mum
Harris groped the teenage fan at an art event before claiming "she liked it" as he rubbed his groin against her mum.
The mum and daughter had gone to meet the famous artist at a hardware store where he was promoting British paints in New South Wales, Australia, in 1991.
The daughter, now 39, said Harris ordered "give us a hug" before grabbing her breast and bottom.
When the mum and daughter posed for a photo with the star, he stood behind the mother and rubbed himself against her.
When the mum confronted Harris, he sneered at her "she liked it".
The make-up artist The young woman was groped by Harris 24 times in one day as she worked on his make-up between filming in 1986.
The Australian woman remembers thinking; "Oh my god, I can't believe he works with children", as he slid his hands up her shorts.
She told jurors the star was known as "The Octopus" in showbiz circles because he was "all hands".
Several more witnesses were not heard in court but came forward to help the police investigation. It was ruled their evidence could not be heard during the trial.
PA
Rolf Harris performing on the main stage at Glastonbury music Festival in Pilton, Somerset
The celebrity interviewer
The TV personality was groped during a live interview with Harris in 1996.
During their chat to camera Harris can been seen "grabbing her with both hands and kissing her up and down her arm, doing it in a amusing way saying he 'spent his life play acting'," prosecutor Sasha Wass said.
Harris slid his hand up her leg, underneath her skirt and groped her buttocks.
She then "deliberately drew the interview to a halt", Ms Wass said.
Her story came to light after the first day of Harris' trial
The cuddle
Harris told the 14-year-old girl "Rolfie deserves a cuddle" after touching her bottom.
The girl met Harris in 1977 at a motel which her family ran in Sydney where the Australian artist was visiting with a friend of his - a celebrity called Harry Butler.
When Harris grabbed the girl's bottom she tried to get away, but he wanted her to join him in a sideroom.
Prosecutor Sasha Wass QC explained: "He offered her money, but she refused. She felt he was pressuring her. He followed her to the lift where he held her and touched her breasts."
Getty
Queen Elizabeth II greets artist Rolf Harris and Kylie Minogue backstage during the Diamond Jubilee Concert outside Buckingham Palace
The journalist
The woman met Harris during an art class at the Shankhill Leisure Centre in 1991 when she asked if she could interview him for the BBC.
With the children and camera crew looking on Rolf pressed himself against her and stuck his tongue into her mouth.
Ms Wass said: "She felt disgusted and dirty, and described him as opportunistic and predatory."
The fete
The girl was 13 or 14 in the mid 1990s when she saw Harris signing autographs and posing for photographs at a fete in Bray, Berks.
Ms Wass said: "He said he liked her jumper and wanted to see what was underneath it."
The holiday victim
The woman of 24 met Harris while on holiday with friends.
Ms Wass said: "They were all impressed by his celebrity status. In the villa he was staying in, he came upon her in the garden, put his hand inside her skirt and touched her buttocks.
"On another occasion he came to where she was staying, went into her room whilst she was having a nap, got into bed with her."
Once under the covers he is said to have molested her, and got her to pleasure him.
PA
Rolf Harris arriving with daughter Bindi, wife Alwen and niece Jenny at Southwark Crown Court
The artist
She was at an art competition at Kensington Olympia in 2001 age 20 when Harris groped her as they posed for a picture.
Ms Wass said: "He pinched her bottom while they were being positioned for a photograph. When she looked at him angrily he appeared to shrug."
The barmaid
She was working as a barmaid in a Berkshire pub in 2005 where a party was being held for the broadcaster Michael Parkinson.
Ms Wass said: "The defendant, in front of his wife, grabbed the woman while she was sweeping up and started kissing her neck."
