Time Warner is girding to fight Murdoch's takeover offer - LA Times
Time Warner Chairman and Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes is in an uncomfortable position: The cross hairs of Rupert Murdoch.
For the last six years, Bewkes has presided over Time Warner, a genteel media company known for its sterling assets such as HBO, CNN and Warner Bros. movie and television studio. He has also systematically shed problematic assets, including AOL and magazine unit Time Inc.
The reshaping of Time Warner made the company more lean but inadvertently made it a perfect takeover target. And now Murdoch and his 21st Century Fox team are banging on the door.
"Time Warner will turn hostile and do everything in its power to prevent being taken over," predicted longtime media analyst Hal Vogel. "But if Rupert gets obsessed about having to buy Time Warner, and he does tend to get obsessed about these things, then he will end up overpaying."
Bewkes and other board members turned down Fox's $80-billion cash-and-stock offer. The company said it had no interest in pursuing discussions with Fox, calling its offer too low and questioning whether Fox's management was up to the task of leading such a huge conglomerate.
He said in a video message delivered to employees on the company's website that the board was unified in its belief that Time Warner would be stronger and more profitable on its own. He said the company was executing on its business plan, which was "superior to any proposal that Fox is in a position to offer."
But Time Warner is still girding for battle.
Nervous executives huddled in meetings in New York and Burbank on Thursday. Top management is "very resolved" to fend off Murdoch's advances, according to a Time Warner executive who asked not to be identified discussing strategy.
Analysts are not so certain that's the case. Wall Street clearly expects Fox to sweeten its offer. Shares of Time Warner jumped for the second straight day on Thursday, and are now up 21% at $86.12 since Fox's offer became public.
Murdoch might even be willing to go as high as $100 a share, according to Wells Fargo Securities senior analyst Marci Ryvicker. That would place the deal's value at $91 billion.
The key question, according to veteran media analyst Michael Nathanson, is: "At what price is 21st Century Fox willing to walk away?"
The answer is not clear. Fox executives plan to be disciplined in their pursuit of Time Warner, according to people familiar with the company's strategy.
Fox's stock closed down 23 cents at $32.77 on Thursday. But the stock hasn't collapsed, which the company takes as an encouraging sign that investors are supporting the takeover attempt.
Longtime observers point to Murdoch's pursuit of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co. as an example of the mogul's tenacity. Initially, the owners rebuffed Murdoch until the money -- at $5.6 billion -- became too good to pass up.
"Time Warner will try to resist or just extract the highest price possible," Vogel said. He placed the odds at about 50/50 as to whether Fox would prevail.
Several analysts wondered whether some other deep-pocketed bidder, such as Google Inc., might jump into the fray and make a bid for Time Warner.
Fox appears to be counting on investors to pressure Time Warner to accept a deal.
One reason for Fox's optimism: About 70% of Time Warner's shareholders also own Fox stock. Fox could use its connections with many big institutional investors to lobby for a deal.
Time Warner executives, particularly in the film business, fretted about a possible Fox takeover. Analysts have said that $1 billion to $2 billion could be saved by eliminating overlapping functions throughout the combined entity.
Warner Bros.' film studio is the largest in Hollywood, and known for spending more freely than competitors. 20th Century Fox, in contrast, maintains a reputation for being more tightfisted.
However, it is believed that the two studios would operate independently, at least, in the initial years.
Warner Bros. traditionally finishes No. 1 or No. 2 in the domestic box office market share. Last year, its films accounted for about 17% of the domestic box office, according to an analysis by the research firm MoffettNathanson. Fox films represented 11% of the market.
Buoyed by the strong performance of films including "X-Men: Days of Future Past" and "The Fault in Our Stars," 20th Century Fox is No. 1 in domestic box office market share this year, according to data from entertainment analytics firm Rentrak. Warner Bros. is No. 2.
Both studios have had their share of recent hits and disappointments. Warner Bros. can count "The Lego Movie" and "Godzilla" as successes, but it fared poorly with summer movies including "Blended" and "Jersey Boys."
Bill Gerber, who has a production deal at Warner Bros., said he doesn't believe a Fox takeover is "a foregone conclusion."
"I don't think people feel that consolidation is inevitable, but I think people are very concerned about it and want to know what's going to happen to them in the event of a merger," said Gerber, who produced last year's "Grudge Match" and served as Warner Bros.' worldwide president of theatrical production in the mid-1990s.
Gerber said that "Bewkes is up to the challenge" of fending off Fox.
If the two companies were to combine, Fox would control the output of more than a third of all scripted shows on the major broadcast networks.
20th Century Fox Television studio, which produces such hits as "Modern Family" and "Family Guy" is currently producing 20 prime-time shows for the major networks. Warner Bros., traditionally the most profitable TV studio with such hits as "Big Bang Theory," is producing 28 prime-time shows for the upcoming season.
The combined company would have a fleet of profitable cable channels, including Fox News, FX, TNT, TBS and Fox's sports channels. Murdoch has said it would sell Time Warner's cable news channel CNN to make the deal more palatable to regulators and lawmakers.

James Murdoch back in public at father's side in moves for Time Warner | Media | The Guardian
Rupert Murdoch attends a media conference in Sun Valley with son James, who was reportedly instrumental in 21st Century Fox's proposed deal. Photograph: Rick Wilking/Reuters
Two years ago James Murdoch's career seemed all but over, derailed by his pivotal role in the hacking scandal that had shaken the foundations of his father Rupert's media empire.
This week his comeback looked all but complete when he got a prominent name check as Rupert announced what could be the biggest deal of his career.
When the New York Times revealed 21st Century Fox had made a play for Time Warner on Wednesday, Murdoch Kremlinologists were fascinated to see that James was named as instrumental to the proposed deal.
There he was in the Times video accompanying the story smiling next to his proud father at the annual Sun Valley, Idaho, media powwow. And again in the story highlighted by unnamed insiders as one of the key executives, alongside Fox president and chief operating officer Chase Carey and chief financial officer John Nallen, who "will be disciplined in their bidding" while "focused on winning".
It was a another telling moment in the mission to rebuild the 41-year-old's corporate reputation, left in tatters in the wake of the phone-hacking scandal. In 2012 James had been ignominiously forced to resign as head of News UK - publisher of the Times titles, the Sun and now defunct News of the World - and as chair of BSkyB, admitting he had become a "lightning rod" for criticism.
"Without question there has been a planned rehabilitation from his time swimming with the fishes," said one former colleague. "I do think this deal means he is completely back, but he will be ever marked a little bit by what happened on his watch."
Rupert Murdoch has been laying the groundwork for the transition of power, but the question the Time Warner deal throws up is which of his sons will be his successor. A deal to buy Time Warner's TV and film assets plays to James's strengths: at 28 he ran Fox-owned Asian broadcaster Star, by 31 he was chief executive of BSkyB.
This year he was promoted to co-chief operating officer, serving with the impressively moustachioed Murdoch loyalist Carey, with direct responsibility for Fox's pay-TV strategy globally.
"I think the real question with this big audacious deal is whether he is the right hand man or not," said the former colleague. "He is incredibly smart and accomplished, without question he will continue the Murdoch media dynasty, the question is who is first among equals between the two sons."
The move further complicates the dynastic doings at the House of Murdoch. This year Murdoch enticed eldest son Lachlan back to the family business, almost 10 years after he left to set up an investment company in Australia.
He was named non-executive co-chairman of the entertainment and publishing companies, alongside his father, seemingly positioning him as the heir apparent.
However, a takeover of Time Warner - a move rebuffed by TW but regarded as far from over - would be the biggest media deal since AOL/Time Warner in 2000. It would double the size of 21st Century Fox and play to James's broadcast strengths.
"This is the colossal deal that makes James's career," said Claire Enders, founder of media research firm Enders Analysis. "Time Warner's profitability is modest, management is relaxed and James and Chase Carey are the Fox executives with credibility in the TV business. Doing the deal will undoubtedly catapult [James] into the stratosphere, not just because of its scale, but because it is the deal to seal his reputation for years to come."
Big challenges lie ahead for Fox and News Corp's management whichever son eventually takes charge of the empire, predicts David Folkenflik, NPR media correspondent and author of Murdoch's World.
"The real question is how Wall Street looks at them. They look at Rupert Murdoch and they see a man who has certainly squandered a lot of money on his impulses and yet he has made them a ton of money. James has been capable in broadcast, Lachlan has had his struggles in Australia. Wall Street doesn't look at them with the same kind of admiration. They look at them as the kids," he said.
Both sons have championed new businesses for their father. James is on the board of Vice Media, the fast growing media company that appears to have cracked the millennial ad market, and Lachlan championed REA Group, a real estate listings service in Australia that is now worth close to $6bn. But the pressure for greater accountability to shareholders will be far greater on the sons than the father, said Folkenflik.
On Wall Street analysts largely ignored the hacking scandal once it became clear that Murdoch was unlikely to he hauled away in chains. US investors have never shared Rupert's love of newspapers, which contributed little but red ink to the bottom line of his old empire. Now the empire has been split in two, they concentrate on Fox's fortunes. James undoubtedly shares many of their sympathies; whether he'll get theirs in return remains to be seen.
The newspaper scandal may end up being seen as the hobbling, not the ruination, of James. When the day comes for James or Lachlan to take over, the hacking woes may be a distant memory. All Wall Street will be looking at is the numbers, and that's when his next big test will begin.
