Time Warner is girding to fight Murdoch's takeover offer - LA Times
Time Warner Chairman and Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes is in an uncomfortable position: The cross hairs of Rupert Murdoch.
For the last six years, Bewkes has presided over Time Warner, a genteel media company known for its sterling assets such as HBO, CNN and Warner Bros. movie and television studio. He has also systematically shed problematic assets, including AOL and magazine unit Time Inc.
The reshaping of Time Warner made the company more lean but inadvertently made it a perfect takeover target. And now Murdoch and his 21st Century Fox team are banging on the door.
"Time Warner will turn hostile and do everything in its power to prevent being taken over," predicted longtime media analyst Hal Vogel. "But if Rupert gets obsessed about having to buy Time Warner, and he does tend to get obsessed about these things, then he will end up overpaying."
Bewkes and other board members turned down Fox's $80-billion cash-and-stock offer. The company said it had no interest in pursuing discussions with Fox, calling its offer too low and questioning whether Fox's management was up to the task of leading such a huge conglomerate.
He said in a video message delivered to employees on the company's website that the board was unified in its belief that Time Warner would be stronger and more profitable on its own. He said the company was executing on its business plan, which was "superior to any proposal that Fox is in a position to offer."
But Time Warner is still girding for battle.
Nervous executives huddled in meetings in New York and Burbank on Thursday. Top management is "very resolved" to fend off Murdoch's advances, according to a Time Warner executive who asked not to be identified discussing strategy.
Analysts are not so certain that's the case. Wall Street clearly expects Fox to sweeten its offer. Shares of Time Warner jumped for the second straight day on Thursday, and are now up 21% at $86.12 since Fox's offer became public.
Murdoch might even be willing to go as high as $100 a share, according to Wells Fargo Securities senior analyst Marci Ryvicker. That would place the deal's value at $91 billion.
The key question, according to veteran media analyst Michael Nathanson, is: "At what price is 21st Century Fox willing to walk away?"
The answer is not clear. Fox executives plan to be disciplined in their pursuit of Time Warner, according to people familiar with the company's strategy.
Fox's stock closed down 23 cents at $32.77 on Thursday. But the stock hasn't collapsed, which the company takes as an encouraging sign that investors are supporting the takeover attempt.
Longtime observers point to Murdoch's pursuit of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co. as an example of the mogul's tenacity. Initially, the owners rebuffed Murdoch until the money -- at $5.6 billion -- became too good to pass up.
"Time Warner will try to resist or just extract the highest price possible," Vogel said. He placed the odds at about 50/50 as to whether Fox would prevail.
Several analysts wondered whether some other deep-pocketed bidder, such as Google Inc., might jump into the fray and make a bid for Time Warner.
Fox appears to be counting on investors to pressure Time Warner to accept a deal.
One reason for Fox's optimism: About 70% of Time Warner's shareholders also own Fox stock. Fox could use its connections with many big institutional investors to lobby for a deal.
Time Warner executives, particularly in the film business, fretted about a possible Fox takeover. Analysts have said that $1 billion to $2 billion could be saved by eliminating overlapping functions throughout the combined entity.
Warner Bros.' film studio is the largest in Hollywood, and known for spending more freely than competitors. 20th Century Fox, in contrast, maintains a reputation for being more tightfisted.
However, it is believed that the two studios would operate independently, at least, in the initial years.
Warner Bros. traditionally finishes No. 1 or No. 2 in the domestic box office market share. Last year, its films accounted for about 17% of the domestic box office, according to an analysis by the research firm MoffettNathanson. Fox films represented 11% of the market.
Buoyed by the strong performance of films including "X-Men: Days of Future Past" and "The Fault in Our Stars," 20th Century Fox is No. 1 in domestic box office market share this year, according to data from entertainment analytics firm Rentrak. Warner Bros. is No. 2.
Both studios have had their share of recent hits and disappointments. Warner Bros. can count "The Lego Movie" and "Godzilla" as successes, but it fared poorly with summer movies including "Blended" and "Jersey Boys."
Bill Gerber, who has a production deal at Warner Bros., said he doesn't believe a Fox takeover is "a foregone conclusion."
"I don't think people feel that consolidation is inevitable, but I think people are very concerned about it and want to know what's going to happen to them in the event of a merger," said Gerber, who produced last year's "Grudge Match" and served as Warner Bros.' worldwide president of theatrical production in the mid-1990s.
Gerber said that "Bewkes is up to the challenge" of fending off Fox.
If the two companies were to combine, Fox would control the output of more than a third of all scripted shows on the major broadcast networks.
20th Century Fox Television studio, which produces such hits as "Modern Family" and "Family Guy" is currently producing 20 prime-time shows for the major networks. Warner Bros., traditionally the most profitable TV studio with such hits as "Big Bang Theory," is producing 28 prime-time shows for the upcoming season.
The combined company would have a fleet of profitable cable channels, including Fox News, FX, TNT, TBS and Fox's sports channels. Murdoch has said it would sell Time Warner's cable news channel CNN to make the deal more palatable to regulators and lawmakers.

Fox Challenges ESPN With Pursuit of Time Warner
Continue reading the main story Video
Hurdles for a Time Warner Deal
James Stewart of The New York Times says that Rupert Murdoch's pursuit of of the biggest media deal in more than a decade faces tough regulatory hurdles.
Publish Date July 17, 2014. Image CreditAdrees Latif/Reuters
Rupert Murdoch loves nothing more than taking on an entrenched powerhouse, and with his audacious $80 billion bid to purchase Time Warner, he showed a willingness to go up against one of the industry's most powerful players -- ESPN.
Among the top reasons Mr. Murdoch's 21st Century Fox covets Time Warner, according to analysts and industry executives, is the opportunity to acquire more sports rights and bolster his fledging Fox Sports 1 network, which made its debut last summer.
In a rapidly shifting media landscape, live sports remains one of the industry's few sure bets. Game broadcasts, especially marquee live events like the Super Bowl and the World Cup, are still watched live by mass audiences, attracting advertising dollars. And a network with a robust roster of sports programming commands more lucrative fees from cable and satellite companies.
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage
"It's the most important programming out there and probably gets more important as everything else fragments," Chase Carey, the president and chief operating officer of 21st Century Fox, said in a conference call in February.
Photo
Fox camera crews at an N.F.L. game in 2013. Acquiring Time Warner would give Fox a robust roster of live sports programming to attract higher fees from cable and satellite companies. Credit Rick Osentoski/Associated Press
For decades, Mr. Murdoch and others have sought to challenge the sports hegemony of Walt Disney's ESPN, but they either employed the wrong strategy or came late to the party. Since ESPN's founding 35 years ago, the value of sports rights has soared, and contracts that used to last three or four years now extend up to two decades.
By adding Time Warner's sports and broadcasting assets, which include the National Basketball Association and N.C.A.A. Men's Basketball, Mr. Murdoch would gain a stronger position in the sports world, not only eliminating one bidder from a competitive field but also giving the combined company more leverage with sports leagues.
On Wednesday, Time Warner disclosed that it had rejected a takeover offer from 21st Century Fox, the conglomerate controlled by Mr. Murdoch. Such a deal -- which Mr. Murdoch is likely to continue to pursue -- would create a behemoth in the television and film industries, bringing together the Fox Broadcasting network with Time Warner's premium cable channel HBO as well as the movie studios Warner Bros. and 20th Century Fox.
But the deal is also a rare opportunity for 21st Century Fox to acquire a host of sports rights in one fell swoop. In addition to the N.B.A. and college basketball, Time Warner, home to the TBS and TNT networks, also holds sports rights for Major League Baseball and the P.G.A. Championship, a property of P.G.A. of America. Those rights, along with Time Warner's ownership of digital properties like the Bleacher Report, would complement Fox Sports 1, which carries baseball, Nascar, college basketball and college football. And having a lockdown on those sports rights would be a valuable bargaining chip in fee negotiations with pay-television distributors, such as cable and satellite companies that are in the midst of a wave of consolidation of their own.
Pay-television operators are battling to defend themselves against so-called cord cutting, or the trend that people cancel their pay-television subscriptions in favor of cheaper streaming alternatives, such as Netflix, YouTube, Amazon and Hulu. Live sports are a valuable defense. About two out of every five adults report that they wouldn't cancel their pay-television subscription because they want access to live sports, according to a recent Harris Interactive Poll.
And marketers continue to pour escalating sums to advertise next to sports programming. TV ad spending generated by sports increased nearly 50 percent to $12 billion in the United States in 2013, according to the Interpublic Group's MagnaGlobal ad buying firm. "It is DVR-proof," said Kevin Collins, head of sports ad buying for MagnaGlobal. "Viewers are not skipping over the commercials."
Mr. Murdoch has long realized the value of sports. Over the years, Fox has amassed a sizable American sports footprint, buying rights to football, baseball, Nascar and the 2018 and 2022 men's World Cup. Internationally, his businesses have long profited from a roster of international sports-rich channels in Europe, Asia and Latin America.
To date, Fox Sports 1 has not given ESPN reason for great concern. Over the last 11 months, Fox Sports 1 has averaged 88,000 male viewers 18 to 49 years old in prime time, and 122,000 people of both sexes 18 to 49 years old in prime time, compared with ESPN's 762,000 and 1,070,000, respectively, according to Brad Adgate, director of research for Horizon Media.
Those ratings translate into affiliate revenue, or the fees cable and satellite companies pay to the entertainment companies to distribute the networks. The average affiliate revenue per monthly subscriber is $6.04 for ESPN, nearly 10 times the fees of Fox Sports 1, according to SNL Kagan. (Time Warner's TNT generates $1.48 per monthly subscriber, and TBS makes $0.72.)
The expense of taking on the Time Warner rights fees for M.L.B., March Madness and the N.B.A. would delay profitability for Fox Sports 1, which could be somewhat offset by higher affiliate fees, said David Bank, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets.
But Mr. Murdoch has a history of playing the long game when he takes on the establishment. In 1986, he started the Fox Broadcasting Company, which soon became a formidable competitor to the big three broadcasters. A decade later, he started Fox News Channel, rivaling CNN and ultimately attracting more regular viewers than other cable news networks.
Executives at 21st Century Fox have said they expect big losses for Fox Sports 1 for some time.
"Chasing ESPN is a nice aspirational goal, but it's going to take a generation to get there," said Michael Nathanson, an analyst with MoffettNathanson.
A version of this article appears in print on July 18, 2014, on page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Murdoch Challenges ESPN With Bid to Purchase Time Warner. Order Reprints|Today's Paper|Subscribe
