Time Warner is girding to fight Murdoch's takeover offer - LA Times
Time Warner Chairman and Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes is in an uncomfortable position: The cross hairs of Rupert Murdoch.
For the last six years, Bewkes has presided over Time Warner, a genteel media company known for its sterling assets such as HBO, CNN and Warner Bros. movie and television studio. He has also systematically shed problematic assets, including AOL and magazine unit Time Inc.
The reshaping of Time Warner made the company more lean but inadvertently made it a perfect takeover target. And now Murdoch and his 21st Century Fox team are banging on the door.
"Time Warner will turn hostile and do everything in its power to prevent being taken over," predicted longtime media analyst Hal Vogel. "But if Rupert gets obsessed about having to buy Time Warner, and he does tend to get obsessed about these things, then he will end up overpaying."
Bewkes and other board members turned down Fox's $80-billion cash-and-stock offer. The company said it had no interest in pursuing discussions with Fox, calling its offer too low and questioning whether Fox's management was up to the task of leading such a huge conglomerate.
He said in a video message delivered to employees on the company's website that the board was unified in its belief that Time Warner would be stronger and more profitable on its own. He said the company was executing on its business plan, which was "superior to any proposal that Fox is in a position to offer."
But Time Warner is still girding for battle.
Nervous executives huddled in meetings in New York and Burbank on Thursday. Top management is "very resolved" to fend off Murdoch's advances, according to a Time Warner executive who asked not to be identified discussing strategy.
Analysts are not so certain that's the case. Wall Street clearly expects Fox to sweeten its offer. Shares of Time Warner jumped for the second straight day on Thursday, and are now up 21% at $86.12 since Fox's offer became public.
Murdoch might even be willing to go as high as $100 a share, according to Wells Fargo Securities senior analyst Marci Ryvicker. That would place the deal's value at $91 billion.
The key question, according to veteran media analyst Michael Nathanson, is: "At what price is 21st Century Fox willing to walk away?"
The answer is not clear. Fox executives plan to be disciplined in their pursuit of Time Warner, according to people familiar with the company's strategy.
Fox's stock closed down 23 cents at $32.77 on Thursday. But the stock hasn't collapsed, which the company takes as an encouraging sign that investors are supporting the takeover attempt.
Longtime observers point to Murdoch's pursuit of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co. as an example of the mogul's tenacity. Initially, the owners rebuffed Murdoch until the money -- at $5.6 billion -- became too good to pass up.
"Time Warner will try to resist or just extract the highest price possible," Vogel said. He placed the odds at about 50/50 as to whether Fox would prevail.
Several analysts wondered whether some other deep-pocketed bidder, such as Google Inc., might jump into the fray and make a bid for Time Warner.
Fox appears to be counting on investors to pressure Time Warner to accept a deal.
One reason for Fox's optimism: About 70% of Time Warner's shareholders also own Fox stock. Fox could use its connections with many big institutional investors to lobby for a deal.
Time Warner executives, particularly in the film business, fretted about a possible Fox takeover. Analysts have said that $1 billion to $2 billion could be saved by eliminating overlapping functions throughout the combined entity.
Warner Bros.' film studio is the largest in Hollywood, and known for spending more freely than competitors. 20th Century Fox, in contrast, maintains a reputation for being more tightfisted.
However, it is believed that the two studios would operate independently, at least, in the initial years.
Warner Bros. traditionally finishes No. 1 or No. 2 in the domestic box office market share. Last year, its films accounted for about 17% of the domestic box office, according to an analysis by the research firm MoffettNathanson. Fox films represented 11% of the market.
Buoyed by the strong performance of films including "X-Men: Days of Future Past" and "The Fault in Our Stars," 20th Century Fox is No. 1 in domestic box office market share this year, according to data from entertainment analytics firm Rentrak. Warner Bros. is No. 2.
Both studios have had their share of recent hits and disappointments. Warner Bros. can count "The Lego Movie" and "Godzilla" as successes, but it fared poorly with summer movies including "Blended" and "Jersey Boys."
Bill Gerber, who has a production deal at Warner Bros., said he doesn't believe a Fox takeover is "a foregone conclusion."
"I don't think people feel that consolidation is inevitable, but I think people are very concerned about it and want to know what's going to happen to them in the event of a merger," said Gerber, who produced last year's "Grudge Match" and served as Warner Bros.' worldwide president of theatrical production in the mid-1990s.
Gerber said that "Bewkes is up to the challenge" of fending off Fox.
If the two companies were to combine, Fox would control the output of more than a third of all scripted shows on the major broadcast networks.
20th Century Fox Television studio, which produces such hits as "Modern Family" and "Family Guy" is currently producing 20 prime-time shows for the major networks. Warner Bros., traditionally the most profitable TV studio with such hits as "Big Bang Theory," is producing 28 prime-time shows for the upcoming season.
The combined company would have a fleet of profitable cable channels, including Fox News, FX, TNT, TBS and Fox's sports channels. Murdoch has said it would sell Time Warner's cable news channel CNN to make the deal more palatable to regulators and lawmakers.

Murdoch offer could unleash wave of media mergers
From left, Director Lisa Cholodenko, Executive producer/actress Frances McDormand, actor Richard Jenkins and Writer/Executive producer Jane Anderson speak onstage during the "Olive Kitteridge" HBO 2014 Summer TCA on Thursday, July 10, 2014, in Beverly Hills, Calif. (Photo by Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP) ORG XMIT: CAPS127(Photo: Richard Shotwell Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP)
Rupert Murdoch's age, recent acrimonious divorce and hacking scandal apparently have done little to chasten his business ego.
The 83-year old rarely likes to be outdone, and his $80 billion bid for Time Warner could trigger a new round of media mergers.
With competitive threats and bewildering changes in technology upending their business models, media companies are on the prowl for partners to control costs and add more content to their libraries.
Murdoch's bid, submitted last month by his film and TV company, 21st Century Fox, has fanned the anticipation for an industry consolidation that had already been escalating at a feverish pace. His move, rejected by Time Warner, surprised industry watchers and analysts, who had been on alert for new mergers but nothing as gigantic as the Murdoch deal.
"I think it will have a ripple effect," says Tony Wible, an analyst at investment firm Janney Montgomery Scott. "A lot of that has to do with programming costs. They need to merge to keep those costs in check."
The eagerness shown by Murdoch, respected for being a step ahead in the turbulent industry, has sent a clear message to his competitors, says David Tawil, president of hedge fund Maglan Capital, which has invested in media companies. "This clearly puts a stake in the ground," he says. "Murdoch is on the prowl. If he doesn't do this deal, he'll do another deal. He is bulking up. Then smaller players are going to have to bulk up."
A few media companies large enough to compete with Murdoch - Disney, CBS and Viacom - may start a bidding war for Time Warner, analysts speculate. CBS and Viacom, whose boards are chaired by media mogul Sumner Redstone, may decide to merge. Google, which owns YouTube and is installing its own cable Internet pipes at a few markets, could be on the hunt for valuable video programming.
Disney could be eyeing Discovery Communications following its expansion in Europe and Latin America, Wible says. Discovery owns a majority stake in Eurosport, a sports network in Europe, and it would expand Disney's sports portfolio abroad beyond ESPN. "Disney is underexposed in Europe," he says.
Smaller cable network operators - Scripps Networks Interactive, with HGTV, Food Network and Travel Channel; Starz; and AMC Networks, which airs "The Walking Dead" - also could be looking to find a new home, Wible says.
Discovery, which owns Discovery Channel, Animal Planet and TLC, has approached Scripps for an acquisition, but the talks have been suspended for now.
Shares of the media companies still sitting on the sidelines rose Wednesday and Thursday in anticipation of future deals.
"We do not think Disney needs to make any significant deal given the company's clear strategy," wrote Michael Nathanson, an analyst at MoffettNathanson, on its blog. "The harder question is what does buying a smaller pure play like AMC Networks or Scripps Networks really get you?"
China's growing appetite for overseas assets could influence the rate of consolidation. Earlier this week, Chinese online giant Alibaba Group and film studio Lions Gate Entertainment struck a partnership to launch a streaming service in China. "Our libraries of historical titles are enormously valuable over there," Tawil says. "Anything with robots or monsters, they go crazy and we've got a ton of that over there."
Media companies looking for partners have a variety of motives. Chief among them:
*Content is king - again: The media industry's focus on the value of content is resurfacing quickly. Media companies and pay-TV providers have focused on developing better, cheaper and faster distribution, resulting in a wide array of ways to get TV and movies.
Netflix has led the way in streaming, with many followers. Cable companies offer on-demand viewing through set-top boxes. Google's YouTube offers fresh - and professional -- content. Paying per episode is common for iTunes users. It's gotten easier for content companies to distribute.
"Technology has advanced far enough that barriers to entry for distribution are not all that high," Tawil says. "The real barrier now is that you've got to have content."
Netflix understands this and chose to emulate HBO by producing original content. Murdoch's appetite for HBO and Time Warner's rich bucket of sports programming - it has extensive contracts with the NBA, NCAA and MLB - is at the heart of his unsolicited bid.
"There is only one NFL. Regardless how big Fox and Time Warner ever got, you're going to see rates going up by double," Wible says, adding the primary goal in sports programming isn't to lower acquisition costs but to aggregate as much live content as possible.
Acquisitions also enable media giants to get their hands quickly on popular sci-fi or superhero movie franchises that are reliable revenue generators at the box office, Tawil says.
*Response to other side: Pay-TV providers are getting larger through acquisitions, and it was inevitable that the companies that provide content to them - and get paid for it - will want to get bigger, too. Comcast has a $45 billion deal to merge with Time Warner Cable. AT&T has submitted a $48.5 billion bid to buy DirecTV. Both await federal approval.
The emergence of Netflix, Amazon and other on-demand channels that allow customers to pay for recently aired TV episodes threatens the profitable pay-TV ecosystem. Having a portfolio of widely varying content would empower cable networks when they sit down to negotiate with online distributors.
*Affiliate revenue: TV advertising revenue is still rising, but the rate of increase has slowed as advertisers divert some of their spending to digital platforms, like online video. That makes media companies more dependent on affiliate revenue, the money pay-TV providers pay cable networks. Presumably, larger media companies with better content can dictate more favorable financial terms, Wible says.
