Time Warner is girding to fight Murdoch's takeover offer - LA Times
Time Warner Chairman and Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes is in an uncomfortable position: The cross hairs of Rupert Murdoch.
For the last six years, Bewkes has presided over Time Warner, a genteel media company known for its sterling assets such as HBO, CNN and Warner Bros. movie and television studio. He has also systematically shed problematic assets, including AOL and magazine unit Time Inc.
The reshaping of Time Warner made the company more lean but inadvertently made it a perfect takeover target. And now Murdoch and his 21st Century Fox team are banging on the door.
"Time Warner will turn hostile and do everything in its power to prevent being taken over," predicted longtime media analyst Hal Vogel. "But if Rupert gets obsessed about having to buy Time Warner, and he does tend to get obsessed about these things, then he will end up overpaying."
Bewkes and other board members turned down Fox's $80-billion cash-and-stock offer. The company said it had no interest in pursuing discussions with Fox, calling its offer too low and questioning whether Fox's management was up to the task of leading such a huge conglomerate.
He said in a video message delivered to employees on the company's website that the board was unified in its belief that Time Warner would be stronger and more profitable on its own. He said the company was executing on its business plan, which was "superior to any proposal that Fox is in a position to offer."
But Time Warner is still girding for battle.
Nervous executives huddled in meetings in New York and Burbank on Thursday. Top management is "very resolved" to fend off Murdoch's advances, according to a Time Warner executive who asked not to be identified discussing strategy.
Analysts are not so certain that's the case. Wall Street clearly expects Fox to sweeten its offer. Shares of Time Warner jumped for the second straight day on Thursday, and are now up 21% at $86.12 since Fox's offer became public.
Murdoch might even be willing to go as high as $100 a share, according to Wells Fargo Securities senior analyst Marci Ryvicker. That would place the deal's value at $91 billion.
The key question, according to veteran media analyst Michael Nathanson, is: "At what price is 21st Century Fox willing to walk away?"
The answer is not clear. Fox executives plan to be disciplined in their pursuit of Time Warner, according to people familiar with the company's strategy.
Fox's stock closed down 23 cents at $32.77 on Thursday. But the stock hasn't collapsed, which the company takes as an encouraging sign that investors are supporting the takeover attempt.
Longtime observers point to Murdoch's pursuit of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co. as an example of the mogul's tenacity. Initially, the owners rebuffed Murdoch until the money -- at $5.6 billion -- became too good to pass up.
"Time Warner will try to resist or just extract the highest price possible," Vogel said. He placed the odds at about 50/50 as to whether Fox would prevail.
Several analysts wondered whether some other deep-pocketed bidder, such as Google Inc., might jump into the fray and make a bid for Time Warner.
Fox appears to be counting on investors to pressure Time Warner to accept a deal.
One reason for Fox's optimism: About 70% of Time Warner's shareholders also own Fox stock. Fox could use its connections with many big institutional investors to lobby for a deal.
Time Warner executives, particularly in the film business, fretted about a possible Fox takeover. Analysts have said that $1 billion to $2 billion could be saved by eliminating overlapping functions throughout the combined entity.
Warner Bros.' film studio is the largest in Hollywood, and known for spending more freely than competitors. 20th Century Fox, in contrast, maintains a reputation for being more tightfisted.
However, it is believed that the two studios would operate independently, at least, in the initial years.
Warner Bros. traditionally finishes No. 1 or No. 2 in the domestic box office market share. Last year, its films accounted for about 17% of the domestic box office, according to an analysis by the research firm MoffettNathanson. Fox films represented 11% of the market.
Buoyed by the strong performance of films including "X-Men: Days of Future Past" and "The Fault in Our Stars," 20th Century Fox is No. 1 in domestic box office market share this year, according to data from entertainment analytics firm Rentrak. Warner Bros. is No. 2.
Both studios have had their share of recent hits and disappointments. Warner Bros. can count "The Lego Movie" and "Godzilla" as successes, but it fared poorly with summer movies including "Blended" and "Jersey Boys."
Bill Gerber, who has a production deal at Warner Bros., said he doesn't believe a Fox takeover is "a foregone conclusion."
"I don't think people feel that consolidation is inevitable, but I think people are very concerned about it and want to know what's going to happen to them in the event of a merger," said Gerber, who produced last year's "Grudge Match" and served as Warner Bros.' worldwide president of theatrical production in the mid-1990s.
Gerber said that "Bewkes is up to the challenge" of fending off Fox.
If the two companies were to combine, Fox would control the output of more than a third of all scripted shows on the major broadcast networks.
20th Century Fox Television studio, which produces such hits as "Modern Family" and "Family Guy" is currently producing 20 prime-time shows for the major networks. Warner Bros., traditionally the most profitable TV studio with such hits as "Big Bang Theory," is producing 28 prime-time shows for the upcoming season.
The combined company would have a fleet of profitable cable channels, including Fox News, FX, TNT, TBS and Fox's sports channels. Murdoch has said it would sell Time Warner's cable news channel CNN to make the deal more palatable to regulators and lawmakers.

Is Rupert Murdoch calling the top yet again? - The Economic Times
21st Century Fox's bombshell bid of $75 billion for Time Warner started as a chat over lunch between two longtime friends: Fox president Chase Carey and Jeff Bewkes, Time Warner's chairman and chief executive, writes Jeffrey McCracken 	 Carey, Rupert Murdoch's No. 2 at Fox, approached Bewkes about a merger of the two media companies on June 9 in New York, people familiar with the matter said.
Bewkes, 62, didn't say if he supported a deal and raised several concerns ranging from Fox's dual-class voting structure to what would happen with CNN, said the people, who asked not to be named because the matter is private.
Time Warner's CEO ended by telling Carey, 60, he needed to inform his board and would get back with an answer.
He never did. Carey called Bewkes at least twice seeking a reply. Bewkes said he needed more time. Without a response, New York-based Fox stepped up the pressure, with a June 24 letter to Time Warner from Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Murdoch that laid out the proposal in detail and addressed the issues raised by Bewkes, according to the people.
Fox finally got its answer on July 8: a two-sentence reply came back from Bewkes to Murdoch saying Time Warner, the owner of HBO, CNN and the Warner Bros. film studio, had no interest in the proposal.
"The board has determined that it is not in the best interests of Time Warner Inc. and its stockholders to pursue your proposal," the text read.
"The board is confident that continuing to execute on our current strategic plan is the best path forward for the company and our stockholders."
CHANGING LANDSCAPE 	 Murdoch's bold grab for a competitor reflects the growing recognition among diversified media companies -- producers of films and TV shows and owners of cable channels like Fox News, TNT and HBO -- that they need to bulk up as their main distributors, the largest US pay-TV providers, also combine.
Fox mounted its bid as AT&T is acquiring DirecTV, the largest satellite-TV provider, and Comcast Corp. seeks to complete a deal for Time Warner Cable, joining the No. 1 and No. 2 US cable TV services.
CASH, STOCK 	 In its offer, Fox proposed swapping 1.531 of its Class A shares and $32.42 in cash for each share of Time Warner, according to a statement from the target company. Fox is willing to pay more than $75 billion for Time Warner, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
Over that June 9 lunch, Bewkes expressed several concerns to Carey, who became Murdoch's deputy in the 1980s, raising the issue of Fox's dual-class share arrangement, said the people.
That structure gives Murdoch more power and no voting rights for Class A stockholders. In his letter, Murdoch wrote that many Time Warner shareholders are already investors in Fox Class A shares and therefore probably wouldn't be concerned about the reduced voting rights that would result from the cash and stock bid, the people said.
Fox estimated the combined company could achieve more than $1 billion in cost savings, by eliminating overlapping functions such as human resources, sales and information technology operations, said one person. The company said the figure could go higher once it's able to conduct due diligence on Time Warner, according to the person.
COMPANY LEADERSHIP 	 Bewkes, who started with the company's HBO unit in 1979 and became Time Warner's CEO in 2008, also questioned who would run the company after 2015, according to one person. Carey has the option to step down at that time under his current two-year contract. Bewkes asked who would deliver the $1 billion or more in cost reductions if Carey left.
Murdoch told Bewkes Carey's contract would be extended to at least the end of 2016. He also asked Bewkes to stay on with the combined company, though it was clear Bewkes wouldn't run it.
Management would be decided by choosing the best from each side, Murdoch said in the letter, according to these people.
Bewkes also raised a concern over joint ownership of Time Warner's 24-hour news channel CNN and Fox News, the mostwatched cable news network, one of the people said.
In his letter, Murdoch addressed that, too, saying CNN could be sold up front to ensure the deal could be completed. The network could fetch between $6 billion and $8 billion, one person said.
Men Who Matter Who would manage the merged cos? That's a question likely to dominate the conversation as Rupert Murdoch, 83, forges ahead with his plans to acquire Time Warner. At stake is the future of 3 key executives.
Chase Carey: Murdoch's longtime deputy who helped shape the deal
James Murdoch:	 who escaped the UK hacking scandal and
Lachlan Murdoch:	 who, after a long estrangement, rejoined the fold this year
