James Murdoch back in public at father's side in moves for Time Warner | Media | The Guardian
Rupert Murdoch attends a media conference in Sun Valley with son James, who was reportedly instrumental in 21st Century Fox's proposed deal. Photograph: Rick Wilking/Reuters
Two years ago James Murdoch's career seemed all but over, derailed by his pivotal role in the hacking scandal that had shaken the foundations of his father Rupert's media empire.
This week his comeback looked all but complete when he got a prominent name check as Rupert announced what could be the biggest deal of his career.
When the New York Times revealed 21st Century Fox had made a play for Time Warner on Wednesday, Murdoch Kremlinologists were fascinated to see that James was named as instrumental to the proposed deal.
There he was in the Times video accompanying the story smiling next to his proud father at the annual Sun Valley, Idaho, media powwow. And again in the story highlighted by unnamed insiders as one of the key executives, alongside Fox president and chief operating officer Chase Carey and chief financial officer John Nallen, who "will be disciplined in their bidding" while "focused on winning".
It was a another telling moment in the mission to rebuild the 41-year-old's corporate reputation, left in tatters in the wake of the phone-hacking scandal. In 2012 James had been ignominiously forced to resign as head of News UK - publisher of the Times titles, the Sun and now defunct News of the World - and as chair of BSkyB, admitting he had become a "lightning rod" for criticism.
"Without question there has been a planned rehabilitation from his time swimming with the fishes," said one former colleague. "I do think this deal means he is completely back, but he will be ever marked a little bit by what happened on his watch."
Rupert Murdoch has been laying the groundwork for the transition of power, but the question the Time Warner deal throws up is which of his sons will be his successor. A deal to buy Time Warner's TV and film assets plays to James's strengths: at 28 he ran Fox-owned Asian broadcaster Star, by 31 he was chief executive of BSkyB.
This year he was promoted to co-chief operating officer, serving with the impressively moustachioed Murdoch loyalist Carey, with direct responsibility for Fox's pay-TV strategy globally.
"I think the real question with this big audacious deal is whether he is the right hand man or not," said the former colleague. "He is incredibly smart and accomplished, without question he will continue the Murdoch media dynasty, the question is who is first among equals between the two sons."
The move further complicates the dynastic doings at the House of Murdoch. This year Murdoch enticed eldest son Lachlan back to the family business, almost 10 years after he left to set up an investment company in Australia.
He was named non-executive co-chairman of the entertainment and publishing companies, alongside his father, seemingly positioning him as the heir apparent.
However, a takeover of Time Warner - a move rebuffed by TW but regarded as far from over - would be the biggest media deal since AOL/Time Warner in 2000. It would double the size of 21st Century Fox and play to James's broadcast strengths.
"This is the colossal deal that makes James's career," said Claire Enders, founder of media research firm Enders Analysis. "Time Warner's profitability is modest, management is relaxed and James and Chase Carey are the Fox executives with credibility in the TV business. Doing the deal will undoubtedly catapult [James] into the stratosphere, not just because of its scale, but because it is the deal to seal his reputation for years to come."
Big challenges lie ahead for Fox and News Corp's management whichever son eventually takes charge of the empire, predicts David Folkenflik, NPR media correspondent and author of Murdoch's World.
"The real question is how Wall Street looks at them. They look at Rupert Murdoch and they see a man who has certainly squandered a lot of money on his impulses and yet he has made them a ton of money. James has been capable in broadcast, Lachlan has had his struggles in Australia. Wall Street doesn't look at them with the same kind of admiration. They look at them as the kids," he said.
Both sons have championed new businesses for their father. James is on the board of Vice Media, the fast growing media company that appears to have cracked the millennial ad market, and Lachlan championed REA Group, a real estate listings service in Australia that is now worth close to $6bn. But the pressure for greater accountability to shareholders will be far greater on the sons than the father, said Folkenflik.
On Wall Street analysts largely ignored the hacking scandal once it became clear that Murdoch was unlikely to he hauled away in chains. US investors have never shared Rupert's love of newspapers, which contributed little but red ink to the bottom line of his old empire. Now the empire has been split in two, they concentrate on Fox's fortunes. James undoubtedly shares many of their sympathies; whether he'll get theirs in return remains to be seen.
The newspaper scandal may end up being seen as the hobbling, not the ruination, of James. When the day comes for James or Lachlan to take over, the hacking woes may be a distant memory. All Wall Street will be looking at is the numbers, and that's when his next big test will begin.
