What Rupert Murdoch wants from Time Warner
Graphic: Dorothy Woodgate
Rupert Murdoch has always been considered the Superman of the media world. If his latest tilt at Time Warner is successful, he will own the Man of Steel too.
DC Comics is just one of a stable of established brands under the Time Warner umbrella, which Murdoch is eyeing off as part of an $US80 billion takeover offer by 21st Century Fox.
So what does Murdoch want from Time Warner? It's well known he has always loved live sport. He has built his empire on buying up the rights to televised sport around the world, including the English Premier League, NFL and baseball in the US and the AFL and NRL in Australia.
Advertisement
In the crowded US sports market, Time Warner subsiduary Turner Broadcasting System offers Murdoch a real chance to give Fox Sports a leg up on its rival ESPN.
Turner holds the rights to a string of valuable sports, including parts of the NBA, baseball and college football. It has an interest in the online presence of major sports, including NBA.com and NFL.com. Time Warner also part owns MLB Network.
Aside from sport, Turner has a collection of popular television and movie cable channels, including Fox News rival and network flagship 24-hour news channel CNN.
Another big focus of Murdoch's play is the HBO network, a leading player in the burgeoning online content streaming space and rival to fast-growing Netflix.
HBO has built itself into a worldwide brand on the back of hit series such as Game of Thrones, The Sopranos and Sex and the City.
Bloomberg has reported a Fox source saying the company values HBO at $20 billion.
It's believed Fox sees HBO as having the most potential for the company to get a foothold in the digital and mobile space that is eating up traditional network advertising profits.
It would also gain the company some critical credibility. HBO last week scored 99 Emmy nominations, 19 of which came from Game of Thrones alone. It has held the title for the most Emmy nominations for the past 14 years.
There's also the chance to bolster his presence in Hollywood. In the Time Warner fold is the Warner Bros Pictures Group, which has New Line Cinema and Warner Bros studios that have distributed recent box office hits Gravity and The Lego Movie.
But perhaps Murdoch is really a comic book fan at heart and is keen to get a hold of DC Comics. The publisher has spun off the Batman and Superman series into a plethora of successful film franchises.
And with his first advance for Time Warner blocked, the billionaire can now retire to his Fortress of Solitude to plan his next move.
