Did Japan 'Need' Comfort Women?


In recent years, Toru Hashimoto, a 43-year-old former television commentator who is mayor of Osaka, Japan's third largest city, has been making political waves, challenging the status quo with a brash, very un-Japanese approach. He's known for provocative right-wing statements, quick, the-buck-stops-with-me decisions, and a willingness to battle labor unions and the establishment in a culture known for consensus-building. Last September, he formed a new political party, the Japan Restoration Association, and named about 350 candidates, most political neophytes, to run in the next parliamentary elections.
 
Whatever one thinks of his style, however, he crossed a line on Monday with his reprehensible comments on Japan's wartime behavior. This politician, who some envision as a future prime minister, effectively endorsed wartime rape and sexual enslavement.
 
During Japan's occupation in World War II, as many as 200,000 women were rounded up across Asia to work as sex slaves - the Japanese euphemism is "comfort women" - for the Japanese Army. Many of the women came from China and South Korea but others were from the Philippines, Indonesia and Taiwan.
 
Survivors still bear the scars of this abuse and Japan formally apologized in 1993.
 
One might expect that given his young age, his education (he is a lawyer) and the fact that he is living in a highly developed country where women are also becoming more educated and independent, Mr. Hashimoto would revile - and vow never to repeat - the sins of the past.
 
Instead, he told reporters that the sex slaves served a useful purpose. "When soldiers are risking their lives by running through storms of bullets, and you want to give these emotionally charged soldiers a rest somewhere, it's clear that you need a comfort women system," he said.
 
He insisted that brothels "were necessary at the time to maintain discipline in the army;" and he claimed there was no proof that the Japanese authorities had forced women into servitude. He attributed the women's experiences, vaguely, to "the tragedy of war." At least he bothered to say that surviving comfort women deserved kindness from Japan.
 
There are any number of countries where men continue to exploit conflict to rape women, including Syria and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Would Mr. Hashimoto defend such atrocities as a necessary respite for overworked soldiers?
 
Mr. Hashimoto's comments may be among the most extreme but he is not the only Japanese politician revisiting the country's wartime history and stoking dangerous new tensions with the countries Japan once occupied.
 
Japanese ultranationalists have condemned the 1993 apology to comfort women, as well as a 1995 apology to nations that suffered from Japanese aggression during the war. The new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, initially signaled that he might revise the apologies, but last week his government promised to uphold them.
 
On Tuesday, the Japanese government distanced itself from Mr. Hashimoto's comments but Mr. Abe and other top officials need to go further and condemn them outright. It's hard to believe that anyone who espouses such outrageous views as Mr. Hashimoto has much of a political future in Japan or anywhere else.



Japan distances self from comfort women remark


TOKYO--The Japanese government on Tuesday distanced itself from comments by a prominent politician that the so-called comfort women of World War Two served a "necessary" role by keeping troops in check.
 


Outspoken Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto said soldiers living with the daily threat of death needed some way to let off steam which was provided by the comfort women system.

 Up to 200,000 women from Korea, China, the Philippines and elsewhere were forcibly drafted into brothels catering to the Japanese military in territories occupied by Japan during WWII, according to many mainstream historians.

 "When soldiers risk their lives under a hail of bullets, and you want to give them a rest somewhere, it is clear that you need a comfort women system," Hashimoto said.

 South Korea voiced "deep disappointment" over the comments, which risk inflaming Japan's relationship with neighbors that were victims of brutal expansionism and who claim Tokyo has never faced up to its warmongering past.

 "There is worldwide recognition ... that the issue of comfort women amounts to a wartime rape committed by Japan during its past imperial period in a serious breach of human rights," a Seoul foreign ministry spokesman told AFP.

 "Our government again urges Japan's prominent officials to show regret for atrocities committed during Japan's imperial period and to correct their anachronistic way of thinking and comments."

 Hashimoto, who is co-leader of the national Japan Restoration Party, acknowledged that some women providing sexual services to Japan's soldiers did so "against their will," something he attributed to "the tragedy of war."

 But he said there was no evidence this had been officially sanctioned by the state and that the use of prostitutes by servicemen was not unique to Japan.

 "There are many examples" of unacceptable and brutal behavior by soldiers in wartime and "to contain such things, it is a cold fact that a certain system like comfort women was necessary," he said.

 Japan's top government spokesman and Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga on Tuesday refused to comment directly on Hashimoto's remarks.

 However, he said: "The government's position on the comfort women issue is that, as I repeatedly said here, we feel pains towards people who experienced hardships that are beyond description and (this) administration shares the view held by past governments."

 In a landmark 1993 statement, the Japanese government offered "sincere apologies" for the "immeasurable pain and suffering" inflicted on comfort women.

 Two years later, Japan issued a broader apology expressing "deep remorse" for war suffering.

 The 1993 statement remains passionately opposed by some Japanese conservatives who contend that the country did not directly coerce women.

 Despite a hawkish stance on history, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe indicated last week he does not intend to backtrack on these apologies.

 Japan's shared history with its Asian neighbors looms over present-day relations, which are also strained by separate territorial disputes with Seoul and Beijing.

 Both capitals say Tokyo has not shown sufficient contrition for its World War Two behavior. But many in Japan feel nationalists abroad use the issue as a stick to beat for their own domestic ends.

 Hashimoto, who was once mentioned as a possible future prime minister, said Monday that Japan bears responsibility for the war and urged compassion for victims.

 "(Comfort women were) a result of the tragedy of war so we have to take care with thoughtfulness of those people who became comfort women against their will," he said.

 Shintaro Ishihara, a former Tokyo governor and the other co-leader of the Japan Restoration Party, came to Hashimoto's defense on Tuesday, arguing prostitutes and militaries have co-existed throughout history.

 "Although Mr. Hashimoto's comments are unpleasant to hear, he is not saying anything wrong," he said.
