As Carmelo Anthony, LeBron James keep NBA waiting, free agent Paul Pierce playing in World Series of Poker - NY Daily News
Howard Simmons/New York Daily News Paul Pierce is a free agent like LeBron James but instead of making everyone wait for his decision, Pierce is playing in the World Series of Poker in Las Vegas.
ORLANDO -- While the rest of the NBA waited breathlessly for LeBron James to state his intentions, Paul Pierce was busy stacking chips, hanging indoors with sunglasses and, apparently, not coming to any conclusions about his free agency.
"I don't even know where I'm going," Pierce said Thursday night in a Google Hangout from the World Series of Poker in Las Vegas, where he advanced to the third day of the competition. "I had a great time in Brooklyn (last season). Even though we started off slow, we turned it around. Unfortunately we didn't get to our ultimate goal, but I enjoyed the experience and who knows where I'll be next year."
This may be just posturing from Pierce, considering the Nets can pay him more than anybody else and his agent, Jeff Schwartz, was negotiating with Brooklyn with still a "wide gap" in salary figures, a source said. But it's also an indication of where free agency stands 11 days into what has been madness.
There has been less movement than usual because of James, mostly. Pierce hasn't gotten his market value or full scope of options because teams are holding their space for either James or Carmelo Anthony.
"Things start moving once the top guys get out of free agency," Celtics GM Danny Ainge said on Thursday.
Pierce confirmed that he spoke with his former coach, Doc Rivers, about joining the Clippers, who have engaged in talks with Nets GM Billy King on potential sign-and-trades. King, however, said last week that what the Clippers were offering for Pierce -- reportedly a combination of Matt Barnes, Jared Dudley and Reggie Bullock -- "made no sense."
The Clippers have since used up their mid-level exception on Spencer Hawes, meaning the only way Rivers will reunite with Pierce is through a sign-and-trade or by Pierce agreeing to a minimum contract. "Doc has given me a call," Pierce said. "Right now, it's free agency so you can talk to teams, so I've talked to Doc.
"Right now, I think everybody's waiting to see what LeBron and Melo do before all the chips fall into place, and then you'll see a lot more guys signing."
Two teams likely to emerge from the Anthony and James saga with money to spend are the Lakers and Bulls. It's unclear if they'll have interest in Pierce, but the small forward is from Los Angeles, and Chicago is an Eastern Conference contender if Derek Rose is healthy.
The Nets already have 11 players under contract, including Kevin Garnett, and three unsigned second-round draft picks. A 12th player -- Bojan Bogdanovic -- is expected to sign shortly. Pierce would be the final big piece, but he seems unfazed by the commotion of free agency.
All of his tweets since free agency began have been from the poker event -- including three selfie photos -- recounting how much money he won or lost on a certain day. "Long day still grinding got over 100k in front gotta stay patient ill Holla back in couple hrs," read one.
