Carmelo Anthony officially opts out of Knicks contract; will he meet with the Mavs? | Dallas Morning News
Update (June 23): Carmelo Anthony officially opted out of the final year of his contract with the New York Knicks and will test free agency this summer, his agent Leon Rose said. "Carmelo loves being a Knick, he loves the city, and he loves the fans," Rose said. "At this stage of his career, he just wants to explore his options." The Chicago Bulls are the favorites to land the 30-year-old superstar followed closely by the Houston Rockets, Dallas Mavericks, and Miami Heat.
Anthony can sign a maximum contract worth $129 million over five years with the Knicks. He can sign a maximum deal worth $96 million over four years with any other team. Anthony can begin to meet with teams like the Mavericks on July 1, the start of the NBA's free-agency period.
Update (June 18): Carmelo Anthony had what he called a "great meeting" with Knicks president Phil Jackson, general manager Steve Mills and head coach Derek Fisher in Los Angeles last week, according to a recent ESPN report. On Fisher's hiring, Anthony added: "I like what Phil is doing." The 30-year-old superstar is still expected to opt out of the final year of his contract and test free agency this summer. He has until June 23 to inform the Knicks.
Update (June 14): Now it appears the Houston Rockets and Chicago Bulls are the "clear frontrunners to acquire Carmelo Anthony," according to a Yahoo report. Anthony is hoping one of those team's can clear the necessary salary-cap space to sign him in free agency, so he can play for an immediate championship contender. The report called re-signing with the Knicks a "fading priority" for the superstar even after meeting with team officials Friday night.
Update (June 13): According to an ESPN report, Carmelo Anthony plans to opt out of his deal with the New York Knicks, keeping a potential move to the Mavericks a possibility. Knicks president Phil Jackson spoke with Anthony earlier in June to consider staying in New York. He has until June 23rd to make a decision on remaining with the Knicks.
Original post (June 11): If forward Carmelo Anthony decides to leave the New York Knicks this offseason, then the Dallas Mavericks would reportedly be a possible landing spot.
According to an ESPN report, the Mavs, Chicago Bulls and Houston Rockets are places Anthony would consider if he decides to leave New York this offseason and become a free agent.
New Knicks president Phil Jackson is trying to persuade Anthony to exercise the player option on his contract for the upcoming season and delay testing free agency until 2015-2016, the report says.
SportsDay's Eddie Sefko says Anthony's offensive talent would bring the kind of scoring that Dallas needs. One challenge, Sefko says, would be for coach Rick Carlisle to force Anthony to buy into the Mavs' team-first system -- something Anthony has had difficulty grasping at other stops.
A seven-time All-Star, Anthony has averaged 25.3 points, 6.5 rebounds and 3.1 assists per game in his 11-year career.
