ST. PETERSBURG, FLA.-Jose Reyes gave Munenori Kawasaki a heartfelt hug and a handshake inside the visiting clubhouse here, moments after Blue Jays manager John Gibbons announced that Kawasaki will be sent back to Triple-A Buffalo. 


Reyes, the Jays' speedy shortstop and leadoff hitter, will make his long-awaited return to the club's lineup on Wednesday - an occasion that should herald optimism and excitement among the Jays and their fans. But on Tuesday night, the mood was sombre, and not only because the Jays lost their second straight to Tampa. 


"This is the part of the game that sucks," said starting pitcher Mark Buehrle. "Between the fans and the guys in here, everybody's fallen in love with this guy."

Kawasaki became an immediate fan favourite upon arriving in Toronto two months ago to replace the injured Reyes. While he could never replicate Reyes' skills on the field, the enthusiasm with which Kawasaki played seemed to lighten the loss of one of the team's most important players. Kawasaki's fun-loving legend grew with every bow, every dance move and every viral video.


His popularity reached its apex last Friday when he clubbed his first career home run against Baltimore to tie the game, earning a curtain call from the Rogers Centre crowd. 


"It's tough to do. He's a big part of this team," said Gibbons, who explained that he and GM Alex Anthopoulos elected to continue with an eight-man bullpen - which has been remarkably strong of late - rather than sacrifice a pitcher to keep Kawasaki.


But Gibbons took the rare step on Tuesday of calling a team meeting to let other Jays players know Kawasaki was being sent down.


"I've never seen that," said Buehrle, a veteran of more than 14 seasons. "Usually you come in the next day and look at the guy's locker and say, 'Oh, that guy got sent down, this guy's coming up.'" 


Such is the impact Kawasaki has made in his brief stint with the team. 


"He's almost got a cult-hero-type following (among fans) and he's a cult hero in the clubhouse as well," said R.A. Dickey, who will start on Wednesday as the Jays try to salvage a win in the series against the Rays.


Kawasaki himself took his demotion better than anyone.


"It's not as if I've died," he said through a Japanese interpreter following Tuesday's game. "I'm still a baseball player. It's just that tomorrow the field will be different. I'm still around and I'm still here to help the team when they need it. And it's been a terrific experience and I really appreciate everybody - and I love everybody." 


Beaming wide, Kawasaki thanked the fans in Toronto as well as his teammates for their support.


"I can't believe it. I absolutely can't believe the way I've been accepted by the players here and by the fans. This one strange Japanese guy to come here and be accepted the way he has has really been an unbelievable experience."


Much of what made Kawasaki such an instant hit in the city with fans and players alike was the unbridled joy with which he played the game. Signed by Jays assistant GM Andrew Tinnish as a minor-league free agent after he was released by the Seattle Mariners in the off-season, Kawasaki was asked Tuesday if he felt he had made a statement with his play in Toronto that he was more than just a minor-leaguer.


"I'm just one lucky guy to be able to play baseball," he said. "I'm lucky to play the game and to play the game in this environment so I don't feel like I came up here to show anybody anything other than how much I love the game of baseball, and I'm going to continue to do that and I just feel like I'm one lucky guy."


 


While he hit just .225 with a single memorable homer, his .337 on-base percentage ranks fifth-highest on the team. He lacked Reyes' range and athleticism at shortstop, but he was steady in the position.


Kawasaki, who rarely plays against left-handed pitching, was kept out of the starting lineup on Tuesday against Rays' southpaw Matt Moore, who dominated the Jays, striking out 11 in six innings to lead Tampa to a 5-1 victory, handing Toronto its second straight loss.


With the lights occasionally flickering inside Tropicana Field and thunder booming outside, the Jays offence was once again shut down by the Rays' stellar rotation. Against Moore and Monday's starter Jeremy Hellickson the Jays managed just five measly hits, all singles. 


"That's what they do, they pitch," Gibbons said.


Meanwhile, Buehrle did not have his best stuff on Tuesday, lasting just five innings while giving up four runs on eight hits and four walks. The veteran lefty, who seemed more upset over Kawasaki's demotion than his own loss, tried to look on the bright side.


"On the other hand, we're getting Reyes back."
