Blue Jays Send Popular Fan and Team Favorite Munenori Kawasaki to Minors 
   

The good news for the Toronto Blue Jays is that shortstop Jose Reyes will be back in the lineup on Wednesday against the Tampa Bay Rays.

The bad news-for both fans and teammates-is that Munenori Kawasaki became the sacrificial lamb.

Arash Madani  @ArashMadani  
 Munenori Kawasaki has been sent down - the corresponding move for Jose Reyes's call-up tomorrow. Don't shoot the messenger, #Bluejays fans.


In order to make room for Reyes on the roster, Kawasaki received word after the game on Tuesday that he was being sent to the minors in order to make room for Reyes.

The news was indeed received with sadness, especially by the players.

In fact, Blue Jays manager John Gibbons called a brief team meeting to inform the players of the news.

Gregor Chisholm  @gregorMLB  
 #BlueJays manager John Gibbons called a team meeting after the game to inform the club that Kawasaki was being sent down. That's very rare.

Arash Madani  @ArashMadani  
 John Gibbons told the #Bluejays, in an impromptu post-game meeting, that Kawasaki had been sent down. Buehrle: "I've never seen that before"



That is an indication of the impact that Kawasaki had on his teammates, never mind the city of Toronto.

Kawasaki quickly endeared himself to the city with his exuberance. After delivering a walk-off hit last month, Kawasaki gave an interview that captivated the entire city.

His wacky ways and demeanor quickly rubbed off on his teammates as well. Witness his dance on the plane ride home after the Blue Jays won their 11th straight game.

He hit .225 with one home run and 17 RBI in 60 games, hitting his first-ever home run last Friday against the Baltimore Orioles.

When Kawasaki was asked about his thoughts on demotion, something got lost in translation.

Gregor Chisholm  @gregorMLB  
 Kawasaki was asked what his final message to #BlueJays fans was, but he misunderstood the question and answered: "I'm hungry."


The Twitter universe weighed in on Kawasaki's demotion as well.

Joe Veyera  @JosephVeyera  
 Nothing has filled me with more sadness than learning that Munenori Kawasaki has been sent down by the #BlueJays. #Mariners #EnergyBoy

Jay Close   @CloseyJ  
 Munenori Kawasaki: class act through and through, wish him the best, hope to see him again in a Jays uniform #Bluejays

As for Gibbons, he had one simple message.

Arash Madani  @ArashMadani  
 Gibbons said sending Kawasaki down was a "hard decision, but we wanted to keep our pitching intact." Added, "He'll be back." #Bluejays #Jays


So take heart, Blue Jays fans-your favorite player will be back.


