Did Japan 'Need' Comfort Women?


In recent years, Toru Hashimoto, a 43-year-old former television commentator who is mayor of Osaka, Japan's third largest city, has been making political waves, challenging the status quo with a brash, very un-Japanese approach. He's known for provocative right-wing statements, quick, the-buck-stops-with-me decisions, and a willingness to battle labor unions and the establishment in a culture known for consensus-building. Last September, he formed a new political party, the Japan Restoration Association, and named about 350 candidates, most political neophytes, to run in the next parliamentary elections.
 
Whatever one thinks of his style, however, he crossed a line on Monday with his reprehensible comments on Japan's wartime behavior. This politician, who some envision as a future prime minister, effectively endorsed wartime rape and sexual enslavement.
 
During Japan's occupation in World War II, as many as 200,000 women were rounded up across Asia to work as sex slaves - the Japanese euphemism is "comfort women" - for the Japanese Army. Many of the women came from China and South Korea but others were from the Philippines, Indonesia and Taiwan.
 
Survivors still bear the scars of this abuse and Japan formally apologized in 1993.
 
One might expect that given his young age, his education (he is a lawyer) and the fact that he is living in a highly developed country where women are also becoming more educated and independent, Mr. Hashimoto would revile - and vow never to repeat - the sins of the past.
 
Instead, he told reporters that the sex slaves served a useful purpose. "When soldiers are risking their lives by running through storms of bullets, and you want to give these emotionally charged soldiers a rest somewhere, it's clear that you need a comfort women system," he said.
 
He insisted that brothels "were necessary at the time to maintain discipline in the army;" and he claimed there was no proof that the Japanese authorities had forced women into servitude. He attributed the women's experiences, vaguely, to "the tragedy of war." At least he bothered to say that surviving comfort women deserved kindness from Japan.
 
There are any number of countries where men continue to exploit conflict to rape women, including Syria and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Would Mr. Hashimoto defend such atrocities as a necessary respite for overworked soldiers?
 
Mr. Hashimoto's comments may be among the most extreme but he is not the only Japanese politician revisiting the country's wartime history and stoking dangerous new tensions with the countries Japan once occupied.
 
Japanese ultranationalists have condemned the 1993 apology to comfort women, as well as a 1995 apology to nations that suffered from Japanese aggression during the war. The new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, initially signaled that he might revise the apologies, but last week his government promised to uphold them.
 
On Tuesday, the Japanese government distanced itself from Mr. Hashimoto's comments but Mr. Abe and other top officials need to go further and condemn them outright. It's hard to believe that anyone who espouses such outrageous views as Mr. Hashimoto has much of a political future in Japan or anywhere else.


mayor's sex slave remarks 'outrageous' - US Toru Hashimoto's remarks have drawn criticism both from around the region and beyond 


The US has condemned recent remarks by Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto justifying Japan's war-time use of sex slaves as "outrageous and offensive". 

A US state department spokesman said such women had been victims of a "grave human rights violation". 

Mr Hashimoto said on Monday that the use of such women had been "necessary". 

Japan forced an estimated 200,000 women in occupied territories to become prostitutes for troops during World War II. 

Many of the women came from China and South Korea, but also from the Philippines, Indonesia and Taiwan.

The Japanese government, which in 1993 issued a formal apology over the issue, has sought to distance itself from his remarks. 

'Deplorable'
 
"Mayor Hashimoto's comments were outrageous and offensive," said state department spokeswoman Jen Psaki.

"What happened in that era to these women who were trafficked for sexual purposes is deplorable and clearly a grave human rights violation of enormous proportions," she said. 

Mr Hashimoto, the co-founder of the nationalist Japanese Restoration Party, which has a small presence in parliament, said enforced prostitution had been necessary to keep troops in line. 

"If you want them [troops fighting a war] to have a rest in such a situation, a comfort women system is necessary. Anyone can understand that." 

He also provoked outrage on the island of Okinawa - home to a large US military presence - by suggesting that base-related crime could be reduced if US troops were encouraged to use the local sex industry so that "the sexual energy of those tough guys" could be controlled.

On Thursday Mr Hashimoto offered to meet former sex slaves and "apologise firmly" for Japan's actions, calling them "a disgraceful act" that should not be repeated. 

But he reiterated his stance that Japan was not alone in exploiting local women during wartime. 

"Everybody was doing bad things. I think Japanese people... should offer objections if there is a misunderstanding of facts in the world."

And on Okinawa, he blamed a cultural gap with the US on perceptions of prostitution, saying his "international sensitivity was quite poor when I had to operate beyond national borders". 

Both South Korea and China have condemned Mr Hashimoto's remarks, which come at a time when historical issues and territorial rows have elevated tensions in the region. 

A new right-wing government led by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took power in December 2012. 

Last month, he angered China and South Korea when he suggested he may no longer stand by the wording of Japan's 1995 apology for its war-time aggression, saying the definition of "aggression" was hard to establish.

Japanese ministers later sought to play down his remarks, amid anger across the region - where the feeling that Japan has not sufficiently atoned for, or educated its population enough about, its war-time behaviour is deeply entrenched.

