San Antonio Spurs' grinding halt - TrueHoop Blog - ESPN
The
San Antonio Spurs	 are great at exploiting an advantage that was hiding in plain sight. Sometimes it's a simple discovery, like how 3-pointers from the corner are just a bit easier than other shots from behind the arc. Sometimes there's more nuance to their edge, like how
Manu Ginobili	 creates these open corner 3s by leaping out of bounds for his passing angle. It's not a natural thing to jump out of bounds with the ball in your hands. Or it wasn't, until the Spurs made the hammer set a normal way of doing business.
Jumping out of bounds might go against basic basketball instinct, but this team has thrived with the counterintuitive approach that only later looks obvious. The 2014 title winners pulled off another pioneering coup in playing their best guys significantly less than anyone else would.
Tony Parker	led the Spurs this year with 29.4 minutes per game.
Tim Duncan led the team in total minutes with 2,158, nearly a thousand fewer than what his Western Conference Finals opponent Kevin Durant logged (3,122). By the end of that series, Durant had played 1,192 minutes more than Duncan -- roughly the equivalent of 25 total NBA games.
Perhaps the minutes difference factors into two of the most memorable plays from that series. Kevin Durant slipped and fell with the season on the line. Old Man Riverwalk sunk a huge basket over a lively Thunder double-team. The Spurs went on to trounce Miami in possibly the most lopsided Finals of all time. There were many reasons why this happened, but San Antonio's team certainly looked fresh at a time in the season where teams are worn down. In victory, the Spurs are an object lesson in the value of rest. It's not just about winning in the postseason, either. The Spurs had the best regular-season record with this approach, too.
So will all the other teams follow suit? Not so fast, when you take into account that stars have to buy into a program where minutes are rationed. We have a system in place that rewards the individual for overworking himself. The more you play, the more likely you are to win All-NBA, All-Star, All-Defense and MVP votes.
It's not an entirely illogical bias, either. When weighing who should get an individual award between two equally qualified candidates, it makes sense to lean on minutes played. Parker and
Kawhi Leonard	 are slight exceptions to the rule, in that they garnered second-team All-NBA and second-team All-Defense, respectively. For the most part, it's difficult for a guy playing fewer than 30 minutes to get proper recognition.
Take Ginobili, who, statistically, has an argument over
Kobe Bryant	 on a per-minute basis. Now, before you throw the laptop out the window, keep in mind that I'm not saying Manu was better than Kobe. I'm just saying that you'd expect more than two All-Star appearances from a guy whose advanced stats (offensive rating, win shares per 48 minutes) compare favorably to an all-time great.
Low minute totals helped keep Ginobili healthy, but that also diminished his reputation relative to his skill set. His 2006-07 season might have been his finest, but a 16.5 scoring average looks unimpressive on its face. Ginobili is one of the best passing wings ever to play, but he's never averaged five assists per game.
That's the real killer when it comes to playing fewer minutes: Your overall numbers look mingy. Chris "Birdman" Andersen killed
Jamal Crawford　in the advanced stats, but Crawford scored 18.6 points per game and Birdman scored 6.6. It's no wonder the former won the Sixth Man of the Year award.
As John Hollinger used to note, the Most Improved Player award is often really just a reflection of which good player finally got minutes. Per minute, there isn't much statistical difference between 2011-12
Paul George	 and 2012-13 MIP-winning Paul George. Indiana's rising star saw a 1,014 minute increase in 2012-13, which made his raw stats look better. More minutes means more credit.
[+] Enlarge	Robert Mayer/USA TODAY SportsWith a bench as deep as the Spurs', Gregg Popovich had no trouble managing his team's minutes.
The Spurs don't care if we ignore their individual greatness on account of low minute totals. So what if early-season criticism of Leonard's progress was mostly based on minutes played? He won Finals MVP in the end. They've found this awesome market inefficiency with a "less is more" approach and are just fine if other players can't trade accolades for effectiveness.
But since the Spurs are showing us what works, perhaps we should learn from them. If the goal of these awards is to acknowledge great basketball, then we could stand to lean towards quality over quantity.
It might also be wise to look at how other incentives fight against great basketball. The Spurs are famous for not subjecting older players to back-to-back games. For this approach, Gregg Popovich paid -- quite literally in the form of a $250,000 fine for the Spurs -- when San Antonio excused its best players from a nationally televised game versus the Heat. The NBA's a business, and Popovich's choice worked against those interests. In that context, the fine made sense, but it also reflected a subversive truth: The Spurs are giving us the best possible team basketball while working against what basketball is used to being.
Basketball is used to being a place where stars are perpetually present for the 82-game grind. It's a game that sells its heroes, and for those heroes to be heroic, they must be impervious to the fatigue of 82. The problem is, this isn't realistic. There are more games than means for physically coping. Logging 40 minutes per outing might help with awards voting returns, but returns diminish on the court. Maybe it's time to give more credit to the guy who plays less.

NBA Finals: No reason San Antonio Spurs can't win it all again next season - The Washington Post
Tim Duncan and the Spurs beat the Heat on Sunday night to clinch their fifth NBA title in 15 seasons. (Larry W. Smith/european pressphoto agency)
SAN ANTONIO -- The Larry O'Brien trophy rested between Tim Duncan's legs as he wrapped his arms around Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili, the duo that has been with him for four of his five championships with the San Antonio Spurs. To the right of the winningest playoff trio in NBA history sat Kawhi Leonard, the future of the franchise who had to babysit a Finals MVP trophy amidst the celebration.
Soon the Spurs' white championship T-shirts would be covered in beer and expensive champagne and smelling of cigars. It would serve as the culmination of a surprisingly dominant title run that few outside of the locker room could have imagined just last season, following a devastating loss to LeBron James and the Miami Heat. But the Spurs built upon that defeat, used it as motivation to claim the title that had eluded the organization for seven years.
"It's so sweet to win a championship the way we did it. I would change nothing," Parker said after the Spurs completed a five-game rout of the two-time defending champion. "It makes it even better, the fact that we had to go through a tough loss in Game 6 and Game 7 [in 2013], and to come back, it just makes the journey even more worth it."
The Spurs' fifth championship was significant on many levels. Duncan joined Kobe Bryant with the most titles in the post-Michael Jordan era. Coach Gregg Popovich joined Phil Jackson, Red Auerbach, John Kundla and Pat Riley as the only coaches with five rings. And San Antonio now ranks fourth among NBA franchises behind the Boston Celtics (17), the Minneapolis/Los Angeles Lakers (16) and the Chicago Bulls (six).
But it also is a testament to continuity, consistency and longevity, phrases that are rarely uttered in professional sports, in which change is the only constant. Since Duncan arrived in San Antonio in 1997, the franchise has won at least 50 games every season except one -- the 50-game lockout shortened season in 1999, when the Spurs won their first championship.
Duncan now has the second-longest span between his first and latest titles, behind only Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who won his first in 1971 and his last in 1988. Abdul-Jabbar not only changed names during that time; he also changed teams, which makes what Duncan and the Spurs have accomplished even more impressive.
They won titles in 1999 and 2003 -- bookends to the Shaquille O'Neal-Kobe Bryant three-peat with the Lakers. They won two more in 2005 and 2007, reached the Finals last season and won it all this season.
Jackson also coached the Lakers to five championships in that span, but he took a season off after being dismissed following a Finals loss to Detroit in 2004. Popovich and Duncan have stayed on the same journey, with no interruptions, for 17 years.
No matter how timeless Duncan's game has remained at age 38, he eventually will have to retire. And Popovich has always said he will step aside with Duncan.
"I don't have any plans on doing anything," Duncan, who has a $10.3 million option for next season, said recently. "I'm going to figure it out when it comes. I'm not saying I'm retiring. I'm not saying I'm not retiring. I'm not saying anything. I'm going to figure it out as it goes. I've always said if I feel like I'm effective, if I feel like I can contribute, I'll continue to play. Right now I feel that way, so we'll see what happens."
Spurs General Manager R.C. Buford said over the weekend he hasn't been given any inclination that either plans to leave but often wonders what will happen when the Duncan -- and possibly Duncan-Popovich -- era comes to a conclusion.
"We've already got Tim's successor picked out," Buford said, joking it would be the 30th pick of the 2014 NBA draft. "I can't predict when that will happen, nor know when you have one of the great players of all time and one of the great coaches of all time how you're going to fill those shoes, because you're not."
Teams don't usually win championships seven years apart without a dramatic roster makeover, but the Spurs have managed to get it done while keeping their core of Duncan, Parker and Ginobili intact.
"There were times that other people said we should be breaking it up. But what's the alternative? Our best alternative was to keep the group together," Buford said.
The commitment seemed admirable, but a championship seemed far-fetched after the Spurs suffered a first-round loss to Dallas in 2009, a second-round loss to Phoenix in 2010 and another first-round loss to Memphis in 2011. After each defeat, eulogies were written. But the Spurs kept coming back, with Duncan, Parker and Ginobili taking less money whenever their contracts came up because they trusted Buford and Popovich to find the right pieces.
San Antonio reloaded in the most unique manner, swapping a valued reserve in George Hill for the 15th pick to get Leonard, signing Boris Diaw after he was cut by Charlotte and picking up Danny Green from the scrap heap. Those moves, in conjunction with signing Patty Mills and creating a more wide open offense, helped the Spurs become contenders again.
"I never really cared about what people said about us," Ginobili said. "There's not one season since I'm in the NBA that I really didn't truly believe that we could've won it. Playing with the teammates I've always played, coached by the guy that is coaching us, I always felt that we had a shot."
And if they all decided to come back for at least one more run, there is little reason to doubt San Antonio doesn't have another one.
