San Antonio Spurs' grinding halt - TrueHoop Blog - ESPN
The
San Antonio Spurs	 are great at exploiting an advantage that was hiding in plain sight. Sometimes it's a simple discovery, like how 3-pointers from the corner are just a bit easier than other shots from behind the arc. Sometimes there's more nuance to their edge, like how
Manu Ginobili	 creates these open corner 3s by leaping out of bounds for his passing angle. It's not a natural thing to jump out of bounds with the ball in your hands. Or it wasn't, until the Spurs made the hammer set a normal way of doing business.
Jumping out of bounds might go against basic basketball instinct, but this team has thrived with the counterintuitive approach that only later looks obvious. The 2014 title winners pulled off another pioneering coup in playing their best guys significantly less than anyone else would.
Tony Parker	led the Spurs this year with 29.4 minutes per game.
Tim Duncan led the team in total minutes with 2,158, nearly a thousand fewer than what his Western Conference Finals opponent Kevin Durant logged (3,122). By the end of that series, Durant had played 1,192 minutes more than Duncan -- roughly the equivalent of 25 total NBA games.
Perhaps the minutes difference factors into two of the most memorable plays from that series. Kevin Durant slipped and fell with the season on the line. Old Man Riverwalk sunk a huge basket over a lively Thunder double-team. The Spurs went on to trounce Miami in possibly the most lopsided Finals of all time. There were many reasons why this happened, but San Antonio's team certainly looked fresh at a time in the season where teams are worn down. In victory, the Spurs are an object lesson in the value of rest. It's not just about winning in the postseason, either. The Spurs had the best regular-season record with this approach, too.
So will all the other teams follow suit? Not so fast, when you take into account that stars have to buy into a program where minutes are rationed. We have a system in place that rewards the individual for overworking himself. The more you play, the more likely you are to win All-NBA, All-Star, All-Defense and MVP votes.
It's not an entirely illogical bias, either. When weighing who should get an individual award between two equally qualified candidates, it makes sense to lean on minutes played. Parker and
Kawhi Leonard	 are slight exceptions to the rule, in that they garnered second-team All-NBA and second-team All-Defense, respectively. For the most part, it's difficult for a guy playing fewer than 30 minutes to get proper recognition.
Take Ginobili, who, statistically, has an argument over
Kobe Bryant	 on a per-minute basis. Now, before you throw the laptop out the window, keep in mind that I'm not saying Manu was better than Kobe. I'm just saying that you'd expect more than two All-Star appearances from a guy whose advanced stats (offensive rating, win shares per 48 minutes) compare favorably to an all-time great.
Low minute totals helped keep Ginobili healthy, but that also diminished his reputation relative to his skill set. His 2006-07 season might have been his finest, but a 16.5 scoring average looks unimpressive on its face. Ginobili is one of the best passing wings ever to play, but he's never averaged five assists per game.
That's the real killer when it comes to playing fewer minutes: Your overall numbers look mingy. Chris "Birdman" Andersen killed
Jamal Crawford　in the advanced stats, but Crawford scored 18.6 points per game and Birdman scored 6.6. It's no wonder the former won the Sixth Man of the Year award.
As John Hollinger used to note, the Most Improved Player award is often really just a reflection of which good player finally got minutes. Per minute, there isn't much statistical difference between 2011-12
Paul George	 and 2012-13 MIP-winning Paul George. Indiana's rising star saw a 1,014 minute increase in 2012-13, which made his raw stats look better. More minutes means more credit.
[+] Enlarge	Robert Mayer/USA TODAY SportsWith a bench as deep as the Spurs', Gregg Popovich had no trouble managing his team's minutes.
The Spurs don't care if we ignore their individual greatness on account of low minute totals. So what if early-season criticism of Leonard's progress was mostly based on minutes played? He won Finals MVP in the end. They've found this awesome market inefficiency with a "less is more" approach and are just fine if other players can't trade accolades for effectiveness.
But since the Spurs are showing us what works, perhaps we should learn from them. If the goal of these awards is to acknowledge great basketball, then we could stand to lean towards quality over quantity.
It might also be wise to look at how other incentives fight against great basketball. The Spurs are famous for not subjecting older players to back-to-back games. For this approach, Gregg Popovich paid -- quite literally in the form of a $250,000 fine for the Spurs -- when San Antonio excused its best players from a nationally televised game versus the Heat. The NBA's a business, and Popovich's choice worked against those interests. In that context, the fine made sense, but it also reflected a subversive truth: The Spurs are giving us the best possible team basketball while working against what basketball is used to being.
Basketball is used to being a place where stars are perpetually present for the 82-game grind. It's a game that sells its heroes, and for those heroes to be heroic, they must be impervious to the fatigue of 82. The problem is, this isn't realistic. There are more games than means for physically coping. Logging 40 minutes per outing might help with awards voting returns, but returns diminish on the court. Maybe it's time to give more credit to the guy who plays less.

LeBron James is not going anywhere - The Washington Post
SAN ANTONIO -- On one side of the court, in the waning seconds of a five-game TKO, the new champions kept hugging, their mouths agape at how much of a beatdown they administered on LeBron James's outclassed team.
On the other, the deposed king shook his head in disbelief. LeBron was not just marveling at how efficient and lethal the San Antonio Spurs were. He had to be wondering, deep down, how he ended up with such a sorry, barely formidable lot to compete in the NBA Finals after back-to-back titles put the Heat on the cusp of a dynasty.
It's right and just that the Spurs will be feted with a parade Tuesday and that this town can continue celebrating its test-of-time team and the Spurs' vindication a year after being so close.
But now LeBron is the story because the axis of power in the NBA depends on what he is thinking.
He gave us a glimpse in the postgame news conference and myriad quotes the past few days, none of which announced his certain return to Miami in a summer in which he can opt out of his current contract -- and all of which had to concern Heat owner Micky Arison, President Pat Riley and Coach Erik Spoelstra.
The Post Sports Live crew discusses how many more NBA championships LeBron James has to win to be considered one of the greatest basketball players of all time. (Jayne Orenstein / Post Sports Live)
Sometimes when the elite of the elite speak, you need translators to parse the pauses, inflection and the things unsaid, the between-the-lines messages telepathically transported to ownership, management and fans.
"LeBron, what are your thoughts about what you've learned over the years from management, coaches, just how the organization has treated you?" he was asked Sunday night after Miami was emasculated, 104-87.
"I mean, I play for my teammates every single night," he said. "I don't really get involved in management and all of that. . . . I try to inspire my teammates. I let guys do their jobs, and I do mine."
I'm not a LeBronologist, but having first met LeBron his senior year of high school, I know a little about him. And I can provide some insight into the general thought process that goes on in the minds of the greatest players to play the game.
When they are rich and famous and already beyond successful, they care about being the winner, not merely winning. They win championships or they are the loser each season. However detestable that sounds to the values of sport and life, that's how they think.
Which is why LeBron isn't going anywhere.
I could be dead wrong about this, but I will take my chances.
LeBron sent messages Sunday night, all right.
"The Spurs continue to get better," he said. "Obviously, they kept those three guys intact, but they continue to put guys around them, high-IQ basketball guys around them, high-energy guys around them that fit into the system of what Pop wanted to do."
'Bronspeak: We didn't get better. We amnestied my guy Mike Miller, who hit so many big three-pointers for us in the clutch regardless of whether he could move his feet laterally on defense, and we went out and acquired broken wings like Mike Beasley and Greg Oden, who didn't help us boo when it mattered.
Our role players can't rebound, shoot and pass like Tim, Manu and Tony's role players. Birdman can rebound. Rio can shoot a little, and sometimes he can't even do that. They have basketball players; we have specialists who can do one or two things but can't be the cog in a machine needed to play the way I want to play. When is Riles going to get me those guys, someone who can pick up slack for 30-something D. Wade so I don't have to play so many minutes in the regular season? And how long do I wait?
And this quote:
"I mean, I will deal with my summer when I get to that point," he said after he was asked about his future again. "Me and my team will sit down and get to that point. I love Miami. My family loves it. But obviously, right now that's not what I'm thinking about.
"You guys are trying to find answers. I'm not going to give you one. I'm just not going to give it to you. When I get to that point, I'll deal with it."
'Bronspeak: I was told to be mysterious because when I say my team, I mean Maverick Carter and Rich Paul, the cats sitting in on all my press conferences who I've known since I was a kid and who basically jumped on my gravy train and remain two dudes I still trust to help me make the right decisions (even if Mav messed up "The Decision" something awful.)
Anyway, I'm not going anywhere. At this point in my career, I've got everything I need in Miami as far as resources and clout to help me get what I want -- as many or more championships than Michael. The only thing missing is real players who fit my game. So I'll probably opt in to my deal for a year, take less money and make it clear that we need new blood. Now.
By the way, Spo' made some real shaky moves with our rotation. At the moment, I'm on the outs with him. He needs to be better like all of us. He's on notice.
I have no idea whether this is LeBron's actual thought process. But I do believe he will give the Heat one season to make things right and ensure he has the tools to win consecutive titles soon.
He is not tone-deaf anymore about his image. He knows leaving Miami after a bad ending in San Antonio would look too much like leaving Cleveland, like a cook who leaves the kitchen when it gets too hot.
If his legacy is truly more important than money, he can start over again. But it has to be in Miami with a new roster because anywhere else will eventually lead to the same frustrations. It would end up with LeBron realizing the common denominator was a player who didn't have the patience to wait for his team to be great again.
If he should learn anything from Tim Duncan and the Spurs, it is that the best things come to future Hall of Famers who wait the non-champion years out to hoist the trophy again.
For more by Mike Wise, visit washingtonpost.com/wise.
