Canada 'very clear' on concerns about Mohamed Fahmy verdict, Stephen Harper says | Toronto Star
zoom
OTTAWA--Prime Minister Stephen Harper said Ottawa has been "very clear" on concerns about the jailing of Egyptian-Canadian journalist Mohamed Fahmy.
In his first public comments on Fahmy's sentencing to seven years in Egyptian prison, Harper said Canadian authorities have been expressing concerns to Egypt "from the beginning."
"Obviously there's some difficult circumstances here, but the Egyptian authorities are very aware of the position of the government of Canada and we will continue to press that position going forward," Harper told reporters in Quebec on Wednesday.
Harper was asked about Fahmy's case in French, and returned to the issue in an unprompted English comment at the end of his brief news conference.
He did not call for the release of Fahmy and two other jailed Al-Jazeera journalists, as Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott did Monday. Nor did he strengthen his government's language around the circumstances of Fahmy's imprisonment.
On June 23, Mohamed Fadel Fahmy, Peter Greste, and Baher Mohamed were sentenced to prison by an Egyptian court on charges of collaborating with terrorists.
The federal Conservatives have been criticized since the journalists' jailing on Monday for a more muted response than other Western governments, including Australia, Britain, and the United States. Despite the fact that no American citizens were involved in the trial, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry called the decision "draconian" and said he angrily phoned his Egyptian counterpart to complain.
Opposition parties and human rights advocates have called on Harper and Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird to take a firmer stand against Egypt. For his part, Baird pointed out Monday that the more vocal complaints from world leaders have not secured the journalists' release.
Fahmy, along with Australian journalist Peter Greste and Egyptian producer Baher Mohamed, were detained by Egyptian security forces in December 2013. Egyptian authorities accused the journalists of terrorism-related offences in relation to their reporting on protests in the wake of the ousting of Muslim Brotherhood President Mohammed Morsi.
Heba Elkholy 				/ The Associated Press file photo
Al-Jazeera's Mohamed Fahmy, centre, along with colleagues Baher Mohamed, left, and Peter Greste, were sentenced to seven years in prison on terrorism-related charges after a trial dismissed by rights groups as a sham.
Amnesty International has said Egyptian authorities provided not a scrap of concrete evidence that the journalists had any connection to the outlawed Brotherhood. The journalists contend they were simply doing their jobs, reporting on the protests that saw security forces slaughter and detain hundreds of Muslim Brotherhood supporters.
Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi, a general during that crackdown, has ruled out the possibility of a presidential pardon for the journalists. According to The Associated Press, el-Sissi said the executive will not interfere with the judicial system.
