Had a fruitful meeting with Chinese President Jinping: Modi
IndiaToday.in New Delhi, July 15, 2014 | UPDATED 10:13 IST
Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that he had a "very fruitful meeting" with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Brazil.
"Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President (Mr) Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues," Modi said in a tweet.
Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President Mr. Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues pic.twitter.com/dL6n0p17TO
; Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 15, 2014
Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit in Brazil and discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. In a significant development, China invited India to attend a summit of Asia and Pacific (APEC) leaders.
The two leaders discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. Photo: PTI.
The two leaders, who arrived almost at the same time in Fortaleza last evening for attending the BRICS summit, engaged shortly thereafter for what was described as "good discussions and good meeting".
The meeting was scheduled for 40 minutes but it went on for 80 as it was freewheeling discussion without any constraints.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday
For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. taaj'aatriin kh'broN aur viiddiyo ke lie aajtk.in pr aaeN.

Indian expert on China says extended talks between leaders is a good sign for both nations | Business Standard News
The Chairperson and Associate Professor of Chinese Studies at the Centre for East Asian Studies, School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Alka Acharya, said on Tuesday that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping is a good sign for improving bilateral ties between the two countries.
Acharya told ANI, "These are meetings held on the sidelines of main international gatherings. They have become very useful places where you can do a variety of things. You talk on issues which have not been discussed. In this case, it is the first time that Modi is meeting him (President Jinping) personally. So, maybe certain issues of India's priority may be put before him."
"An informal chat is always better in terms of setting a good ambience. From what I have gathered, he (Modi) has raised two or three issues, one being alternative routes for the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, which the Chinese have considered positively. Another is a peaceful resolution of the border dispute," she added.
She also said, "The fact that that the Chinese President will be visiting India, so, maybe, we can see some kind of broad direction of positive momentum to the relationship."
The PM meeting was scheduled for 40 minutes. However, it went on for 80 minutes.
On this, Archarya said, "It is always a good sign when leaders go on talking for a long time. The fact that it is the first meeting, will always be exploratory one. So, it's a good sign."
Modi, who met President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the VIth BRICS Summit in Fortaleza, Brazil, expressed hope that President Xi Jinping's planned visit to India this year was an opportunity to chart a new and ambitious agenda for the strategic partnership between India and China.
