Had a fruitful meeting with Chinese President Jinping: Modi
IndiaToday.in New Delhi, July 15, 2014 | UPDATED 10:13 IST
Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that he had a "very fruitful meeting" with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Brazil.
"Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President (Mr) Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues," Modi said in a tweet.
Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President Mr. Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues pic.twitter.com/dL6n0p17TO
; Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 15, 2014
Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit in Brazil and discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. In a significant development, China invited India to attend a summit of Asia and Pacific (APEC) leaders.
The two leaders discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. Photo: PTI.
The two leaders, who arrived almost at the same time in Fortaleza last evening for attending the BRICS summit, engaged shortly thereafter for what was described as "good discussions and good meeting".
The meeting was scheduled for 40 minutes but it went on for 80 as it was freewheeling discussion without any constraints.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday
For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. taaj'aatriin kh'broN aur viiddiyo ke lie aajtk.in pr aaeN.

The biggest challenge for BRICS success? Big brother China | Business | Reuters
By Alonso Soto
FORTALEZA Brazil (Reuters) - In two years of tough negotiations to create the new BRICS development bank, the main stumbling block was not a lack of resources or commitment, but fellow partner China.
The Chinese initially wanted a bigger share of the bank that was formally launched on Tuesday by the leaders of the five BRICS countries in a direct challenge to the West's tightly-held grip over global finances, officials involved in talks said.
In the end, Brazil and India prevailed in keeping capital participation equal among members, but fears linger that China, the world's No. 2 economy, could try to assert greater influence over the $100 billion bank to expand its political clout abroad.
"It is inevitable that the Chinese will dominate the new bank," said Riordan Roett, a political scientist at Johns Hopkins University. "The Chinese don't get involved in these ventures unless they are going to have, not total control, but a significant amount of influence."
Known for their striking differences in economics and politics, the BRICS face the challenge of containing China's drive to control institutions that were supposed to give each partner an equal voice.
Internal discord became evident on Tuesday when the group struggled to overcome a last-minute stalemate in negotiations as China and India vied for the headquarters of the bank. To overcome the snag, Brazil withdrew its request for the bank's first presidency in favor of India, a senior official involved in the discussions said.
The bank will be based in Shanghai, China's business hub.
The objective of the bank is to break away from a model that gives little voting rights to emerging economies and perpetuates the dominance of the United States and Europe over the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. Continued...
