Had a fruitful meeting with Chinese President Jinping: Modi
IndiaToday.in New Delhi, July 15, 2014 | UPDATED 10:13 IST
Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that he had a "very fruitful meeting" with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Brazil.
"Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President (Mr) Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues," Modi said in a tweet.
Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President Mr. Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues pic.twitter.com/dL6n0p17TO
; Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 15, 2014
Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit in Brazil and discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. In a significant development, China invited India to attend a summit of Asia and Pacific (APEC) leaders.
The two leaders discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. Photo: PTI.
The two leaders, who arrived almost at the same time in Fortaleza last evening for attending the BRICS summit, engaged shortly thereafter for what was described as "good discussions and good meeting".
The meeting was scheduled for 40 minutes but it went on for 80 as it was freewheeling discussion without any constraints.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday
For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. taaj'aatriin kh'broN aur viiddiyo ke lie aajtk.in pr aaeN.

The halls of Fortaleza's conference centre were full of whispers about whether or not these Brics nations - which often see each other more as rivals than friends - could agree a deal on the development bank.
But challenges were overcome and the announcements were made. Despite their political and economic differences, the one thing these countries do agree upon is that rich countries have too much power in institutions like the World Bank and the IMF.
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff's comments made that feeling crystal clear - the Brics countries, she said, have the power to introduce positive changes - ones that they think are more equal and fair.
At first, the bank will start off with $50bn in initial capital.
The emergency reserve fund - which was announced as a "Contingency Reserve Arrangement" - will also have $100bn, and will help developing nations avoid "short-term liquidity pressures, promote further Brics cooperation, strengthen the global financial safety net and complement existing international arrangements".
The creation of the Brics bank will almost surely create competition for both the World Bank and other similar regional funds.
Brics nations have criticised the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund for not giving developing nations enough voting rights.
One of the goals for the bank - whose creation has been discussed for some time - would be to increase the amount of money loaned to developing countries to help with infrastructure projects.
