Had a fruitful meeting with Chinese President Jinping: Modi
IndiaToday.in New Delhi, July 15, 2014 | UPDATED 10:13 IST
Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that he had a "very fruitful meeting" with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Brazil.
"Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President (Mr) Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues," Modi said in a tweet.
Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President Mr. Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues pic.twitter.com/dL6n0p17TO
; Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 15, 2014
Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit in Brazil and discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. In a significant development, China invited India to attend a summit of Asia and Pacific (APEC) leaders.
The two leaders discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. Photo: PTI.
The two leaders, who arrived almost at the same time in Fortaleza last evening for attending the BRICS summit, engaged shortly thereafter for what was described as "good discussions and good meeting".
The meeting was scheduled for 40 minutes but it went on for 80 as it was freewheeling discussion without any constraints.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday
For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. taaj'aatriin kh'broN aur viiddiyo ke lie aajtk.in pr aaeN.

BRICS meet South American leaders
The BRICS group of emerging powers has met with South American presidents as they justified the creation of a development bank seen as an alternative to Western-dominated global financial organisations.
The leaders of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa held closed-door talks in Brasilia with counterparts from Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela and other Latin American nations.
The gathering follows a BRICS-only summit on Tuesday in the seaside city of Fortaleza, where the five nations agreed to create the $US50 billion ($A54.1 billion) bank for infrastructure projects and a $US100 billion crisis reserve fund described as a "mini-IMF".
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff insisted that the BRICS were not seeking to distance themselves from the Washington-based International Monetary Fund.
"On the contrary, we wish to democratise it and make it as representative as possible," she told reporters following talks with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, before joining other leaders.
Emerging and developing nations have been frustrated at the slow pace of IMF reform aimed at giving them bigger voting rights within the institution.
The South Americans welcomed the creation of the emergency reserve and the New Development Bank, which will fund infrastructure projects in developing nations, a senior Brazilian official said.
"There was a lot of support for the BRICS bank and the reserve," the official said on condition of anonymity.
Rousseff has left open the possibility of using the new institutions to aid debt-ridden Argentina if it asks for it.
Chinese media hailed the creation of the BRICS bank, which will be based in Shanghai, with the official Xinhua news agency saying in an editorial that it will "usher in a long-awaited and helpful alternative to the Western-dominated institutes in global finance".
Keep reading - next article
