Had a fruitful meeting with Chinese President Jinping: Modi
IndiaToday.in New Delhi, July 15, 2014 | UPDATED 10:13 IST
Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that he had a "very fruitful meeting" with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Brazil.
"Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President (Mr) Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues," Modi said in a tweet.
Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President Mr. Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues pic.twitter.com/dL6n0p17TO
; Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 15, 2014
Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit in Brazil and discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. In a significant development, China invited India to attend a summit of Asia and Pacific (APEC) leaders.
The two leaders discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. Photo: PTI.
The two leaders, who arrived almost at the same time in Fortaleza last evening for attending the BRICS summit, engaged shortly thereafter for what was described as "good discussions and good meeting".
The meeting was scheduled for 40 minutes but it went on for 80 as it was freewheeling discussion without any constraints.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday
For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. taaj'aatriin kh'broN aur viiddiyo ke lie aajtk.in pr aaeN.

'When China and India meet, the world watches', says President Xi Jinping (Update- modi-Xi Jinping) | Business Standard News
Chinese President Xi Jinping, after meeting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday night, said that when India and China meet, the whole world watches.
The two leaders met on the sidelines of the VIth BRICS Summit in Fortaleza, Brazil. The 80-minute meeting was Prime Minister Modi's first summit-level interaction with China.
In a significant development, China has also invited India to attend an APEC meeting in November this year.
President Xi Jinping also said India should deepen its engagement with the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO).
The Prime Minister said India currently has observer status in the SCO, and was ready to accept additional responsibility, if asked to.
