Had a fruitful meeting with Chinese President Jinping: Modi
IndiaToday.in New Delhi, July 15, 2014 | UPDATED 10:13 IST
Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that he had a "very fruitful meeting" with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Brazil.
"Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President (Mr) Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues," Modi said in a tweet.
Had a very fruitful meeting with Chinese President Mr. Xi Jinping. We discussed a wide range of issues pic.twitter.com/dL6n0p17TO
; Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 15, 2014
Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit in Brazil and discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. In a significant development, China invited India to attend a summit of Asia and Pacific (APEC) leaders.
The two leaders discussed various issues including the need to resolve the boundary question in an amicable manner. Photo: PTI.
The two leaders, who arrived almost at the same time in Fortaleza last evening for attending the BRICS summit, engaged shortly thereafter for what was described as "good discussions and good meeting".
The meeting was scheduled for 40 minutes but it went on for 80 as it was freewheeling discussion without any constraints.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday
For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. taaj'aatriin kh'broN aur viiddiyo ke lie aajtk.in pr aaeN.

House of BRICS | Data Dive
The BRICS nations are holding their annual summit this week in Fortaleza, Brazil, and the biggest item on the agenda is the creation of a joint development bank. While all five BRICS countries have pledged to contribute to the $100 billion development bank as well as a reserves fund, China and India are both gunning to be the nation that hosts the institution. Indian trade minister Nirmala Sitharaman made a strong push for his country, saying, "Any city in India has its natural advantages, English-speaking, very skilled manpower, and...India is very centrally located." Still, there's no doubt that one country is the real economic powerhouse in BRICS: China.
This Reuters graphic gives some insights into the BRICS numbers.
In terms of both GDP and total reserves, the chart shows that China is the only one of the five nations that has been on a consistent upward trend since 2005, with no dips for the global recession. Its GDP is over four times that of Brazil, the BRICS country with the next-highest GDP, and it has eight times as much reserve currency as Russia, its closest competitor. This has put it in a unique position to make deals and direct trade, according to Reuters, which also reported that China's President Xi Jinping invited India to become a founding member of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
Xi also invited India to an APEC summit in November, bringing the South Asian country closer to its longtime goal of joining the trade organization.
