FORTALEZA (Brazil) -- Leaders of the BRICS emerging market nations launched a US$100 billion (S$125 billion) development bank and a currency reserve pool on Tuesday, in their first concrete step towards reshaping the Western-dominated international financial system centred on the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
BRICS' New Development Bank is scheduled to start lending in 2016 and will be open to membership by other countries. It will fund infrastructure projects in developing nations and will be based in Shanghai, with India presiding over its operations for the first five years, followed by Brazil and then Russia, leaders of the five-country group announced at a summit.
The BRICS countries -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa -- were prompted to seek coordinated action following an exodus of capital from emerging markets last year, triggered by the scaling back of US monetary stimulus.
The new bank reflects BRICS' growing influence. The group accounts for almost half the world's population and about one-fifth of global economic output.
The bank will begin with a subscribed capital of US$50 billion divided equally between its five founders, with an initial total of US$10 billion in cash put in over seven years and US$40 billion in guarantees. The capital share of the BRICS cannot drop below 55 per cent.
The BRICS countries also set up a US$100 billion currency reserves pool to help countries forestall short-term liquidity pressures. The contingency currency pool will be held in the reserves of each BRICS country and can be shifted to another member to cushion balance-of-payments difficulties.
The initiative gathered momentum after the reverse in the flows of cheap dollars that fuelled a boom in emerging markets for a decade.
China, holder of the world's largest foreign exchange reserves, will contribute the bulk of the contingency currency pool, or US$41 billion.
Brazil, India and Russia will chip in US$18 billion each and South Africa US$5 billion. If a need arises, China will be eligible to ask for half of its contribution, South Africa for double and the remaining countries for the amount they put in.
China's official Xinhua news agency, citing unidentified sources at the Chinese Finance Ministry, said the new bank would give developing countries a greater say in the international financial order, a theme President Xi Jinping struck ahead of the summit.
Pages
