Mike Wise: Four years after LeBron James's 'Decision,' here we are all over again - The Washington Post
There are people lined up in front of LeBron James's house outside of Akron at this very moment, presumably some of the same jilted fans who approved of his Cavaliers jersey being burned in effigy four years ago.
Northeast Ohio is giddy over the possibility that the man who spurned them for South Beach in 2010 could love them once more -- that the NBA's most awesome force could come back into their life and make their lottery team an NBA Finals contender again.
Mike Wise is a sports columnist for The Washington Post.
View Archive
In the waning moments of free agency, he will either go down as Cleveland's all-time cruelest tease or that rare bird able to tweak the title of Thomas Wolfe's classic novel:
Yes, 'Bron, you can go home again.
Either way, let's make this NBA Bachelor episode quick because I'm on a beach in the Outer Banks typing this, waiting for a storm to clear so I can go fishing for speckled trout. The boss owes me one.
And I think I speak for Chris Bosh and all of America right now being held hostage by "The Indecision."
Update at 4:57 p.m.: I just heard from "my guy" in Akron. LeBron is 99 percent returning to Cleveland, he said. His only trepidation is a pattern of unpredictability LeBron and his inner circle have shown in prior instances.
But then, everyone has a guy in Akron or Miami right now, telling them what they want to hear to build their case for where LeBron is heading.
The tea leaves are pointing toward Cleveland because the thought is if Heat president Pat Riley couldn't get a commitment from LeBron to re-sign with the Heat after meeting with him in Las Vegas on Wednesday , Riles is never going to close the deal.
His hunker-down news conference apparently backfired, or so LeBron's people are letting everyone know. Especially this part, when Riley said, "This stuff is hard. And you got to stay together, if you got the guts. And you don't find the first door and run out of it if you have an opportunity."
It was the ol' Riles call to duty that worked for Magic and Kareem, Patrick Ewing, Alonzo Mourning and all the warrior/basketball players he coached. He wasn't begging anyone to stay; he was challenging their manhood, their commitment, their ability to see things through, no one more than the best player in the league, who did about all he humanly could to ensure Miami got back to the finals for a fourth straight time since he signed with the Heat.
If Riley doesn't pull out some miracle, he is going to morph into Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert this time around -- the scorned one, who thought he provided the team and the environment to give LeBron every opportunity he needed to realize his professional dreams but ended up getting left at the altar anyway.
At some point, LeBron's employers should stop taking this personally and just realize they are dealing with a power broker more than a player, who is constantly making a play for his best possible option going forward.
The force of Riley's personality, which still permeates the Heat to the extent that a fine, young coach like Erik Spoelstra will never fully receive his proper due until the team president retires, is why Miami went from an afterthought of an expansion team in the early-1990s to a three-time NBA champion. He is the Heat, from the moment he took the job and made a clear distinction between merely "winning" and "being the winner."
It also may be why LeBron is said to be close to moving on. He just may need to be the Alpha male in any organization he plays for at this point in his career, and any coach, general manager or owner that has influence over his career needs to understand that some players are great enough to enter into business partnerships rather than strictly defined employer/employee relationships.
Riley is clearly more amenable to bending rules and making accommodations than in the past, but he's also remained relevant because he has been able to translate what worked the last millennium into 2014.
Of course, the longer LeBron waits, the more the entire league is on hold -- from Bosh's free agent decision to Houston's maneuverings, all the way down to the Minnesota Timberwolves, who have had multiple inquiries about Kevin Love, who doesn't want to be there.
In strict basketball sense, this is a huge gamble for LeBron. He has to believe a player of Kyrie Irving's ilk and a developing but not special roster in Cleveland will all of a sudden turn into a certain Eastern Conference champion again and seriously threaten whoever emerges from the West.
He would play for an unproven rookie coach (newly hired David Blatt) and rely on a very green general manager to bolster Cleveland, which is a much better free-agent sell with LeBron but still not a no-brainer locale like Miami, L.A. or New York.
Most of all, he would have to deliver this time.
If he doesn't, Riley won't feel like he overplayed his hand. He will feel like karma caught up to King James.
Personally, I thought he had all he wanted in Miami, and if Riles could just tweak the roster and acquire genuine all-around players rather than specialists, the Heat would have at least three more title runs left.
But if he or his people felt slighted by the man in charge, well, divas do what divas do when they don't get their way; they seek refuge in people who give them their way.
Either way, let's get this over. Now. It's not just that the storm has passed here or that ESPN's Josina Anderson probably does not want to stay up all night in front of Cleveland's Quicken Loans Arena waiting for her next live hit.
The longer this LeBron-a-thon goes, the worse it looks for a player who owes no team or town anything other than a phone call before he tells the nation he is leaving his current home. If he learned anything from 2010, it's that breakups are less painful when everyone involved knows exactly where they stand.
Somebody is going to be crestfallen. Some team will not get the final rose. The least he could do is let the runner-up know before we do.

LeBron James' website is the HTML apocalypse.
Just a kid from Akron, Ohio, with the world's worst website.
Screenshot from lebronjames.com.
For the last couple of days, NBA reporter Chris Sheridan has insisted on two things: LeBron James will sign with the Cleveland Cavaliers, and he will make that announcement on his website, lebronjames.com. If Sheridan is correct, a lot of people are going to be very disappointed. That's because James' website is a browser-melting abomination.
As of Thursday afternoon, the LeBron James Internet experience begins with a brief animation that settles on the still image you see at the top of this article.
In that animation, a cartoon skyline slowly rises to the heavens, and it's followed by a series of four photos that swoop in from the right margin: LeBron talking on the phone while golfing, LeBron in an Akron baseball cap, LeBron in workout gear, and LeBron grinning toothily while holding a championship trophy and a Finals MVP award.* The note of humility at the top--"Just a Kid from Akron, Ohio"--is nicely offset by the self-congratulatory labels at the bottom: "The Man," "The Philanthropist," The Businessman," "The Athlete." This is the website of an NBA superstar. It is nothing out of the ordinary.
Click to learn more about "The Athlete" and ... that same animation loads again. The cartoon skyline again rises into the firmament. He's still just a kid from Akron, Ohio. He's still on the golf course, still conversing with the same degree of urgency, still wearing dark sunglasses and an aggressively pink shirt.
This is the same image that's at the top of this article page. This manner of needless repetition is a crucial component of the lebronjames.com user experience.
Screenshot from lebronjames.com.
Unless you're browsing lebronjames.com on a monitor that's as tall as LeBron James, it's entirely unclear how you're supposed to move beyond this screen and get to learning anything beyond the fact that LeBron is just a kid from Akron, Ohio. To read about "The Athlete," it turns out, you need to scroll down, at which point you'll see a tessellation of blog-post-promoting hexagons.
These hexagons convey no information at first glance. There is no hierarchy or chronology, and no text that allows you to distinguish between a photo of LeBron and another photo of LeBron. Mouse over the hexagons, and you'll discover that these are stories about James' 2014 playoff run, though the hexagons mysteriously stop after Game 3 of the NBA Finals. (To learn who ended up winning the series, you can consult Wikipedia.)
Do you like my hexagons?
Screenshot from lebronjames.com.
Click on the "Heat Bounce Back | Win Game 2" hexagon (illustrated by a photo of LeBron boxing shirtless) and ... this cartoon skyline will not leave you the hell alone. Golfing. Pink shirt. Akron. Trophies. Scroll past all that garbage and you'll get a short game story that notes that LeBron played with "a 'sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me' mentality." The page is topped by an inspirational tweet from Powerade.
The best way to evaluate a website or any other product is to consider whether its design serves its purpose. There are a bunch of reasons why LeBron James might want a website: to serve as a clearinghouse of authorized biographical details, to promote his foundation, to shill for his sponsors, and to sell some gear.
To look at lebronjames.com, you'd imagine that its proprietor was an animator who specialized in two-dimensional skylines. In its current form, this site is useless as both an information source and as a promotional tool. I will admit to being less likely to purchase Powerade than I was five minutes ago.
Hey, look, it's that same image again, for absolutely no reason.
Screenshot from lebronjames.com.
If you have the patience to scroll past the gaudily pointless bells and whistles, you'll be struck by the site's inattention to detail. The section on "The Athlete" includes items about the 2014 playoffs, but not LeBron's two NBA titles and four MVP awards. That section also features a large, distracting background image that depicts some sort of journey from Detroit to Akron, a woman named Nicole Curtis, and the phrase "Rehab Addict." This image is not clickable, nor is it explained in any way. If you happen to click a small, unreadable icon on the bottom left of the screen, though, you'll find out that Curtis is a television host from Detroit who's working with LeBron to do a home renovation in West Akron. Not sure if that was worth another skyline animation, but there you go.
It doesn't really matter that lebronjames.com is ugly and useless. Nobody will think less of LeBron because his website consists of a series of inscrutable hexagons, and there are plenty of other places to read about LeBron James and to buy his merchandise.
If there is a larger lesson here--aside from the fact that you'll want to burn an animated skyline to the ground if you're forced to watch it load a dozen times--it's that there's often an inverse relationship between what you spend on a website and how useful it is to visitors.
Though I haven't managed to track down any invoices, I'd imagine that LeBron paid a good amount of cash for this HTML apocalypse. I'm reminded of my former colleague Farhad Manjoo's polemic against restaurant websites, which tend to obscure the menu and street address beneath a seven-layer dip of superfluous Flash slideshows. As Manjoo notes, "designers make more money to create a complicated, multipage Flash site than one that tells you everything you want to know on one page."
Top Comment
People in Slate houses shouldn't throw stones. More...
-Sparks
Join In
LeBron's site doesn't tell you anything you want to know, and it takes a lot more than one page to do it. Compare to Kobe Bryant's site and Dwyane Wade's, which look needlessly expensive but are at least navigable. And then there's kevindurant.com, which is nothing more than a single-page invitation to apply for grants from his foundation. So simple. So humble. Finally, an Internet role model that our children can believe in.
*Correction, July 10, 2014: This post originally misstated that LeBron James is holding two championship trophies. He's holding a championship trophy and a Finals MVP award.
