Pride parade marches down Fifth Ave. 45 years after Stonewall riots, as Gov. Cuomo pledges to end AIDS in N.Y. - NY Daily News
Forty-five years after the Stonewall Inn riots ignited a national fight for gay rights, a rainbow regalia flooded Fifth Ave. on Sunday to honor the milestone and proudly show how far the movement has come.
The colorful pageantry ran from midtown Manhattan to just past The Stonewall Inn in the West Village. In 1969, violent fights between raiding cops and the customers of the bar became a catalyst for the gay rights movement.
Robin Platzer/Twin Images/Zuma Press Chiara de Blasio wears a sequin bikini top in the parade, with Mayor de Blasio and First Lady Chirlane McCray behind her.
Mayor de Blasio, who wore a rainbow tie, purple shirt and sneakers, gleefully stopped along the 32-block route to high-five revelers.
He was joined by his wife, Chirlane McCray, who had come out as a lesbian in the 1970s before meeting de Blasio, and their daughter, Chiara, who wore a revealing sequin black bikini top. His son, Dante, did not attend.
Before the march, Gov. Cuomo announced an ambitious plan to become the first state in the nation to end the three-decade HIV crisis by 2020.
State officials plan to more aggressively test and treat HIV-positive patients to reduce the numbers of those who eventually contract and die of AIDS.
"We can do it," Cuomo told reporters Sunday. "We've done a lot of work, we've made a lot of progress, but we're not going to be happy until we end the epidemic, and we believe we can, and that should be the goal."
Laverne Cox, from the Netflix series "Orange is the New Black," and actor Jonathan Groff, from HBO's "Looking," led off the march as the grand marshals of the 45th annual celebration.
The parade also marked the third anniversary since same-sex marriage was legalized in New York.
"I'm here representing that lifestyle, to help people understand we're just like them," said Yvonne Valles, 42, from Bayonne, N.J.
Corinne Reilly-Ferretto, 19, added, "We're showing up to support because you should be able to live how you want to live."
