Hobby Lobby part of Rick Santorum film - Kendall Breitman - POLITICO.com
One day has passed since the Supreme Court ruled on Burwell v. Hobby Lobby, but soon enough the case will be coming to a theater near you.
Former presidential candidate Rick Santorum, who is also CEO of EchoLight Studios, plans to release this fall "One Generation Away: The Erosion of Religious Liberty," based in part on the case that the Supreme Court ruled on Monday. While the film has been in the works for several months before the Hobby Lobby ruling, the case is one of seven highlighted in the "docudrama" on religious freedom battles in the Supreme Court, according to Deadline Hollywood.
Continue Reading
EchoLight Studios, according to its website, "produces and distributes high-quality movies for families of faith."
(Also on POLITICO: Hobby Lobby decision: 5 takeaways)
The documentary's title is derived from a quotation by President Ronald Reagan: "Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction." According to the website of EchoLight Cinema, the distribution arm of Echolight Studios that partners with churches to screen EchoLight films, the film's core message is "religious liberty is never more than One Generation Away from extinction."
"One Generation Away" makes the argument that religious freedom is in jeopardy in the United States, using as an example the Hobby Lobby case, in which the Supreme Court ruled that for-profit companies can opt out of providing employees and their families with birth control for religious reasons, as well as examples from the U.S. military, high school sports, college campuses and wedding services.
The film will feature politicians such as Santorum and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee and will be co-produced by Abington Ridge Films, American Family Studios and Triple Horse Studios.
(Also on POLITICO: The Supreme Court did not just kill public sector unions)
EchoLight Studios did not immediately respond to request for comment.
"One Generation Away" will premiere Sept. 1 in select churches before opening in theaters.
