Gulf Daily News " World News " Philippines in damage control mode
MANILA: The Philippines set to work clearing debris, reconnecting power and rebuilding flattened houses yesterday after a typhoon swept across the country killing 38 people, with at least eight missing.
Typhoon Rammasun, the strongest storm to hit the Philippines this year, was heading northwest towards China after cutting a path across the main island of Luzon, shutting down the capital and knocking down trees and power lines, causing widespread blackouts.
The storm destroyed about 7,000 houses and damaged 19,000, the executive director of the National Disaster Agency, Alexander Pama, said. More than 530,000 people had taken refuge in evacuation centres, according to official figures.
Pama put the damage to crops, mostly rice and corn, from the Bicol region, southeast of Manila and the first to be hit by the storm, at around 668 million pesos ($15m).
Most schools remained closed in the capital and southern Luzon, the most densely populated part of the country with about 17m people. Power had been restored to just over half of the Luzon grid, a transmission agency official said.
Manila Electric Co said a third of its 1.88m customers were without power.
Disaster officials were assessing damage, but the coconut-growing Quezon province south of Manila appears to have borne the brunt of Rammasun, which intensified into a category 3 typhoon as it crossed the country.
The cyclone is expected to make landfall in China around noon today somewhere between the island of Hainan and the southern province of Guangdong, the Hainan government said.
The ministry of civil affairs has already put authorities on alert across a swathe of southern and southwestern China to deal with expected damage, especially as heavy rains and landslides have killed at least 45 people in southern China and left 21 others missing over the past week. The ministry said nearly 9,300 houses had collapsed and 63,000 houses had been damaged. The rains had also affected 384,000 hectares of crops and caused direct economic losses of $840m.
