Observatory will raise typhoon signal No 3 as Rammasun intensifies closer to Hong Kong | South China Morning Post
The Observatory will raise typhoon signal No 3 in the next few hours as Typhoon Rammasun edges closer to Hong Kong, bringing with it squally showers and high winds.
A statement on the Observatory website warned that winds would increase throughout the day and that the strong wind signal would be raised this afternoon.
"At 2pm, Typhoon Rammasun was estimated to be about 630km south of Hong Kong (near 16.7 degrees north 115.1 degrees east)," the Observatory said.
"It is forecast to intensify and move northwest at about 22km/h in the general direction of western Guangdong and Hainan.
"Rammasun showed signs of intensification in the past few hours. As Rammasun edges closer to the south China coast, local winds are expected to continue strengthening. There will be squally showers and swells. The Observatory will issue the strong wind signal, No. 3 in the next few hours.
Hong Kong awoke this morning to a No 1 signal issued by the Observatory as wet and windy weather on the fringes of the typhoon brought some respite to days of stiflingly hot weather that has seen the city swelter.
The Observatory issued the lowest typhoon warning signal at 11.40pm last night as the storm moved to within 800 kilometres of the city.
With Rammasun edging closer to the South China coast, the Observatory predicted wind and rain for Hong Kong for the coming days.
Sea swells are also expected. People are advised to stay away from the shoreline and not to engage in water sports.
Watch: Typhoon shuts down Philippine capital
Typhoon Rammasun killed at least 11 people as it passed across the Philippines and hit the capital Manila on Wednesday, prompting the evacuation of more than 370,000 people, shutting financial markets, offices and schools.
The eye of the typhoon, the strongest storm to hit the country this year, passed to the south of Manila on Wednesday after cutting a path across the northern island of Luzon.
Cathay Pacific said it had cancelled four flights from Manila to Hong Kong on Wednesday and a further two from Hong Kong to Manila. The airline advised passengers to check their flight status on its website before departing for the airport.
Last week, Typhoon Neoguri battered Okinawa in Japan before moving to the Japanese mainland and forcing the evacuation of tens of thousands.
At least seven people were reported to have been killed as mudslides and floods hit houses.
While Hong Kong has avoided any typhoons so far this year, the city has sweltered, with the hottest June since records began in 1884.
The monthly average was 29 degrees Celsius - 1.1 degrees above normal for June.
Johnny Tam, Danny Mok, Reuters
