Typhoon Rammasun's death toll rises to almost 60 | GulfNews.com
Manila: The death toll of Typhoon Rammasun (locally known as Glenda) rose to almost 60. It also injured hundreds, affected more than one million, and left half a million homeless in all affected areas in central Philippines, southern and northern Luzon, including Metro Manila all of which were paralyzed by power outages two days after the typhoon had exited to the South China Sea early Thursday, officials and other sources told Gulf News.
Fifty-seven people, including three missing were killed by fallen trees, collapsed buildings and flying debris when Typhoon Rammasun blighted all affected areas from Tuesday to Thursday. Figures might rise further after clearing operation ends on Saturday, Undersecretary Alexander Pama, also executive director of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) told Gulf News.
Of the more than one million affected residents, 500,000 lost their homes and were sheltered in 1,200 evacuation centres, said Pama, adding that 26,000 houses were totally and partially damaged.
Damaged infrastructure and agricultural products reached a total of P5.4 billion (Dh 375 million). Damaged rice, corn, high valued cash crops, livestock, and agricultural facilities in Central Luzon, Mimaropa, Bicol and Cordillera Administrative Region was assessed at P 4.529 billion and wrecked infrastructure in Central Luzon, Bicol, Eastern Visayas and National Capital Region was estimated at P892 million, said Pama.
Aqua-fisheries operations Laguna de Bay and Taal in southern Luzon, as well as those in Pampanga and Bataan provinces in northern Luzon were affected by Typhoon Rammasun, Pama added.
Most schools resumed classes in Metro Manila and southern Luzon on Friday. Public and private offices were opened earlier in all affected areas, on Thursday.
However, 35 per cent of all affected areas in Metro Manila and surrounding suburban areas remained without power, affecting schools, offices, and shopping centres that started operating there. In central Philippines, southern and northern Luzon, power outages were more frequent and other blighted areas remained 80 percent without water and power.
Residents were angered when Meralco renewed its promise that electricity would be restored 100 percent in all affected areas by Saturday.
Most roads and bridges in affected areas remained "half-clogged" by fallen trees and other typhoon debris. Residents started helping out because government workers were overwhelmed by the extent of the damage left by Typhoon Rammasun.
"Policemen were also involved in relief and rehabilitation operations, like cleanup of roads to make these passable, securing areas that need to be secured like evacuation centres," explained Chief Supt. Reuben Theodore Sindac, spokesman for the Philippine National Police.
It was the first powerful typhoon that landed in the Philippines at the start of the rainy season.
Every year, about 20 storms savage the Philippines. It is the southernmost door where all storms pass through when they enter northward to all other Southeast Asian countries in the region.

17 July 2014 Last updated at 07:01
Typhoon kills 38 in Philippines, millions without power
The typhoon ripped off tin roofs and felled trees as it swept through provinces south of the Philippines
A powerful storm that battered the central Philippines has killed 38 people and left millions without power.
Ten more people were injured by Typhoon Rammasun and another eight remain missing, according to authorities.
The typhoon swept through the country on Tuesday night before making a shift away from Manila on Wednesday.
More than 530,000 people took refuge in evacuation centres. Many of those who died were killed while outdoors by falling trees and flying debris.
Millions living in provinces southeast of the capital still have no power, according to news agencies.
Officials have managed to restore power to only half of Luzon, which has 17 million people.
Much of the eastern region of Bicol, which was hit first by the storm and is home to five million, is also without electricity.
Manila was hit by widespread blackouts as well, but most of the city's power has since been restored.
Officials said more than one million people were affected by the storm. Most of them were from Bicol.
The storm is now heading westwards towards China's Hainan island. The Tropical Storm Risk website is predicting it will gain in strength to Category 2 - one grade below its strength in the Philippines - within 24 hours.
Officials estimate the typhoon caused about $1 million (PS580,000) in damage to infrastructure
Residents in the coastal town of Rosario searched for salvageable items amid debris left by the typhoon
The country's stock exchange and government offices reopened on Thursday but many schools remained closed because of power shortages.
Alexander Pama, the executive director of the National Disaster Agency, told agencies that the storm destroyed about 7,000 houses and damaged another 19,000.
About $1m (PS580,000) in infrastructure was destroyed and at least $14m in crops and livestock in Bicol were lost, he said.
At its peak, Rammasun - which is a Thai word for "thunder god" - brought winds of up to 150km per hour.
The Philippines is hit by around 20 major storms a year. Typhoon Rammasun was the first to make landfall this year after the rainy season began in June.
Typhoon Haiyan, which devastated the country last year, killed more than 6,000 people and was said to be one of the worst storms on record.
