Typhoon Rammasun's death toll rises to almost 60 | GulfNews.com
Manila: The death toll of Typhoon Rammasun (locally known as Glenda) rose to almost 60. It also injured hundreds, affected more than one million, and left half a million homeless in all affected areas in central Philippines, southern and northern Luzon, including Metro Manila all of which were paralyzed by power outages two days after the typhoon had exited to the South China Sea early Thursday, officials and other sources told Gulf News.
Fifty-seven people, including three missing were killed by fallen trees, collapsed buildings and flying debris when Typhoon Rammasun blighted all affected areas from Tuesday to Thursday. Figures might rise further after clearing operation ends on Saturday, Undersecretary Alexander Pama, also executive director of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) told Gulf News.
Of the more than one million affected residents, 500,000 lost their homes and were sheltered in 1,200 evacuation centres, said Pama, adding that 26,000 houses were totally and partially damaged.
Damaged infrastructure and agricultural products reached a total of P5.4 billion (Dh 375 million). Damaged rice, corn, high valued cash crops, livestock, and agricultural facilities in Central Luzon, Mimaropa, Bicol and Cordillera Administrative Region was assessed at P 4.529 billion and wrecked infrastructure in Central Luzon, Bicol, Eastern Visayas and National Capital Region was estimated at P892 million, said Pama.
Aqua-fisheries operations Laguna de Bay and Taal in southern Luzon, as well as those in Pampanga and Bataan provinces in northern Luzon were affected by Typhoon Rammasun, Pama added.
Most schools resumed classes in Metro Manila and southern Luzon on Friday. Public and private offices were opened earlier in all affected areas, on Thursday.
However, 35 per cent of all affected areas in Metro Manila and surrounding suburban areas remained without power, affecting schools, offices, and shopping centres that started operating there. In central Philippines, southern and northern Luzon, power outages were more frequent and other blighted areas remained 80 percent without water and power.
Residents were angered when Meralco renewed its promise that electricity would be restored 100 percent in all affected areas by Saturday.
Most roads and bridges in affected areas remained "half-clogged" by fallen trees and other typhoon debris. Residents started helping out because government workers were overwhelmed by the extent of the damage left by Typhoon Rammasun.
"Policemen were also involved in relief and rehabilitation operations, like cleanup of roads to make these passable, securing areas that need to be secured like evacuation centres," explained Chief Supt. Reuben Theodore Sindac, spokesman for the Philippine National Police.
It was the first powerful typhoon that landed in the Philippines at the start of the rainy season.
Every year, about 20 storms savage the Philippines. It is the southernmost door where all storms pass through when they enter northward to all other Southeast Asian countries in the region.

... causes power outages in Visayas
SEVERAL areas in Visayas have experienced power interruption amid the passage of tropical storm Glenda (international name: Rammasun), which entered the Philippine area of responsibility on Sunday.
The National Grid Corporation of the Philippines (NGCP) reported at least four transmission lines affected by the storm.
In Leyte, the Babatngon-Abucay 69-kilovolt (kV) line was still out as of July 15, which led to the loss of power supply in parts of Leyte Electric Cooperative, Inc.'s franchise area -- including the city of Tacloban.
The entire Eastern Samar was also experiencing power outage with the damage on the Paranas-Taft-Quinapondan 69-kV line.
Portions of Samar and Northern Samar were also left with no power after the outage of the Calbayog-Catbalogan 69-kV line and Calbayog-Catarman-Allen 69-kV line.
NGCP said it has already mobilized its line crews and is currently conducting ground partials to inspect and assess the impact of the storm to its operations and facilities, particularly in Samar and Leyte.
"Please note that loss of power may be caused by affected transmission facilities of NGCP or distribution facilities of local distribution utilities or electric cooperatives," NGCP said.
"Specific cities and municipalities affected by the power interruptions are determined by concerned Distribution Utilities, unless the outage affects the entire franchise area," it added.
The grid operator also noted that necessary preparations have been implemented to minimize the impact of the storm on its operations and facilities.
"These include ensuring the availability of hardware materials and supplies necessary for the repair of damages to facilities, as well as the positioning of line crews in strategic areas, to facilitate immediate restoration work," the company said.
NGCP is a private firm that operates, maintains and develops the country's transmission network since 2009.
It is in charge of the transmission of high-voltage electricity through power superhighways that involve an interconnected system of transmission lines, towers, substations, and related facilities.
"If (transmission) lines go down in Samar and Leyte, then we will feel it throughout the Visayas (grid), even in Cebu," said Jose Rey Maleza, Energy Industry Management Division supervisor of the Energy Department in the Visayas.
The Visayas grid is low on reserves as some generating units have been shut down for maintenance. Based on the National Grid Corp. of the Philippines website, the Visayas grid had reserves of only 70 megawatts Tuesday, as demand was projected to peak at 1,375 MW while capacity was only 1,445 MW.
One of the three 82-MW units of the Cebu Energy Development Corp. (CEDC) in Toledo City, Cebu, has been on maintenance shutdown since July 12.
Mae Melchor-Villanueva, CEDC corporate communications officer, told BusinessWorld that the plant is scheduled to be back online by Thursday morning.
One of the two 100-MW generating units of Korean Electric Power Corp. (KEPCO) in Naga City, Cebu, was also shut down on Monday for maintenance. It is scheduled to be operational by July 24.
Mr. Maleza said that should more plants bog down because of inclement weather or other factors, the Visayas might experience rotational outages.
"For now, we are coping because despite having low generation capacity, the current amount of power we are generating can meet the demand, especially at peak hours," said Mr. Maleza.
"In the event that demand outstrips supply, we still have back-ups as Luzon is currently supplying energy to the Visayas grid," he added.
In a related development, the country's largest power distributor Manila Electric Co. (Meralco) said it is exerting all efforts to prepare its systems and personnel so that it could respond immediately to power outages that may result from the storm.
"As a 24-hour service company, we are committed to respond to these types of emergency. Our crews are on standby to attend to any trouble that may affect our facilities in areas that might be hit by the typhoon," said Joe R. Zaldarriaga, Meralco Spokesperson and Public Information Office Head.
Mr. Zaldarriaga said Meralco has put in place necessary measures to mitigate the possible impact of the typhoon.
The company, for instance, has issued advisories on the appropriate precautionary measures to take before a typhoon.
"Meralco, for instance, has consistently requested billboard owners and operators to temporarily roll their billboards up to prevent these structures from being toppled by the strong winds," Mr. Zaldarriaga said.
Billboards that fall into electrical facilities during typhoons are among the main reasons for power outages.
Mr. Zaldarriaga also urged the public to keep all channels of communication open and ready. Customers may tune in to the different public-service radio stations should power interruptions occur. -- Claire-Ann Marie C. Feliciano, John Paolo G. Bago
