Typhoon Rammasun's death toll rises to almost 60 | GulfNews.com
Manila: The death toll of Typhoon Rammasun (locally known as Glenda) rose to almost 60. It also injured hundreds, affected more than one million, and left half a million homeless in all affected areas in central Philippines, southern and northern Luzon, including Metro Manila all of which were paralyzed by power outages two days after the typhoon had exited to the South China Sea early Thursday, officials and other sources told Gulf News.
Fifty-seven people, including three missing were killed by fallen trees, collapsed buildings and flying debris when Typhoon Rammasun blighted all affected areas from Tuesday to Thursday. Figures might rise further after clearing operation ends on Saturday, Undersecretary Alexander Pama, also executive director of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) told Gulf News.
Of the more than one million affected residents, 500,000 lost their homes and were sheltered in 1,200 evacuation centres, said Pama, adding that 26,000 houses were totally and partially damaged.
Damaged infrastructure and agricultural products reached a total of P5.4 billion (Dh 375 million). Damaged rice, corn, high valued cash crops, livestock, and agricultural facilities in Central Luzon, Mimaropa, Bicol and Cordillera Administrative Region was assessed at P 4.529 billion and wrecked infrastructure in Central Luzon, Bicol, Eastern Visayas and National Capital Region was estimated at P892 million, said Pama.
Aqua-fisheries operations Laguna de Bay and Taal in southern Luzon, as well as those in Pampanga and Bataan provinces in northern Luzon were affected by Typhoon Rammasun, Pama added.
Most schools resumed classes in Metro Manila and southern Luzon on Friday. Public and private offices were opened earlier in all affected areas, on Thursday.
However, 35 per cent of all affected areas in Metro Manila and surrounding suburban areas remained without power, affecting schools, offices, and shopping centres that started operating there. In central Philippines, southern and northern Luzon, power outages were more frequent and other blighted areas remained 80 percent without water and power.
Residents were angered when Meralco renewed its promise that electricity would be restored 100 percent in all affected areas by Saturday.
Most roads and bridges in affected areas remained "half-clogged" by fallen trees and other typhoon debris. Residents started helping out because government workers were overwhelmed by the extent of the damage left by Typhoon Rammasun.
"Policemen were also involved in relief and rehabilitation operations, like cleanup of roads to make these passable, securing areas that need to be secured like evacuation centres," explained Chief Supt. Reuben Theodore Sindac, spokesman for the Philippine National Police.
It was the first powerful typhoon that landed in the Philippines at the start of the rainy season.
Every year, about 20 storms savage the Philippines. It is the southernmost door where all storms pass through when they enter northward to all other Southeast Asian countries in the region.

LPA north of Mindanao now a tropical depression
-A A +A
Thursday, July 17, 2014
MANILA -- The low pressure area (LPA) spotted Thursday outside the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) intensified into a tropical depression and is expected to enter the country on Saturday, the state weather bureau said.
In a bulletin, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (Pagasa) said the tropical depression was located at 990 kilometers east of Northern Mindanao with maximum sustained winds of 45 kilometers per hour.
Pagasa weather forecaster Chris Perez said the tropical depression has a high chance of developing into a tropical storm but it will not directly affect the country.
Satellite image courtesy of Pagasa
Perez said the new weather system will be locally named "Henry" once it enters the Philippine sea.
Perez said the tropical depression has less possibility of making a landfall in any part of the country but several parts of the country such as in Metro Manila, La Union, Benguet, Pangasinan, Bataan, Zambales, Palawan and Mindoro will still experience occasional rain shower due to the southwest monsoon.
"The rest of the country will be partly cloudy to cloudy skies with isolated rainshowers and thunderstorms," Pagasa said.
Pagasa said moderate to strong winds blowing from the southwest to south will prevail over Luzon.
"Fishing boats and other small seacrafts are advised not to venture out into the sea while larger sea vessels are alerted against big waves," the weather bureau said. (Sunnex)
DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.
Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
