Typhoon Rammasun's death toll rises to almost 60 | GulfNews.com
Manila: The death toll of Typhoon Rammasun (locally known as Glenda) rose to almost 60. It also injured hundreds, affected more than one million, and left half a million homeless in all affected areas in central Philippines, southern and northern Luzon, including Metro Manila all of which were paralyzed by power outages two days after the typhoon had exited to the South China Sea early Thursday, officials and other sources told Gulf News.
Fifty-seven people, including three missing were killed by fallen trees, collapsed buildings and flying debris when Typhoon Rammasun blighted all affected areas from Tuesday to Thursday. Figures might rise further after clearing operation ends on Saturday, Undersecretary Alexander Pama, also executive director of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) told Gulf News.
Of the more than one million affected residents, 500,000 lost their homes and were sheltered in 1,200 evacuation centres, said Pama, adding that 26,000 houses were totally and partially damaged.
Damaged infrastructure and agricultural products reached a total of P5.4 billion (Dh 375 million). Damaged rice, corn, high valued cash crops, livestock, and agricultural facilities in Central Luzon, Mimaropa, Bicol and Cordillera Administrative Region was assessed at P 4.529 billion and wrecked infrastructure in Central Luzon, Bicol, Eastern Visayas and National Capital Region was estimated at P892 million, said Pama.
Aqua-fisheries operations Laguna de Bay and Taal in southern Luzon, as well as those in Pampanga and Bataan provinces in northern Luzon were affected by Typhoon Rammasun, Pama added.
Most schools resumed classes in Metro Manila and southern Luzon on Friday. Public and private offices were opened earlier in all affected areas, on Thursday.
However, 35 per cent of all affected areas in Metro Manila and surrounding suburban areas remained without power, affecting schools, offices, and shopping centres that started operating there. In central Philippines, southern and northern Luzon, power outages were more frequent and other blighted areas remained 80 percent without water and power.
Residents were angered when Meralco renewed its promise that electricity would be restored 100 percent in all affected areas by Saturday.
Most roads and bridges in affected areas remained "half-clogged" by fallen trees and other typhoon debris. Residents started helping out because government workers were overwhelmed by the extent of the damage left by Typhoon Rammasun.
"Policemen were also involved in relief and rehabilitation operations, like cleanup of roads to make these passable, securing areas that need to be secured like evacuation centres," explained Chief Supt. Reuben Theodore Sindac, spokesman for the Philippine National Police.
It was the first powerful typhoon that landed in the Philippines at the start of the rainy season.
Every year, about 20 storms savage the Philippines. It is the southernmost door where all storms pass through when they enter northward to all other Southeast Asian countries in the region.

'Glenda' exits but brewing cyclone may enter Phl within 24 hours | Headlines, News, The Philippine Star | philstar.com
MANILA, Philippines -- Typhoon "Glenda" is now out of the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) but a potential tropical cyclone has moved closer to the country, the state weather bureau said Thursday.
The Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) said "Glenda" was located at 480 kilometers west of Dagupan City at 8 a.m.
The weather bureau, however, also said that the low pressure area (LPA) hovering over the Pacific Ocean is now at 940 kilometers east of northern Mindanao.
In an interview with ANC, PAGASA weather Aldczar Aurelio said the LPA is expected to enter PAR within 24 hours.
The Joint Typhoon Watch Center (JTWC) of the US Department of Defense also said in an update that the formation of a significant tropical cyclone is possible.
It said that the sea surface temperatures in the area of the weather system are conducive for the development of a cyclone.
"The potential for the development of a significant tropical cyclone within the next 24 hours is high," the Hawaii-based weather bureau said.
The JTWC said winds in the area of the brewing cyclone are estimated at 28 kilometers per hour (kph) to 37 kph.
The new weather system is moving westward at 4 kph, the agency added.
Meantime, PAGASA said Metro Manila, Central Luzon, CALABARZON and the Provinces of Mindoro, Palawan, La Union, Benguet and Pangasinan will have occasional rains.
The rest of the country will be partly cloudy to cloudy skies with isolated rainshowers and thunderstorms.
Moderate to strong winds blowing from the southwest to southeast will prevail over Luzon and coming from the southwest will prevail over the rest of the country with moderate to rough seas.
