Leaving Las Vegas: LeBron reportedly flying back to Miami -- with Dwyane Wade | FOX Sports on MSN
Updated JUL 11, 2014 12:53a ET
LeBron James left his Nike-sponsored basketball camp in Las Vegas with his sights set on the World Cup final in Brazil.
But James will first make a quick pit-stop in Miami, according to multiple reports.
James is scheduled to stay in Miami on Friday, then depart for Brazil for the World Cup Final on Saturday, the reports indicated.According to Yahoo Sports columnist and FOX Sports 1 insider Adrian Wojnarowski, the Cleveland Cavaliers and Miami Heat expect to be notified of James' free-agent decision before he departs for Brazil.
Wojnarowski also reported that Heat teammate Dwyane Wade will be on the flight from Las Vegas to Miami with James.
James opted out of his contract with the Heat on June 24. It is believed he will either sign with the Cavs or the Heat, the only two NBA teams for which he has played.
The four-time league MVP visited with Heat president Pat Riley for more than an hour on Wednesday in Las Vegas. Neither has spoken publicly since the meeting.
In fact, James has not spoken publicly since opting out of this contract -- other than to say "no complaints," when asked by The Associated Press how he was enjoying free agency.
James attended both sessions of his camp on Wednesday, but only two of the three sessions on Thursday, according to a report from FOX Sports Ohio's Zac Jackson. He arrived at the afternoon session with Wade, but the two left separately.
James spent the first seven years of his career with the Cavs, who selected the Akron, Ohio, product with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2003 NBA Draft. He then left for the Heat in free agency in 2010, joining friends and fellow stars Wade and Chris Bosh.
The Heat have reached the Finals four straight seasons, winning two championships in that span. Wade and Bosh opted out of their contracts shortly after James.
All three players remain unsigned, and sources have told FOX Sports Ohio that Bosh is weighing an offer from the Houston Rockets that would pay him $88 million over four years.
The World Cup final between Germany and Argentina is scheduled for Sunday.
