Church of England allows female bishops - World News | IOL News | IOL.co.za
Reuters
Two members of the clergy leave the Church of England's Synod during a lunch break in the session which later approved the consecration of women bishops, in York. Picture: Nigel Roddis
London -
The Church of England ended one of its longest and most divisive disputes on Monday with an overwhelming vote in favour of allowing women to become bishops.
The church's national assembly, known as the General Synod, voted for the historic measure, reaching the required two-thirds majority in each of its three different houses. In total, 351 members of the three houses approved of the move. Only 72 voted against and 10 abstained.
Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby said the long-awaited change marks the completion of a process that started more than 20 years ago with the ordination of women as priests. He called for tolerance and love for those traditionalists who disagree with the decision.
"As delighted as I am for the outcome of this vote, I am also mindful of whose within the church for whom the result will be difficult and a cause of sorrow," he said in a statement.
British Prime Minister David Cameron called it a "great day for the Church and for equality".
Opponents argued that allowing women into such a senior position in the church goes against the Bible. Others warned that the church should not be guided by secular ethics.
Lay member Lorna Ashworth, who did not support the move, said the church has entered new territory. "This is something we have to work out as we go along," she said.
The Church of England represents diverse religious groups from conservative evangelicals to supporters of gay marriage. Major changes can take years, even decades to bring about.
Two years ago similar legislation narrowly failed to reach the two-thirds majority with lay members, despite the approval from bishops and clergy.
After that vote failed, the church worked to build trust with its lay members, who lagged behind church leaders on the question of female bishops, and make the legislation more acceptable to opponents.
At the same time the church came under increasing pressure from the outside to reform in favour of women. Some of those who changed their vote this time around said they did not want to block changes the majority was happy with.
Monday's vote marks the latest advance of women in the church hierarchy.
The General Synod ruled in 1975 there was no fundamental objection to women becoming priests, but it took nearly two decades for the first women to be ordained.
Things are likely to move faster for aspiring female bishops. Welby told the BBC he expects the first woman bishop in the Church of England by next year.
He was less sure when asked if there will be a female Archbishop of Canterbury in his lifetime: "I've no idea. I'd be delighted if I did."
The Church of England was established by King Henry VIII who appointed himself as its head in 1534. The government still formally appoints the Archbishop of Canterbury, the spiritual leader of the church, and Queen Elizabeth II serves as its supreme governor.
Parliament maintains a role in church affairs, and will be called upon to ratify the female bishop legislation. About 26 bishops are allocated seats in the House of Lords.
The Church of England is part of the global Anglican Communion with 77 million members in more than 160 countries. The Episcopal Church in the Unites States was the first member to have a woman bishop and is now led by a woman. - Sapa-AP
Related Stories

The Church of England has found unity on its own terms - Telegraph
More than two decades have passed since the Church of England ordained its first women priests, amid howls of protest and acrimony. But the mood was a very different one yesterday when - after almost five hours of reasoned debate - the General Synod finally voted to raise women to the episcopate. In many ways, this monumental decision came as a relief, and the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Most Rev Justin Welby, deserves praise for leading his flock out of a quagmire of debate that at times looked as though it might swallow them up. Without his oversight during the careful process of reconciliation among Anglicans that began last year, it is doubtful that yesterday's vote would have been received so warmly.
It is not for us to comment on the theology behind the decision. We can only reflect on the fact that a large majority of Anglicans seemed to support the idea of women bishops - 43 of 44 dioceses, to be precise (and the last was unable to complete the consultation in time). In part, this is surely due to the staggering success of women priests. Women now constitute around a third of the clergy; and when faced with this day-to-day reality, even the most vociferous opposition has often melted away.
Nevertheless, there will have to be a good deal of magnanimity from those in the Church who voted for women bishops - and they know this better than any outsider. As the Archbishop of York, Dr John Sentamu, pointed out yesterday, the result should be met with "restraint and sensitivity". Opponents of the move, mostly evangelicals and Anglo-Catholics, are not being difficult for the sake of it, but because of sincerely held beliefs about scripture - or a desire for eventual reunification with the Roman Catholic Church. It is a good compromise, therefore, that parishes unwilling to serve under a woman bishop will be able to request a male alternative, and that an ombudsman will arbitrate in the case of disputes.
Ultimately, yesterday's vote was in the Church's interests. Only 18 months earlier, the Synod had failed to achieve full unity on the matter, which had led to calls from some - particularly on the Left - for Parliament to impose its will on the Established Church. This would have been a terrible idea in practice and could have caused irreversible damage to the constitution.
Some of the Church of England's critics will argue that a vote for women bishops was years overdue. It was more important, we believe, for Anglicans to arrive at the decision in their own good time - and to show unity at a time when other challenges, most notably gay marriage, loom ahead of them.
