Church of England allows female bishops - World News | IOL News | IOL.co.za
Reuters
Two members of the clergy leave the Church of England's Synod during a lunch break in the session which later approved the consecration of women bishops, in York. Picture: Nigel Roddis
London -
The Church of England ended one of its longest and most divisive disputes on Monday with an overwhelming vote in favour of allowing women to become bishops.
The church's national assembly, known as the General Synod, voted for the historic measure, reaching the required two-thirds majority in each of its three different houses. In total, 351 members of the three houses approved of the move. Only 72 voted against and 10 abstained.
Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby said the long-awaited change marks the completion of a process that started more than 20 years ago with the ordination of women as priests. He called for tolerance and love for those traditionalists who disagree with the decision.
"As delighted as I am for the outcome of this vote, I am also mindful of whose within the church for whom the result will be difficult and a cause of sorrow," he said in a statement.
British Prime Minister David Cameron called it a "great day for the Church and for equality".
Opponents argued that allowing women into such a senior position in the church goes against the Bible. Others warned that the church should not be guided by secular ethics.
Lay member Lorna Ashworth, who did not support the move, said the church has entered new territory. "This is something we have to work out as we go along," she said.
The Church of England represents diverse religious groups from conservative evangelicals to supporters of gay marriage. Major changes can take years, even decades to bring about.
Two years ago similar legislation narrowly failed to reach the two-thirds majority with lay members, despite the approval from bishops and clergy.
After that vote failed, the church worked to build trust with its lay members, who lagged behind church leaders on the question of female bishops, and make the legislation more acceptable to opponents.
At the same time the church came under increasing pressure from the outside to reform in favour of women. Some of those who changed their vote this time around said they did not want to block changes the majority was happy with.
Monday's vote marks the latest advance of women in the church hierarchy.
The General Synod ruled in 1975 there was no fundamental objection to women becoming priests, but it took nearly two decades for the first women to be ordained.
Things are likely to move faster for aspiring female bishops. Welby told the BBC he expects the first woman bishop in the Church of England by next year.
He was less sure when asked if there will be a female Archbishop of Canterbury in his lifetime: "I've no idea. I'd be delighted if I did."
The Church of England was established by King Henry VIII who appointed himself as its head in 1534. The government still formally appoints the Archbishop of Canterbury, the spiritual leader of the church, and Queen Elizabeth II serves as its supreme governor.
Parliament maintains a role in church affairs, and will be called upon to ratify the female bishop legislation. About 26 bishops are allocated seats in the House of Lords.
The Church of England is part of the global Anglican Communion with 77 million members in more than 160 countries. The Episcopal Church in the Unites States was the first member to have a woman bishop and is now led by a woman. - Sapa-AP
Related Stories

Women bishops? How American Episcopalians view Church of England vote. (+video) - CSMonitor.com
When the Church of England voted Monday to allow women to become ordained as bishops, it broke another "stained glass ceiling."
A number of Protestant denominations, especially in the United States, have been ordaining women for more than a century, but Monday's vote holds special significance, given the church's history and place in Christianity.
Indeed, the Church of England, the mostly-symbolic mother church for an 80-million-member global Anglican community that includes 2.1 million American Episcopalians, is one of the oldest and most conservative of Christian traditions to officially break in full from the long-held requirement of an all-male clergy.
"I don't think you can overstate the fact that the Church of England allowing women to take up the role of bishop is going to change the church," said the Very Reverend June Osborne, dean of the Salisbury Cathedral in southern England, after the vote. "I think it's going to change our society as well because it's one more step in accepting that women are really and truly equal in spiritual authority, as well as in leadership in society."
Like their liturgical cousins in the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox traditions - which together make up approximately 1.5 billion of the world's 2.2 billion Christians - Anglicans generally adhere to Christian rites and rituals that go back at least 1,500 years, if not longer, scholars say. And each believe in the doctrine of "apostolic succession," the historical claim that all ordinations to Christian ministry follow an unbroken ritual of laying on of hands, going back to the apostles.
For Catholics and Orthodox, the ordination of women remains strictly forbidden for this reason. Christ laid hands on his male apostles, who in turn laid hands on the next generation of ordained male clergy, and so on to the present day. The continuity of this tradition is seen as absolute, and the requirement of an all-male clerical hierarchy is considered a near-infallible teaching.
In the 20th century, however, several local Anglican bishops began to ordain women as priests, generating a furor. The Anglican diocese of Hong Kong and Macao conferred holy orders to a female in 1944 and 1971, and American Episcopal bishops ordained 11 women to the priesthood in 1974. In the Episcopal diocese of Massachusetts in 1989, Barbara Harris became the first ordained bishop in the history of the worldwide Anglican communion.
"I do think that the ordination of women in the Episcopal church really is the gift, I would say, that the Anglican church gives to Christians worldwide," says Jennifer Hughes, professor of history at the University of California, Riverside, and an ordained Episcopal priest. "Especially since their tradition is anchored in the sacramental and eucharistic tradition."
The Church of England, too, had begun to ordain women to the priesthood in 1992, and observers say the first bishop could be elected by the end of the year.
But it's not simply about ordination, many church observers say, but also about what women bring to Christian liturgical ministry.
"[It's] important to emphasize as new generations of women seek ordination ... that women's ordination rites can, and should, do more than authorize women to serve in a male-dominated profession," says Jill Crainshaw, professor of worship and liturgical theology at the Divinity School at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C., in an e-mail. "Women clergy challenge faith communities to reconsider core values such as how they interpret scripture and how they live out ministry."
Professor Hughes, who Ms. Harris welcomed into the Episcopal Church when she converted over a decade ago, says the same.
"Certainly my experience as a woman at the altar, with a sacramental ministry, celebrating the eucharist, has been not just a gift, but it's an incredible experience," she says.
Though ordained an Episcopalian, Hughes still considers herself a Roman Catholic, the faith she in which she was born and raised. "I was never a lapsed Catholic," she says. "I've begun to think of myself, and to speak of myself as a Roman Catholic woman ordained in the Episcopal Church."
"I think I'm rare in saying that, I'm unusual articulating that, but I feel given the politics, especially now, I think its really important to assert that, because that's really the truth," she says. "I feel strongly about women being equal at every level in the 'church universal,' and having access to every level of ministry."
Monday's vote by the Church of England, she says, is part of an inevitable and ongoing process in global Christianity.
"I think when you let women [become bishops], they come into step with themselves as vehicles of God's power," Hughes says. "And the roof kind of gets blown off of things. I think it's enough power in some ways to blow right through that stained-glass ceiling, the kind of power that emerges from that experience of ministry."
