Church of England allows female bishops - World News | IOL News | IOL.co.za
Reuters
Two members of the clergy leave the Church of England's Synod during a lunch break in the session which later approved the consecration of women bishops, in York. Picture: Nigel Roddis
London -
The Church of England ended one of its longest and most divisive disputes on Monday with an overwhelming vote in favour of allowing women to become bishops.
The church's national assembly, known as the General Synod, voted for the historic measure, reaching the required two-thirds majority in each of its three different houses. In total, 351 members of the three houses approved of the move. Only 72 voted against and 10 abstained.
Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby said the long-awaited change marks the completion of a process that started more than 20 years ago with the ordination of women as priests. He called for tolerance and love for those traditionalists who disagree with the decision.
"As delighted as I am for the outcome of this vote, I am also mindful of whose within the church for whom the result will be difficult and a cause of sorrow," he said in a statement.
British Prime Minister David Cameron called it a "great day for the Church and for equality".
Opponents argued that allowing women into such a senior position in the church goes against the Bible. Others warned that the church should not be guided by secular ethics.
Lay member Lorna Ashworth, who did not support the move, said the church has entered new territory. "This is something we have to work out as we go along," she said.
The Church of England represents diverse religious groups from conservative evangelicals to supporters of gay marriage. Major changes can take years, even decades to bring about.
Two years ago similar legislation narrowly failed to reach the two-thirds majority with lay members, despite the approval from bishops and clergy.
After that vote failed, the church worked to build trust with its lay members, who lagged behind church leaders on the question of female bishops, and make the legislation more acceptable to opponents.
At the same time the church came under increasing pressure from the outside to reform in favour of women. Some of those who changed their vote this time around said they did not want to block changes the majority was happy with.
Monday's vote marks the latest advance of women in the church hierarchy.
The General Synod ruled in 1975 there was no fundamental objection to women becoming priests, but it took nearly two decades for the first women to be ordained.
Things are likely to move faster for aspiring female bishops. Welby told the BBC he expects the first woman bishop in the Church of England by next year.
He was less sure when asked if there will be a female Archbishop of Canterbury in his lifetime: "I've no idea. I'd be delighted if I did."
The Church of England was established by King Henry VIII who appointed himself as its head in 1534. The government still formally appoints the Archbishop of Canterbury, the spiritual leader of the church, and Queen Elizabeth II serves as its supreme governor.
Parliament maintains a role in church affairs, and will be called upon to ratify the female bishop legislation. About 26 bishops are allocated seats in the House of Lords.
The Church of England is part of the global Anglican Communion with 77 million members in more than 160 countries. The Episcopal Church in the Unites States was the first member to have a woman bishop and is now led by a woman. - Sapa-AP
Related Stories

Women bishops: Church of England still divided but now prepared to trust each other - Comment - Voices - The Independent
It probably wasn't the speeches on the day that changed minds. Many of them were excellent, especially before lunch, as somebody unkindly observed. But then the Synod audience knew the arguments back to front. Only one address stirred passions. This was a barnstorming speech by John Spence, who is visually impaired. He told how his eyesight had suddenly deteriorated in his thirties and had been advised that it would be difficult for him to retain his job. But he had persevered and he had succeeded by trusting that colleagues and friends would help him realise his strong desire to continue working in a senior capacity.
He urged Synod members to trust each other in the same way despite their sometimes bitter divisions.
There were other factors. The disapproval that rejection generated in November 2012 among ordinary members of the public was so overwhelming that the conservative evangelicals, who had instinctively opposed women bishops on the grounds that no biblical authority for them existed, were prepared to join an attempt to see whether a new way forward could be found.
Then searching for a route out of the impasse was substantially helped by the use of what are called facilitated conversations, in which differences can be deeply explored and solutions or safeguards sought. This technique is borrowed from the disciplines of mediation in which Archbishop Welby is expert and experienced.
A helpful decision was also taken by the House of Bishops when it drew up a statement of guiding principles that would bring comfort to the conservative evangelicals while at the same time emphasising that women bishops would enjoy precisely the same powers as men.
They were not to be second-class bishops as had been feared when the legislation was first drafted. Thus the conservative evangelicals were promised that the Church of England remained "committed to enabling them to flourish within its life and structures" while future women bishops were told that they would receive "due respect and canonical obedience".
In fact what the Church of England achieved here is noteworthy. For like so many institutions it has been struggling to overcome a lack of trust among its members.
In relation to women bishops, the questions became - how do we live with disagreement, how do we move from the legalistic to the relational, can we learn to respect difference? The Church is far from alone in facing such questions.
Andreas Whittam Smith is the First Church Estates Commissioner, as well as one of the founders of The Independent
