Church of England allows female bishops - World News | IOL News | IOL.co.za
Reuters
Two members of the clergy leave the Church of England's Synod during a lunch break in the session which later approved the consecration of women bishops, in York. Picture: Nigel Roddis
London -
The Church of England ended one of its longest and most divisive disputes on Monday with an overwhelming vote in favour of allowing women to become bishops.
The church's national assembly, known as the General Synod, voted for the historic measure, reaching the required two-thirds majority in each of its three different houses. In total, 351 members of the three houses approved of the move. Only 72 voted against and 10 abstained.
Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby said the long-awaited change marks the completion of a process that started more than 20 years ago with the ordination of women as priests. He called for tolerance and love for those traditionalists who disagree with the decision.
"As delighted as I am for the outcome of this vote, I am also mindful of whose within the church for whom the result will be difficult and a cause of sorrow," he said in a statement.
British Prime Minister David Cameron called it a "great day for the Church and for equality".
Opponents argued that allowing women into such a senior position in the church goes against the Bible. Others warned that the church should not be guided by secular ethics.
Lay member Lorna Ashworth, who did not support the move, said the church has entered new territory. "This is something we have to work out as we go along," she said.
The Church of England represents diverse religious groups from conservative evangelicals to supporters of gay marriage. Major changes can take years, even decades to bring about.
Two years ago similar legislation narrowly failed to reach the two-thirds majority with lay members, despite the approval from bishops and clergy.
After that vote failed, the church worked to build trust with its lay members, who lagged behind church leaders on the question of female bishops, and make the legislation more acceptable to opponents.
At the same time the church came under increasing pressure from the outside to reform in favour of women. Some of those who changed their vote this time around said they did not want to block changes the majority was happy with.
Monday's vote marks the latest advance of women in the church hierarchy.
The General Synod ruled in 1975 there was no fundamental objection to women becoming priests, but it took nearly two decades for the first women to be ordained.
Things are likely to move faster for aspiring female bishops. Welby told the BBC he expects the first woman bishop in the Church of England by next year.
He was less sure when asked if there will be a female Archbishop of Canterbury in his lifetime: "I've no idea. I'd be delighted if I did."
The Church of England was established by King Henry VIII who appointed himself as its head in 1534. The government still formally appoints the Archbishop of Canterbury, the spiritual leader of the church, and Queen Elizabeth II serves as its supreme governor.
Parliament maintains a role in church affairs, and will be called upon to ratify the female bishop legislation. About 26 bishops are allocated seats in the House of Lords.
The Church of England is part of the global Anglican Communion with 77 million members in more than 160 countries. The Episcopal Church in the Unites States was the first member to have a woman bishop and is now led by a woman. - Sapa-AP
Related Stories

Ordination of women: Sydney's Anglican diocese 'out of step' with the times
"As much as we respect the Church of England, it is no longer the centre of our world": Robert Forsyth. Photo: Marco Del Grande
The Church of England's decision to allow women bishops may represent a historical shift in attitudes in its General Synod, but to the dismay of supporters of the ordination of women, the move may hold little sway for Sydney's Anglican community.
The Bishop of South Sydney, Robert Forsyth, said that while he expected the result of Monday's momentous vote, he doubts it will have ''much of an impact at all'' on the diocese of Sydney, which does not support the ordination of women as priests or bishops, despite the consecration of women bishops in Australia since 2008.
''As much as we respect the Church of England, it is no longer the centre of our world,'' Bishop Forsyth said. ''It's not our Rome, it's a partner church in the worldwide community of Anglicans. From the point of view of our diocese, I doubt this will have much of an impact at all.
''These are not casual points of view, these are deeper held views. We've had a lot of discussion [about the ordination of women] over the last 20 years. No one can see into the future but I don't think they'll change.''
Advertisement
His views are allied with those of members of England's synod who opposed the change, arguing the ordination of women contradicts the teachings of the Bible.
Australia's Anglican Church operates as a confederation of sorts, with each diocese making its own decisions over governance. Sydney's unwillingness to address the ordination of women other than as deacons - setting it apart from dioceses in Brisbane, Perth, Melbourne and Canberra - has frustrated liberal factions within the Anglican community.
''While we support women being ordained in all areas of ministry of the church, I certainly don't expect the diocese of Sydney is going to shift from its perspective any time soon,'' said the rector of St James, King Street and supporter of equality in the church, Andrew Sempell.
''I think it's sad that in Australia we have such a fractured structure for the Anglican Church such that on these important leadership issues dioceses can be out of step with each other and out of step with the wider community.''
The Reverend Dorothy Lee, head of Trinity College Theological School in Melbourne, said the Church of England result was ''a great victory'' and step towards equality but any such move in Sydney would be anathema to its evangelical stance.
''Sydney is very much out on a limb here, they believe in male headship; it's a view that Sydney has emphatically emphasised and, if anything, even more emphasised in recent years,'' Professor Lee said.
But Bishop Forsyth stood by a degree of unity among his cohorts and said that "real Christian fellowship and love" presides over the actions of Australian bishops.
"We don't deny there are differences, nor do we let those differences stop us from relating as closely as we can as Christians,'' he said.
''We are united in that we really are trying to give women a very big role in the church but we disagree about where that is.''
The Anglican Church League president, the Reverend Gav Poole, said that while he disagrees with the ''inevitable'' Church of England decision, he admires its approach, which has made allowances for minorities who do not support the ordination of women.
England's decision came two years after a similar vote failed on grounds that it did not include provisions for those who in good conscience could not accept the leadership of a woman.
Echoing both sides of the ordination divide, any shift in local attitudes was likely to be a long way off, Mr Poole said.
''Sydney is known around the world for its evangelical character and its holding to the authority of the scriptures,'' he said. ''That's a long tradition here in Sydney and something we have always appreciated.''
