Church of England allows female bishops - World News | IOL News | IOL.co.za
Reuters
Two members of the clergy leave the Church of England's Synod during a lunch break in the session which later approved the consecration of women bishops, in York. Picture: Nigel Roddis
London -
The Church of England ended one of its longest and most divisive disputes on Monday with an overwhelming vote in favour of allowing women to become bishops.
The church's national assembly, known as the General Synod, voted for the historic measure, reaching the required two-thirds majority in each of its three different houses. In total, 351 members of the three houses approved of the move. Only 72 voted against and 10 abstained.
Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby said the long-awaited change marks the completion of a process that started more than 20 years ago with the ordination of women as priests. He called for tolerance and love for those traditionalists who disagree with the decision.
"As delighted as I am for the outcome of this vote, I am also mindful of whose within the church for whom the result will be difficult and a cause of sorrow," he said in a statement.
British Prime Minister David Cameron called it a "great day for the Church and for equality".
Opponents argued that allowing women into such a senior position in the church goes against the Bible. Others warned that the church should not be guided by secular ethics.
Lay member Lorna Ashworth, who did not support the move, said the church has entered new territory. "This is something we have to work out as we go along," she said.
The Church of England represents diverse religious groups from conservative evangelicals to supporters of gay marriage. Major changes can take years, even decades to bring about.
Two years ago similar legislation narrowly failed to reach the two-thirds majority with lay members, despite the approval from bishops and clergy.
After that vote failed, the church worked to build trust with its lay members, who lagged behind church leaders on the question of female bishops, and make the legislation more acceptable to opponents.
At the same time the church came under increasing pressure from the outside to reform in favour of women. Some of those who changed their vote this time around said they did not want to block changes the majority was happy with.
Monday's vote marks the latest advance of women in the church hierarchy.
The General Synod ruled in 1975 there was no fundamental objection to women becoming priests, but it took nearly two decades for the first women to be ordained.
Things are likely to move faster for aspiring female bishops. Welby told the BBC he expects the first woman bishop in the Church of England by next year.
He was less sure when asked if there will be a female Archbishop of Canterbury in his lifetime: "I've no idea. I'd be delighted if I did."
The Church of England was established by King Henry VIII who appointed himself as its head in 1534. The government still formally appoints the Archbishop of Canterbury, the spiritual leader of the church, and Queen Elizabeth II serves as its supreme governor.
Parliament maintains a role in church affairs, and will be called upon to ratify the female bishop legislation. About 26 bishops are allocated seats in the House of Lords.
The Church of England is part of the global Anglican Communion with 77 million members in more than 160 countries. The Episcopal Church in the Unites States was the first member to have a woman bishop and is now led by a woman. - Sapa-AP
Related Stories

Church of England approves women bishops
YORK, UNITED KINGDOM: The Church of England overcame bitter divisions to vote in favour of allowing female bishops for the first time in its nearly 500-year history.
The decision reverses a previous shock rejection in 2012 and comes after intensive diplomacy by Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby.
Cheers erupted in the hall at the Church of England General Synod in York, northern England on Moday, as the measure passed.
The first women bishops could now be appointed before the end of the year.
The Church of England is the mother church of the global Anglican Communion, followed by some 80 million people in over 165 countries.
Welby, a former oil executive who has staked his authority pressed for the appointment of women bishops since being named to the Church's top post in November 2012, said he was "delighted" by the result.
"Today marks the start of a great adventure of seeking mutual flourishing while still, in some cases disagreeing," he said.
The results came in a series of three votes across different houses of the Church.
The House of Bishops voted 37 for, two against with one abstention and the House of Clergy voted 162 for, 25 against with four abstentions.
The House of Laity -- whose shock no vote in 2012 derailed the entire project -- this time voted 152 in favour, 45 against with five abstentions.
British Prime Minister David Cameron said Welby had "shown great leadership on this issue".
He later wrote on Twitter that he "warmly welcomed" the vote, calling it "a great day for the Church and for equality".
The issue must now be debated by Britain's parliament, approved by Queen Elizabeth II and then go back to the General Synod in November as a formality before taking effect.
Around 150 supporters congregated outside the hall to celebrate the result, hugging each other to the sound of popping champagne corks.
Female priest Lindsay Southern called the news "absolutely fantastic."
"I was so impressed with the graciousness and the generosity of spirit in the debate," she told AFP. "I feel like I just want to sit down with a quiet cup of tea."
A yes vote does not compel Anglican churches in other countries to allow women bishops, but senior clergy say it sets a symbolic precedent that other nations would be likely to follow.
There are already Anglican women bishops in other countries, including the United States, Canada and Australia.
The principle of appointing women bishops had been strongly opposed by conservatives in the Church of England.
But many said they had been persuaded to support the current package of proposals due to assurances that their views would continue to be respected and they would not be forced to be ministered to by a female bishop.
Welby's de facto number two, Archbishop of York John Sentamu, had hinted at the frustration among top clergy over how long it has taken to resolve the issue as he opened the debate.
"This is the third time in two years we have embarked on a final approval debate on women bishops -- you ought by now to be getting the hang of it," he joked.
Emma Ineson, principal of a theological college in Bristol, southwest England, had earlier told the hall how her female students had been "dismayed, confused, discouraged" by the 2012 no vote.
Women priests were first ordained in 1994 and the Church of England has been debating whether they should be allowed to be bishops in earnest since 2000.
They currently make up around a third of the clergy.
The Church of England broke with the Roman Catholic Church in the 16th Century over King Henry VIII's desire to divorce Catherine of Aragon and marry Anne Boleyn.

