Ordination of women: Sydney's Anglican diocese 'out of step' with the times
"As much as we respect the Church of England, it is no longer the centre of our world": Robert Forsyth. Photo: Marco Del Grande
The Church of England's decision to allow women bishops may represent a historical shift in attitudes in its General Synod, but to the dismay of supporters of the ordination of women, the move may hold little sway for Sydney's Anglican community.
The Bishop of South Sydney, Robert Forsyth, said that while he expected the result of Monday's momentous vote, he doubts it will have ''much of an impact at all'' on the diocese of Sydney, which does not support the ordination of women as priests or bishops, despite the consecration of women bishops in Australia since 2008.
''As much as we respect the Church of England, it is no longer the centre of our world,'' Bishop Forsyth said. ''It's not our Rome, it's a partner church in the worldwide community of Anglicans. From the point of view of our diocese, I doubt this will have much of an impact at all.
''These are not casual points of view, these are deeper held views. We've had a lot of discussion [about the ordination of women] over the last 20 years. No one can see into the future but I don't think they'll change.''
Advertisement
His views are allied with those of members of England's synod who opposed the change, arguing the ordination of women contradicts the teachings of the Bible.
Australia's Anglican Church operates as a confederation of sorts, with each diocese making its own decisions over governance. Sydney's unwillingness to address the ordination of women other than as deacons - setting it apart from dioceses in Brisbane, Perth, Melbourne and Canberra - has frustrated liberal factions within the Anglican community.
''While we support women being ordained in all areas of ministry of the church, I certainly don't expect the diocese of Sydney is going to shift from its perspective any time soon,'' said the rector of St James, King Street and supporter of equality in the church, Andrew Sempell.
''I think it's sad that in Australia we have such a fractured structure for the Anglican Church such that on these important leadership issues dioceses can be out of step with each other and out of step with the wider community.''
The Reverend Dorothy Lee, head of Trinity College Theological School in Melbourne, said the Church of England result was ''a great victory'' and step towards equality but any such move in Sydney would be anathema to its evangelical stance.
''Sydney is very much out on a limb here, they believe in male headship; it's a view that Sydney has emphatically emphasised and, if anything, even more emphasised in recent years,'' Professor Lee said.
But Bishop Forsyth stood by a degree of unity among his cohorts and said that "real Christian fellowship and love" presides over the actions of Australian bishops.
"We don't deny there are differences, nor do we let those differences stop us from relating as closely as we can as Christians,'' he said.
''We are united in that we really are trying to give women a very big role in the church but we disagree about where that is.''
The Anglican Church League president, the Reverend Gav Poole, said that while he disagrees with the ''inevitable'' Church of England decision, he admires its approach, which has made allowances for minorities who do not support the ordination of women.
England's decision came two years after a similar vote failed on grounds that it did not include provisions for those who in good conscience could not accept the leadership of a woman.
Echoing both sides of the ordination divide, any shift in local attitudes was likely to be a long way off, Mr Poole said.
''Sydney is known around the world for its evangelical character and its holding to the authority of the scriptures,'' he said. ''That's a long tradition here in Sydney and something we have always appreciated.''
