The Church of England has found unity on its own terms - Telegraph
More than two decades have passed since the Church of England ordained its first women priests, amid howls of protest and acrimony. But the mood was a very different one yesterday when - after almost five hours of reasoned debate - the General Synod finally voted to raise women to the episcopate. In many ways, this monumental decision came as a relief, and the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Most Rev Justin Welby, deserves praise for leading his flock out of a quagmire of debate that at times looked as though it might swallow them up. Without his oversight during the careful process of reconciliation among Anglicans that began last year, it is doubtful that yesterday's vote would have been received so warmly.
It is not for us to comment on the theology behind the decision. We can only reflect on the fact that a large majority of Anglicans seemed to support the idea of women bishops - 43 of 44 dioceses, to be precise (and the last was unable to complete the consultation in time). In part, this is surely due to the staggering success of women priests. Women now constitute around a third of the clergy; and when faced with this day-to-day reality, even the most vociferous opposition has often melted away.
Nevertheless, there will have to be a good deal of magnanimity from those in the Church who voted for women bishops - and they know this better than any outsider. As the Archbishop of York, Dr John Sentamu, pointed out yesterday, the result should be met with "restraint and sensitivity". Opponents of the move, mostly evangelicals and Anglo-Catholics, are not being difficult for the sake of it, but because of sincerely held beliefs about scripture - or a desire for eventual reunification with the Roman Catholic Church. It is a good compromise, therefore, that parishes unwilling to serve under a woman bishop will be able to request a male alternative, and that an ombudsman will arbitrate in the case of disputes.
Ultimately, yesterday's vote was in the Church's interests. Only 18 months earlier, the Synod had failed to achieve full unity on the matter, which had led to calls from some - particularly on the Left - for Parliament to impose its will on the Established Church. This would have been a terrible idea in practice and could have caused irreversible damage to the constitution.
Some of the Church of England's critics will argue that a vote for women bishops was years overdue. It was more important, we believe, for Anglicans to arrive at the decision in their own good time - and to show unity at a time when other challenges, most notably gay marriage, loom ahead of them.
