Jerry Sandusky investigators showed 'inexcusable lack of urgency' in case against ex-Penn State coach: report - NY Daily News
PAT LITTLE/REUTERS Prosecutors and police took up to three years to get the ball rolling in the sex-abuse investigation of Jerry Sandusky (center), a new report finds.
A shoddy investigation enabled ex-Penn State coach Jerry Sandusky to stay on the loose to molest children, says a report released Monday.
But the 339-page report by the Pennsylvania Attorney General's Office found no evidence politics played a role in stalling the 32-month investigation of the pervert coach.
"This was a full and fair review. The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator," said Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane.
Citing the report, Kane blamed the delay in getting Sandusky off the street on a lousy investigation full of "inexplicable delays."
Problems the report cited included:
- Delays in getting documents from Penn State and Sandusky's charity, The Second Mile, which would have revealed a 1998 police report accusing Sandusky of child molestation.
- A bad decision not to search Sandusky's home until two years after the state Attorney General's Office received the case.
The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator.
- A lead prosecutor's recommendation to charge Sandusky in early 2010 was ignored for five months and then denied by superiors who demanded more than one victim to justify the prosecution of an iconic coach.
"The report documents that more investigative work took place in just one month in 2011 than in all of either 2009 or 2010," Kane noted.
While running for attorney general in 2012, Kane implied her predecessor, now Gov. Tom Corbett, may have delayed the investigation for political reasons.
Corbett -- a Republican who in 2011 authorized a $3 million state grant to The Second Mile charity -- denied he interfered in the Sandusky case.
Still, Kane, a Democrat, ordered the review once she took office.
"We found no direct evidence that electoral politics influenced any important decision made in the investigation," said Geoffrey Moulton, a former federal prosecutor who led the probe.
Bradley C Bower/AP Special Deputy Attorney General H. Geoffery Moulton Jr. (right) and Pennsylvania state Attorney General Kathleen Kane (left) ordered the report that exposes 'inexcusable' delays in the Sandusky case.
"In fact, we found nothing ... to indicate (former) Attorney General Corbett made any decisions at all in the investigation," Moulton said.
Corbett issued a statement Monday, saying "this investigation was never about politics."
"The Sandusky investigation was conducted with a single purpose: to ensure justice for the victims and families by taking a child predator off the streets. Nothing more. Nothing less," Corbett said in the statement.
Sandusky, who was legendary Penn State head coach Joe Paterno's defensive mastermind, was convicted in June 2012 of molesting 10 boys over a 15-year span.
The 70-year-old Sandusky was sentenced to up to 60 years in prison.

The Short List: Hottest May, sex trafficking rescue, Sandusky report
Farmer Marshall Rodda inspects an empty dam, leaving him with fields of stunted wheat stalks, in Wimmera, Australia.(Photo: William West, AFP/Getty Images)
How hot was May? So hot
Feel the burn. Last month was the hottest May on Earth ever recorded. The heat was fueled by unusual warmth in the oceans, which make up more than 70% of the Earth's surface, according to a climate report released Monday by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The majority of the world experienced the hot temps, with record warmth felt across eastern Kazakhstan, parts of Indonesia, and central and northwestern Australia.
FBI on sex-trafficking operation: 'These are America's children'
The numbers: 106 cities targeted, 168 child victims rescued, and 281 alleged pimps nabbed. The recoveries and arrests were part of a nationwide crackdown on commercial sex trafficking. Over the past seven years, Operation Cross Country has recovered 3,400 children who have been sexually exploited, according to the FBI. "These are not children living in some faraway place, far from everyday life," FBI Director James Comey said. "These are our children. On our streets. Our truck stops. Our motels. These are America's children."
The FBI says agents and local police in the last week rescued 168 victims of child sex trafficking. In addition, 281 pimps were also arrested as part of the same nationwide initiative, an annual enforcement push known as Operation Cross Country. (Ju AP
Sandusky report finds everyone waited too long to stop the serial sexual predator
The police and the prosecutors took their time. A report reviewing the investigation of former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky found the investigation was delayed by "crucial missteps and inexplicable delays in bringing a serial child molester to justice," Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane said Monday. There were rumblings the investigation was delayed because when it first launched in 2009, then-attorney general Tom Corbett was running for governor. When Kane, a Democrat, ran for attorney general in 2012, she accused Corbett, a Republican, of slowing down the investigation for political reasons. The report came down on Corbett's side. Still, Kane said the unexplained delays, such as failing to obtain a search warrant for Sandusky's home early in the investigation, may have delayed his arrest and resulted in more abuse.
Former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky walks into the Centre County Courthouse before being sentenced in his child sex abuse case on October 9, 2012, in Bellefonte, Pa.(Photo: Patrick Smith, Getty Images)
Michael Schumacher's medical files might have been stolen
Michael Schumacher's out of a coma, but he's got a new headache: stolen medical records. Schumacher's management has warned that someone is trying to sell documents that may be the medical files of the seven-time Formula One world champion. Schumacher left a French hospital last week, six months after sustaining serious head injuries in a skiing accident. He's now recovering in Switzerland. His manager, Sabine Kehm, said she'll sue any publication that tries to publish them.
Formula One champion Michael Schumacher is out of a coma and has left the French hospital treating him since a devastating ski accident in December 2013.(Photo: Jose Jordan, AFP/Getty Images)
Extra BItes
Day in Pictures: An awesome photo from today's gallery.
A U.S. fan cheers during the 2014 World Cup soccer match between Portugal and the USA on June 22 at the Amazonia arena in Manaus, Brazil.(Photo: Siphiwe Sibeko, Reuters)
Provided without comment: Firefighters rescue student trapped in vagina sculpture.
A U.S. exchange student got stuck inside a large sculpture of a vagina and 22 firefighters were needed for his rescue. Gillian Pensavalle has the story. Video provided by Buzz60 Newslook
The story you need to share with chocoholics everywhere: Chocolate fried chicken. It's happening.
Sting: Rock daddy tells his kids to earn their own money. Preach.
This is a compilation of stories from across USA TODAY.
Contributing: Mary Beth Marklein, John Bacon, Doyle Rice, USA TODAY; Associated Press
