Hobby Lobby: Believe it or not | The Economist
Pro-lifers are elated
TWO years ago the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. A decision on June 30th was less favourable. The Court allowed an exception to Obamacare's mandate that firms above a certain size offer their staff insurance that includes free contraception. Rarely has a decision provoked such controversy. Hillary Clinton called it "deeply disturbing" , though her husband signed the law that underpins it.
The case, Burwell v Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc, was brought by two Christian families and their businesses. The Greens own Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft shops, and Mardel, a Christian bookstore; the Hahns own Conestoga Wood Specialties, a cabinetmaker. Obamacare requires firms to offer their workers all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The Greens and Hahns believe that four of those contraceptives, including the "morning-after pill", are abortifacients, since they may keep a fertilised egg from implanting in the uterine wall.
In this section
Related topics
The issue was not whether these highly debatable beliefs are valid, but the circumstances under which a religious objection may trump a federal law. The constitution protects the right to the "free exercise" of religion. A 1993 law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, further requires that the government "shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion" unless doing so is the least restrictive way to advance a compelling government interest. By five votes to four, the court ruled that obliging closely held firms with religious owners to pay for their employees' contraceptives violates that principle.
The government had argued that Hobby Lobby could not claim to have religious beliefs because it is a for-profit corporation. "While the Greens are persons who exercise religion, there is a critical separation between the Greens and the corporation they have elected to create," the government's lawyers insisted. A company has rights and obligations that differ from those of its owners. That includes being subject to Obamacare's employer mandate, they argued.
The court's conservative justices disagreed. "Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby, Conestoga and Mardel protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control these companies," wrote Justice Samuel Alito. If Hobby Lobby refused to cover the four contraceptives, it faced fines of up to $475m a year, which Mr Alito said clearly counted as a "substantial burden". And the government had other, less onerous ways to provide contraception, he argued. For example, it could pay for contraception itself or include for-profit companies in an "accommodation" already made for non-profit religious organisations, such as Catholic universities. Under that accommodation, insurers cover the cost of contraception, without raising prices for employers or their workers.
Mr Alito insisted that the ruling was a narrow one, applying only to closely held firms under very specific circumstances. It is unclear how the government will now ensure that women with religious employers obtain free contraception. The "accommodation" may not be viable; its legality is being challenged by separate suits. Some women may have to pay for their own contraceptives. (Since the cost of company-provided insurance comes largely out of wages, many women with employer coverage are already paying some of the cost of their contraceptives.)
The ruling could make it harder to enforce the Obamacare mandate that employers offer health insurance (a mandate that has already been delayed). Many firms are "closely held", including some that employ tens of thousands of workers. These companies may now seek exemptions from other parts of the mandate.
On July 1st the Supreme Court ordered lower courts to revisit objections to a broader set of contraceptives, in addition to the four raised by Hobby Lobby. In future, companies might challenge Obamacare's mandate to cover immunisations, blood transfusions or medicines derived from pigs, though none has yet done so. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the decision was of "startling breadth". Companies, she wrote, "can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."

Americans Can't Agree On The Hobby Lobby Decision
Americans don't agree on the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in the Hobby Lobby case, a new HuffPost/YouGov poll finds.
Forty-six percent of Americans said they approved of the high court's decision that "closely held" companies, such as those controlled by families, cannot be required to provide contraception coverage for their employees if doing so violates the owners' religious beliefs. Forty-one percent disapproved.
Opinion was sharply divided along party and gender lines. While 77 percent of Republicans approved, just 20 percent of Democrats did. Men were 11 percentage points more likely than women to support the decision.
More broadly, 52 percent of Americans favored requiring employers to provide health care plans that cover the cost of birth control, while 32 percent did not.
As with many other subjects that involve both a hot-button debate and a slew of nuanced details, however, the polling on this issue is highly sensitive to how the question is phrased. Ask Americans whether they generally support contraception coverage, and a majority tend to agree. Mention religious objections, and support tends to drop. In a recent Kaiser Family Foundation poll, for instance, 61 percent said private health insurance plans should cover the full cost of birth control, but just 55 percent said that for-profit companies whose owners object to birth control on religious grounds should have to cover it.
In the immediate aftermath of the Supreme Court's rulings in favor of Hobby Lobby and against abortion clinic buffer zones, the HuffPost/YouGov survey finds Republicans far more satisfied than Democrats with the court. Fifty-seven percent of Republicans said they approved of the Supreme Court's performance as a whole, compared to just 37 percent of Democrats and 33 percent of independents.
According to the poll, contraception is not controversial to most Americans. Seventy-three percent said using birth control is morally acceptable; just 7 percent said it is morally wrong.
Democrats were more likely to express positive views about birth control use, with 80 percent calling it morally acceptable. Sixty-two percent of Republicans and 72 percent of independents agreed.
The HuffPost/YouGov poll was conducted July 1 to July 2 among 1,000 U.S. adults using a sample selected from YouGov's opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population. Factors considered include age, race, gender, education, employment, income, marital status, number of children, voter registration, time and location of Internet access, interest in politics, religion and church attendance.
The Huffington Post has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov's nationally representative opinion polling. Data from all HuffPost/YouGov polls can be found here.
