Spoiler alert: this blog is published after Game of Thrones airs on HBO in the US on Sundays. Do not read on unless you have watched season four, episode 10 (which airs in the UK on Sky Atlantic on Monday at 9pm). And, even more than usual, please keep books spoilers to a minimum.
Read Sarah Hughes' episode nine recap
'I am your son. I have always been your son'
Making good on its title, this was a well-paced and brutal conclusion to what has proved a fascinating season. In Essos, Dany was shown the incinerated corpse of a little girl and, heart sore, chained her own dragon children; entombing them in the catacombs of Meereen. It's a decision she may well regret, given her storyline's preoccupation with freedom and slavery.
North of the Wall, Bran and co met one of Old Nan's legends come to life as the (rather spooky) children led them to the three-eyed Raven and the promise of flight. In King's Landing, Cersei, whose best quality has always been her fierce love for her children, told her father the truth about her relationship with Jaime and then offered herself back up to her brother to ensure she remained in the city and close by her surviving son. In the wild lands outside the Eyrie, Arya rejected the possibility of a different kind of life offered by Brienne and then left her own makeshift father figure dying, refusing him the gift of her mercy. And, in the Hand's Tower, Tyrion Lannister had his own day of reckoning, a confrontation with his father during which Joffrey's crossbow sung one final time.
This has not been a flaw-free season - there have been some (much discussed) plot missteps and it's hard not to feel that a slightly longer season would have allowed for more relaxed storytelling and solved some of the pacing issues - but when Game of Thrones gets it right few other shows can touch it.
Tonight's episode was one of those times. As is always the case in the season finale we checked in on a lot of storylines and yet none of those moments seemed wasted - even the scenes with Dany, which I was initially wary of, packed a slowly devastating punch, first when she saw the results of Drogon's hunger and secondly when she locked her "children" away, sorrow written across her face.
Similarly the worst moment of an episode filled with terrible moments came when Tyrion sat by the body of the woman he had once loved and murmured "Sorry". For four seasons he has been in many ways an avatar for the audience; we know Tyrion is cynical and a political pragmatist, but underneath the wit and one-liners we have clung to the idea that he is essentially good.
The murder of Shae challenges that notion - and Tyrion himself is aware of that fact. We understand how Tywin's death happens. This is a man who has belittled and betrayed his son for most of his life and who in his arrogance fails to take him seriously even when there's a crossbow involved, but Shae's murder represents a line crossed. Yes, you can make a case for an element of self-preservation and that it was necessary to stop Shae raising the alarm, but I think it's made quite clear that Tyrion does what he does because of a combination of love, hatred, self-loathing and despair. There's a moment when he could stop but he chooses not to. Hence the whispered sorrow and the hatred for Tywin, who once again brands Shae nothing more than a whore.
'The first men called us the children but we were born long before them'
The scenes with Bran and co are the most difficult to pull off - like Dany in Meereen they are increasingly apart from the rest of the action, plus there's a strong supernatural element. But it's clear that Benioff and Weiss are increasingly confident in taking risks with George RR Martin's source material, and that those risks largely work. Thus we said goodbye to Jojen Reed, who hasn't really looked well since the brief sojourn at Craster's Keep. At least he managed to get out a last warning to Bran before being brutally stabbed to death by ice zombies, and thankfully for all, he was incinerated even as his eyes began to turn blue. The ice zombies themselves were a little bit Evil Dead (although as a fan of Bruce Campbell I don't entirely hate that) but Meera's near-paralysing grief as her brother lay dying in her arms was beautifully played by Ellie Kendrick. The meeting with the spooky children and the even more spooky three-eyed raven left me interested where this storyline is going next.
'It's customary to kneel when surrendering to a king'
The other big news happened up at The Wall, where the arrival of Stannis, who has used the Iron Bank's money not to march on King's Landing but to head North to fight against the creatures beyond The Wall, halted Jon's suicidal assassination attempt. And thank goodness somebody has turned up because it's not looking good up there - Mance was clearly telling the truth when he told Jon "we're here to hide behind your wall" while the Night Watch are severely depleted. I can't, however, see this being easy next season - what with the Free Folk being so free and Stannis being so rigid. I would also be worried if I were Jon Snow. That look Melisandre gave him behind the flames was more than a little bit interested.
Additional thoughts
I was genuinely moved as Jon built his funeral pyre for Ygritte. The scene between him and Tormond was beautifully done, as was Tormond's eulogy: "She belongs in the North, the real North, do you understand me?"
Bran's warging into Hodder makes me uncomfortable. Yes, he's saving the day but there's something unpleasant about taking over another person's body in that way.
Things aren't looking good for Jaime next season - as a betting woman I'd say that it's unlikely people (for which read Cersei) are going to be terribly happy when they find out he let Tyrion go free.
The clash between Brienne and Sandor was the best of the season, both a showcase for two very different fighting methods and an acknowledgement that the reality of combat is you have to fight dirty to win.
The scene between Brienne and Arya was also wonderfully done; I actually screamed when Brienne said: "You're Arya Stark."
Book readers I know you probably expected a different ending but let's not discuss that here. Personally, I loved the episode's final scenes with Varys, the man who has always served the realm, looking sadly at King's Landing as he chose Tyrion and exile and Arya saying her own goodbyes from the prow of a Braavosi ship.
Violence count
One abortive assassination attempt and several dead wildings cut down by Stannis's army, one little girl burned to death by dragons, one battle against ice zombies resulting in the death of Jojen Reed; one brutal match-up between Sandor Clegane and Brienne of Tarth resulting in a battered Brienne and a dying Sandor, and Tyrion Lannister's day of reckoning resulting in the strangulation of Shae and the death by crossbow of Tywin Lannister.
Random Brit of the week
Who was that all-seeing wise man dispensing advice to Bran and co from the bowels of his heart tree? Why, it was Struan Rodger who many of you might recall as the voice of the Face of Boe but who will always be Eric Liddell's coach in Chariots of Fire to me.
So, another season comes to a close. What did you think? Is Dany doomed after chaining her dragons? Just what does Melisandre have planned for Jon? What next for Tyrion and Arya as they head off to pastures new? Most importantly, with Tywin dead and Varys gone does that leave Cersei, as Queen Regent, in charge? And if so should we all be very scared indeed? Finally a big thank you to everyone who posts on this blog - you've all been fantastic and your contributions much appreciated. See you next year, which cannot come soon enough ...
