Domestic Spying Revelation Could Be Devastating For The Obama White House


The Obama administration will be bracing itself for a torrent of hostile questions this morning following the apparent revelation that the National Security Agency has been data-mining the phone records of tens of millions of ordinary Americans.
 
Not to be confused with eaves-dropping, or bugging the phones of those suspected of conspiring to commit a terrorist or criminal offence, the top secret court order published by The Guardian appears to show that the NSA has been trawling the anonymous 'metadata' of potentially billions of phone-calls.
 
On the one hand, Americans might take comfort that the 'internals' of their phone conversations - ie the voices themselves - are not being routinely recorded, but on the other, it seems from this leak that potentially everyone with a phone is under some form of surveillance in the USA.
 
Studies have shown that while anonymous, the 'metadata' - records of location data, call duration, unique identifiers - can provide a surprising amount of information, surprisingly quickly when zeroed in on by investigators.
 
For Mr Obama- a president who prided himself on his liberal credentials - this leak is a potentially devastating revelation since it exposes him to attack on two fronts - from both the libertarian Right and the liberal Left.
 
Already the administration has been hammered over its aggressive prosecution of leakers, including what appeared to be an attempt to criminalise a Fox News journalist, James Rosen, for working a source to obtain a leak from the State Department about North Korea.
 
That story caused the New York Times - usually a reliable friend of the Obama administration - to write a seething editorial accusing the Department of Justice of over-reaching, and using its powers to send a "chilling" message to the media.
 
It is not clear how wide the NSA data-mining project goes, it's effectiveness as a counter-terrorism tool in identifying potential terrorist or criminal cells or - indeed - whether it has been used for any other purposes.
 
It appears from previous reports that the NSA's data-mining operation is not new, and has long been suspected - but this is the first clear-cut proof, in the shape of a highly unusual leak from the secretive Foreign Intelligence Service Court (Fisa), that the practice is occurring.
 
A report in USA Today newspaper from 2006, quoting anonymous intelligence officials, alleged that the NSA been "secretly collecting the phone call records of tens of millions of Americans" and that the agency was using the data to "analyze calling patterns in an effort to detect terrorist activity".
 
Since September 11 and the passing of the 2001 Patriot Act, the American public has accepted a great deal of inconvenience and intrusion in the name of national security. The publication of this court order will re-open the debate on how far the security services' writ should run.
 
Politically, the difficulty for Mr Obama is that even if the NSA is actually doing nothing different than it did for George W Bush, the American public - particularly on the liberal left - had believed that Mr Obama's administration represented a fundamental departure from the excesses of the Bush years.
 
Now, with the continued debate over the use of drones, the failure to close Guantanamo, the ultra-aggressive prosecution of leaks even to the point, perhaps, of muzzling a free press - the questions from the public and the media are starting to weigh down on the Obama White House.
 
Already last night, within hours of publication, civil liberties groups who have long warned about the extent of secret surveillance, were jumping on the revelations.
 
"This confirms what we had long suspected," says Cindy Cohn, an attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), a civil liberties organization that has accused the government of operating a secret dragnet surveillance program told the Washington Post.
 
"I don't think Congress thought it was authorizing dragnet surveillance" when it passed the Patriot Act, Ms Cohn said, "I don't think Americans think that's OK. I would be shocked if the majority of Congressmen thought it's okay." Over the next few days and weeks, expect a fierce and polarizing debate over just what Americans do feel is acceptable, in the name of their national security.




Obama and the NSA surveillance state: Who's watching the watchers?


 
By JOEL CONNELLY, SEATTLEPI.COM STAFF
 
Published 8:43 pm, Friday, June 7, 2013 


Why is it that Democratic presidents, after promising a more open, transparent White House and greater respect for Americans' individual rights, always end up strengthening the national security state and protecting its secrecy?
 
President Obama, on Friday, defended the vast surveillance network of the National Security Agency, using jargon and themes adapted from his Republican predecessors:  Trust us. If you only knew what we knew.  The people who need to know are in the know.
 
"With respect to all these programs, the relevant intelligence committees are fully briefed on these programs," said Obama.  "These are programs that have been authorized by broad bipartisan majorities repeatedly since 2006."
 
The nation's first African-American president, lampooned by the right for once working as a community organizer,  sounded like a Cold War-vintage Ivy League blueblood.

Interestingly, refreshingly, Northwest senators are showing concern over the feds' broad-scale gathering of data.   Our region is no less concerned with national security, but we are a corner of the country that puts a high value on privacy. The government has no business intercepting our emails, checking our cell phone records or intruding in our bedrooms.
 
"Trust us!" doesn't cut it either. Not with the vast, secret powers bestowed under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.  Not with false claims with which the national security state has sent us to war, from Vietnam to Iraq.
 
"The watchers have to be watched," Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., said on Friday.  Added Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska:  "Our investment in protecting American lives and liberties simultaneously is not a blank check."
 
Sens. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Mark Udall, D-Colo., warned Attorney General Eric Holder in a letter last year:  "We believe most Americans would be stunned to learn the details of . . . these secret court opinions.  As we see it, there is now a significant gap between what most Americans think the law allows and what the government secretly claims the law shows."
 
After hearing a big dose of "Trust us!" from Obama on Friday -- "I know the people who are involved in these programs, they operate like professionals.  And these things are very narrowly circumscribed" -- we need to ask again why the 44th president is so wedded to the national security state.
 
Three reasons:
 
-- Security trumps liberty, at least when Americans are given that stark choice.  Our government leaders prefer to keep the choice that way.  It is a key to accruing power and marginalizing those who question authority.
 
A late-2010 ABC News/Washington Post poll found 68 percent wanting the government to go after possible terrorist threats, even if it means pushing on personal privacy, versus just 26 percent who felt strongly that privacy should be protected.
 
-- Authority defends its secrecy with smoke and mirrors.  Asked if NSA phone record snooping had sniffed out terrorist attacks, Senate Intelligence Committee Chair Dianne Feinstein replied:  "It has, but that's classified."  House counterpart Rep. Mike Rogers, R-Mich., said terrorist acts have been thwarted "within the last few years."
 
On NSA surveillance, Obama has found himself defended by the likes of Karl Rove and the Wall Street Journal editorial page.
 
-- Obama puts security protection over and above what he calls "constitutional issues."  He is acutely aware of Republicans' old saw that Democrats are "soft" on national defense.  It's still raised these days as Obama's 2008 foe John McCain tries to get us into new wars.
 
Obama was up front on Friday:  "When I came into this office, I made two commitments that are more important than any commitment I made:  Number one, to keep the American people safe; and number two, to uphold the Constitution." 
 
He said it loud and clear.  National security ranks first. Obama talks of "balance" and protecting civil liberties and the right to privacy.  Standing against that, however, is the War on Terror apparatus, its virtually unlimited scope, and the fact that it operates in the shadows.
 
Cantwell, in an interview Friday, asked:
 
"If you collect broad data, how can you be assured it won't come out at some point?  We live in an information age.  You have to create bright, defined lines that people must not cross."
 
Along with a bevy of other senators, from conservative Rand Paul to liberal Wyden and fellow Oregon Sen. Jeff Merkeley, Cantwell sent a letter last summer to NSA chief James Clapper, responding to his demands for renewal of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
 
"It is incumbent upon Congress to ensure that the government does not use these new authorities to deliberately spy on American citizens," they declared.
 
Brave words, but . . . Congress has reauthorized the USA Patriot Act and FISA, which convey vast surveillance authority to the National Security Agency.
 
On Friday, Obama declared:  "I welcome this debate.  And I think it's healthy for our democracy.  I think it's a sign of maturity, because probably five years ago, six years ago, we might not have been having this debate."
 
The underlying message, however, is clear.  The debate will neither curtail the vast reach of the snoopers, nor bring any transparency or accountability to the NSA.  Secret courts will secretly give the green light.  The president will see himself first and foremost as "commander in chief."
 
Balance?  No way.  The national security state goes about its business unchecked.  The watchers will not be watched.
