Japan-China-U.S. Relations Reach New Lows While Arms Budgets Grow
 

Historians will write volumes about the momentous geopolitical and military/strategic changes happening now

in Northeast, East, and Southeast Asia.  We have the luck (or will it be misfortune?) to be living them.

Items from the past few weeks and days:
oOn December 5 as Vice President Joe Biden was meeting in Beijing Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, and a day after Biden's exceptional five hour closed door meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping (during which the topic was "operationalizing a new type of great power relationship"), the USS Cowpens guided missile cruiser was forced to take evasive maneuvers to avoid colliding with a warship accompanying the Chinese aircraft carrier Liaoning in the South China Sea. The Chinese ship had positioned itself in the Cowpens' course.
oYesterday, the Chinese government went public in accusing the U.S. Navy of "harassing" Chinese naval vessels. Meanwhile, Chinese jet fighters will begin routinely "scrambling" to intercept U.S. and Japanese military surveillance aircraft that have heretofore operated extensively within what is now the Chinese air defense identification zone (ADIZ).
o In Tokyo meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Abe Shinzo on December 2-3, Vice President Joe Biden pushed for Tokyo's approval for building a massive new U.S. airbase in Okinawa, taking advantage of the need to relocate (or close) the cramped and dangerous Futenma U.S. Marine station. The U.S. Department of Defense has informally told Japan there should be no restrictions on the base's use.
oResponding to U.S. pressure, the Abe government has deployed an array of carrots and sticks to induce Okinawa governor Nakaima to approve beginning work for the new base.  An Asahi Shimbun poll of voters in Okinawa prefecture published December 17 found that only 22% want Nakaima to approve the work, while 64% want him to reject it.  Nakaima is expected to consent this week or next.
oLast week Japan established a new National Security Council-patterned on the U.S. NSC-within the Prime Minister's office and appointed its first head.
oToday (December 17) the Abe Cabinet and the new NSC approved a ten year National Security Strategy (NSS) and medium term (FY2014-18) force structure and weapons procurement plan that clearly posits threats to Japanese territory from China, as well as missile attacks from North Korea.
oThe NSS sets out a new "combined mobile defense" concept in place of the "active defense" concept of the strategy adopted under the Democratic Party of Japan government in 2010. It conceives of multiple and varied threats requiring coordinated response from Japan's air, land, and navy forces. Against attacks to remote islands (read: Senkaku/Diaoyus) it establishes a new amphibious attack and recovery force modeled on the U.S. Marines.
o Japan will augment forces with more amphibious attack vehicles, ships, and aircraft.  The ten year NSS calls for force levels of a 159,000 man army, wielding 300 tanks; a navy with 54 warships, 22 submarines, and 170 naval attack aircraft; and an air force with 360 attack aircraft including 280 jet fighters.
oThe medium term plan goals are, for the army, 99 armored attack vehicles, 17 Osprey multi-mission tilt-rotor vertical take-off and landing aircraft built by Boeing BA +0.86% (NYSE:BA), and 52 amphibious vehicles; for the navy, 2 Lockheed Martin LMT +0.57% (NYSE:LMT)-built Aegis Weapons System equipped frigates, and 23 P1 partol aircraft; for the air forces new acquisitions will be 28 F35 fighters (also produced by Lockheed Martin), ten C2 transport planes, four new model early warning aircraft, and three new model inflight refueling aircraft.  A joint service will operate three new Global Hawk drones manufactures by Northrup Grumman (NYSE:NOC).  The procurement budget for five years is set at roughly JPY 24 trillion (USD 235 billion).

(For the record, as stated below in reply to the comment from Tim Ferguson, I do not consider augmentation of Japan's defenses to be a bad thing.  On the contrary, the interests of both Japan and the United States-and, indeed, of China-will be best served when Japan becomes fully self-sufficient in its defense.  This would help to justify the effective scrapping of the U.S.-Japan alliance, which will be necessary within a viable, stable U.S.-China  "new style great power relationship.")
oWhile many world leaders gathered in Johannesburg for the Mandela funeral, Prime Minister Abe hosted in Tokyo leaders of the ten ASEAN countries at a special Japan-ASEAN summit. Abe seized the occasion to propound "China threat" themes. The joint meeting statement issued December 14 highlighted concern for "maritime security and safety, freedom of navigation, unimpeded commerce, exercise of self-restraint and resolution of disputes by peaceful means, in accordance with universally recognized principles of international law."
o Of equal or greater interest to the ASEAN leaders (not including Thai prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra who understandably demurred so as to remain in Bangkok and deal with the throngs of demonstrators calling for her resignation) was Abe's pledge of JPY 2 trillion (USD 19.5 billion) of official development assistance over the next five years. In the past year Abe has implemented what might be called a Japanese "pivot" to Southeast Asia in Japan's pursuit of economic engagement and competitive positioning. The competitor would be China.
oIn addition to the above, we have the dramatic, almost surreal, events in North Korea, with Kim Jong Un adopting the style (if not mentality) of 19th century emperors, at whose pleasure courtiers' lives depended, having his uncle-in-law, Jang Song Thaek, considered the second most powerful man in the country, executed for treason. The bloody purge of Jang's associates will surely continue. Of great importance was Jang's former role has the main counterpart and contact with the Pyongyang regime for China. China's influence seems now to have been critically degraded.

Becoming prime minister in 2006 after several years of icy political relations between China and Japan under governments headed by Koizumi Junichiro, Abe took the initiative to travel to Beijing in repair the relationship. He was well received by Hu Jintao. Out of the visit came a joint declaration setting out a framework and principles for positive, constructive, mutually beneficial Japan-China relations.

One of the key elements of this framework as acceptance of the principle or believe that China is not a threat to Japan.

From the words and deeds of Japan, China, the U.S. and others over the past month, we have little choice but to admit that past agreements and understandings are null and void. We are entering uncharted and very dangerous territory.

I will end with a comment on the USS Cowpens incident.  Some months ago, I believe at the Sunnylands Summit, Chinese president Xi proffered to President Obama the commonsensical and correct notion that "the Pacific Ocean is wide enough" for both the U.S. and China. The incident in the South China Sea resulted from Chinese impatience with the close in intelligence-gathering and surveillance shadowing of its ships by the USS Cowpens and other U.S. naval vessels. U.S. naval protests of having been in "international waters" notwithstanding, the word "harassment" is not out of place in describing the Cowpens' actions-the kind of actions developed during the Cold War against Soviet ships. We see from this that the spirit of what President Xi said-that the U.S. and China can and should coexist on the high seas without trying to intimidate or dominate the other-seems to have been lost on the Pentagon, if not on its commander-in-chief, President Obama. Until Washington gets, reads, and acts on "the memo"-i.e., on the substance of what will needed for a successful "new type of great power relationship"-expect many more of these incidents.



US does not recognize China air defense zone 



MANILA, Philippines - Washington does not recognize China's air defense identification zone over the East China Sea, visiting US Secretary of State John Kerry said yesterday.

"The United States does not recognize that zone and does not accept it," Kerry said during a news conference yesterday with Foreign Affairs Secretary Albert del Rosario.

"The zone should not be implemented and China should refrain from taking similar unilateral actions, particularly in the South China Sea," he said.

He also announced $40 million in new assistance in part to help the Philippines protect its territorial waters amid rising tensions with China even as he urged nations involved to "lower the intensity."

The money, from a US program known as the Global Security Contingency Fund, will be spent over three years and will be split between improving the Philippine Coast Guard's maritime security abilities and boosting counterterrorism capacity for the Philippines National Police in Mindanao, where Washington has also backed a decade-long Philippine government campaign against al-Qaeda-linked local militants.

The new aid is intended to complement a $32.5-million assistance package, which Kerry announced Monday in Vietnam, that will help Southeast Asian nations protect their territorial waters. Up to $18 million of that money will go to provide the Vietnamese Coast Guard with five new fast patrol boats.



Both Vietnam and the Philippines have competing claims with China over territory in the West Philippine Sea and South China Sea and are concerned with growing Chinese assertiveness after Beijing's unilateral declaration of the air defense zone.

"China, in doing this, effectively is attempting to transform an air zone into its own domestic airspace, and we think that this could lead to compromising freedom of flight, in terms of civil aviation, and also compromise safety and security of affected nations," Del Rosario said.

If China establishes an air defense zone in the West Philippine Sea or South China Sea, Del Rosario said, "that for us will be a problem."

Kerry urged all parties to "avoid provocations" that could potentially escalate into conflict. "We should be long past the time of unilateral assertion and the use of coercion to back up that assertion," he said.

Kerry stressed the need for negotiated resolutions to the disputes.

"The United States will stand with our friends in this region who are asserting their efforts through that kind of legal, peaceful process," he said.

"I hope that ultimately the leaders in China will see the wisdom of engaging," he added.

Press Secretary Herminio Coloma Jr. said Kerry's visit to Manila provided a chance for the Philippines and the US to broaden cooperation on various fronts - from trade to security cooperation, diplomatic ties, to humanitarian and disaster response cooperation.

"The visit presents an opportunity for the two countries to discuss the broadening of economic and security cooperation, strengthening of people-to-people ties and humanitarian assistance and disaster response and cooperation on regional issues," Coloma said.

Kerry was scheduled to pay a courtesy call on President Aquino at Malaca?ang.

The Philippines lost control of Panatag Shoal last year after a standoff with China. The US is also helping equip the Philippines with ships and radar, and is also in negotiations with Manila to increase American military presence in the country.

However, officials have stressed they have no plans to reopen former military bases.

Kerry's announcements in the Philippines and Vietnam are almost certain to anger Beijing, which bristles at what it sees as US interference in areas it views as China's "core interest."

Beijing looks dimly on Washington's push to increase US military presence and strengthen its alliances in Asia as it ends a decade of war in Iraq and Afghanistan, calling it an attempt to contain China.

In a reminder of the high stakes in play, US and Chinese naval vessels came close to colliding in the South China Sea on Dec. 5, the most serious incident between the two navies since 2009.

The US Pacific Fleet said Saturday that the USS Cowpens was operating in international waters and had to maneuver to avoid hitting China's lone aircraft carrier.

The Liaoning, a symbol of China's ambition to develop a navy that operates farther from its own shores, only entered service last year and was on its first sea trials in the South China Sea.

Beijing has not formally commented on the incident, but the state-run Global Times newspaper reported Monday that the US ship had first harassed the Liaoning and its group of support ships, getting too close to a Chinese naval drill and entering within 30 miles of the Chinese fleet's "inner defense layer."

As China expands its navy's reach and starts to challenge decades of American military predominance in the region, it is becoming more common for vessels of the two nations to operate in close proximity.

The Obama administration has made it a priority to seek closer military cooperation with China to prevent misunderstandings that could spark a clash - part of a broader push to foster friendly ties between the established world power and the emerging one.

Beijing's declaration of the East China Sea air defense identification zone was a setback, and has ratcheted up tensions with Japan over disputed islands within that zone. All aircraft entering the zone must notify Chinese authorities beforehand, and China has said it would take unspecified defensive measures against those that don't comply.

The US, Japan and South Korea have said they will not honor the new zone, and in a show of defiance soon after China announced it, the US flew two B-52 bombers through the area.

Kerry is in the Philippines on the last leg of a trip to the Middle East and Asia. Before heading for home today he will visit Tacloban, which was hard hit by last month's Super Typhoon Yolanda.

The US was a major contributor of relief after the disaster and Kerry is expected to announce additional support during a brief inspection tour of the storm-ravaged area.

He called off his original scheduled visit to the country in October due to the threat of another typhoon before Yolanda. AP, Delon Porcalla
