Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

Royal Liverpool a different kind of links course | Golf | More | Toronto Sun
Tight fairways, a lush golf course ... and rough you could hide from your wife in.
Is this the U.S. Open or the Open Championship? It's a good thing the USGA gave golf fans a brown and sandy Pinehurst No. 2 at the season's second major because we might not see any brown this week at the third.
The first round at Royal Liverpool on Thursday saw a golf course fit to be tamed by a North American style of golf. Soft fairways allowed players to position their tee shots without fear of rolling into unknown trouble while the lack of wind, coupled with receptive greens, meant target practice for the world's best.
Of course, the beauty of linksland is that this could all change at the drop of a hat.
Royal Liverpool, which actually is not in Liverpool and is more frequently called Hoylake, is a great golf course to study while you watch. Most Canadian golf fans imagine links golf courses as a place where you hit blind tee shots to massive fairways and hope to get a good bounce along the way. A place where, unless you have a good caddy or 20 years of course knowledge, you might as well just hit and hope.
This year's Open Championship course, with its narrow fairways, relatively flat terrain and very particular playing angles is influenced less by luck or "the rub of the green" than courses such as St. Andrews or Carnoustie. Hoylake is still a classic links course, just one that takes a little of the randomness out of the battle.
Off the tee, Hoylake demands the precision to stay out of the long grass and the restraint to stay short of the fairway pot bunkers. Approach shots are often dictated by the dramatic angles of the design and challenged by difficult visuals with players asked to hit their ball over out-of-bound sareas at times. Once on the green, don't expect to see players having panic attacks as you might at the U.S. Open. The green speeds at Hoylake are much more manageable and viewers probably will be surprised to see how hard the pros have to hit their putts. The undulations are also much more manageable, so players can take legitimate runs at 25-35 foot putts.
On Thursday, the greens were so flat around some of the holes that players seemed to be playing breaks that weren't there because they couldn't believe how straight the putt was.
There is a reason for the rather benign putting surfaces. When the wind roars off the sea, everything changes. If they had Pinehurst No. 2's greens at Royal Liverpool, they would need to stop play every other hour, five times a week because the balls would be blowing off the putting surfaces.
North American golf fans have heard plenty about the "mighty wind" at Hoylake, but most are still waiting to see it. The only time the Open had been there in the previous 45 years was in 2006 when Tiger Woods won in unusually calm conditions. After Round 1 of this year's Open, fans are still waiting.
What makes the wind so difficult to manage at Royal Liverpool is that not only is it fierce, not only does it seem to frequently change direction, but the course is not routed like a normal links course. Most seaside courses have the front nine going out from the clubhouse and the back nine coming in, which allows golfers to get used to wind patterns. This golf course is routed like a puzzle, going every which way, so not only is the wind changing direction, so are you.
Good luck with that.
If you've ever been to a great restaurant where they use simple ingredients to make a world-class dish, that's Hoylake. It's not a fancy, tricked-up golf course. It's a simple, time-tested design that waits for Mother Nature to add the right spices.
Looking at the weekend forecast, she finally seems to be cooking something up.
INSIDE OUT
The most distinctive hazard at Hoylake is the internal out-of-bounds that come strongly into play on the third and 18th hole.
Internal OB on a golf course has long been bashed by critics as a design flaw and Royal Liverpool has not been safe from this criticism. The argument is that out of bounds should be used only to mark the border of the course's property. At Hoylake, the internal OB is normally guarding the practice area, although during the Open Championship it is guarding spectator and corporate tents.
Although the OB at Hoylake does add intrigue and strategy to the course, I would not like to be staring over a hedge (Sorry, make that a "cop") at my ball resting on a patch of grass and not be allowed to play it as it lies, even though it's in the middle of the course.
GIMME A HIGH 5
A major championship venue with four par 5s is good by me. Unless somebody (I'm looking at you, Rory) runs away with the tournament, Hoylake seems to be set up nicely for an exciting Sunday.
All four par 5s are reachable in two depending on the wind and the drama will last right to the end at the closing hole. The BMW Championship at Wentworth shows how much drama a par-5 18th hole can bring to a tournament. If this year's Open Championship comes down to the 72nd hole, there will be very few complaints.
STRIKE THAT
The common thought when the wind blows is to keep the ball low and get it on the ground. Tom Watson has made a career of proving that world-class ball-striking is just as effective as knock-down shots in high winds.
If the wind at Hoylake picks up this weekend, I look to the best ball strikers for my winner. Some players whose iron shots make that perfect sound are Jason Dufner, Sergio Garcia and Louis Oosthuizen. Dare I say that Graham DeLaet also fits this description and shouldn't be overlooked when the wind blows. Hoylake's manageable greens also could help DeLaet this week. Fingers crossed.
TEES AND BALL MARKERS
Matteo Manassero is the most overlooked young gun in the world. The 21-year-old has won four times on the European Tour and this week's Open Championship is already the 13th major he has played in despite being born in 1993 ... As good as Adam Scott is playing, if the wind blows hard, I don't like the chances of anybody using a long putter ... The greatest living sportswriter, Dan Jenkins, has ended his consecutive major championship streak at 179. Like most octogenarians he broke the news on Twitter: "I'll be tweeting Hoylake from Fort Worth, where we have reliable plumbing, bath towels bigger than a wash cloth, and food I can identify." The last major Jenkins missed was the 1969 Open Championship at Royal Lytham. He plans to start a new streak at next month's the PGA Championship at Valhalla in Kentucky. It will be his 223rd major.
