Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

All eyes on Woods as Open starts
Thu, 17 Jul 2014 8:28 AM
Tiger Woods chips a shot from a bunker at the Royal Liverpool Golf Course in Hoylake, north west England. AFP PHOTO
England's former Ryder Cup star David Howell got the 143rd British Open underway just after the crack of dawn at Royal Liverpool Golf Club on Thursday with all eyes early on riveted on a "fit again" Tiger Woods.
The player who has dominated world golf over the last 17 years with 14 major wins comes into Hoylake at a crucial juncture in his stupendous career.
The latest in a succession of swing-stress related injuries over the last few years saw him revert to back surgery in late March to relieve a pain that left him at times unable even to get out of bed.
Woods, 18 months shy of his 40th birthday, says that for the first time in years he is pain free and ready to go as he once again hones in on his lifelong obsession of matching and finally surpassing the all-time major record of 18 wins held by Jack Nicklaus since 1986.
But some believe that the American has come back too soon both on the physical and the psychological level.
The verdict could be quick in coming on Thursday as Woods has an early start at 9:04am local time (0804GMT) in the company of Argentine veteran Angel Cabrera and Sweden's world number two Henrik Stenson.
The last time Woods played a shot at Hoylake was eight years ago as he sunk the winning putt that brought him the 12th of his majors and one of the finest triumphs of his career, coming as it did just a few weeks after the death of his father Earl.
But much water has gone under the bridge since then as Woods readily admits.
"My life is very different than what it was then," was his own stark assessment of the eight years that separates his two outings at Hoylake.
Woods is the main story as ever, but there are several intriguing sub-plots that look set to illuminate what is being billed as one of the most open Opens of recent times.
Phil Mickelson is the defending champion at 44, Adam Scott seeks to bury the agony of two near misses in the last two years and emulate his boyhood hero Greg Norman, the last Australian to win the Open Championship 21 years ago and Rory McIlroy wants to finally come good in the tournament after six frustrating attempts.
Apart from Woods and Mickelson, the American challenge is led by world number four Bubba Watson and number five Matt Kuchar, while second ranked Stenson is out to become the first Swede and the first Scandinavian to lift the Claret Jug.
US Open winner Martin Kaymer, meanwhile, says that Germany's World Cup triumph in Brazil could be the springboard he needs to pull off a rare Open double.
McIlroy has a morning start two groups after Woods, while Mickleson, Scott, Watson and the highly-fancied Justin Rose all have afternoon start times.
AFP
