Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

The Open Championship - Not even wild pheasant can put leader McIlroy off his game - Yahoo Eurosport UK
The young Northern Irishman banished all thoughts of 'freaky Fridays', the term used to describe his penchant for second-round collapses, by posting a second successive six-under-par 66 for a 12-under total of 132.
Not even a bird wandering across the eighth green could put him off the task in hand as he gained another shot on his rivals at the 431-yard hole.
"I haven't run into that before on a golf course," McIlroy told reporters after moving four strokes clear of big-hitting American Dustin Johnson.
"I might have had a swan or a duck or geese or something but never a pheasant. It didn't put me off. I was able to regrip and hole the putt for birdie so it was fine."
McIlroy, bidding to add to his collection of two major titles after winning the 2011 U.S. Open and 2012 US PGA Championship, started the second day with a one-shot lead and said he was almost in auto pilot all the way round.
"I don't know if I can describe it," he added. "It's just like I have an inner peace on the golf course.
"I'm very comfortable in this position, very comfortable doing what I'm doing right now. I wish I could get into it more often.
"I think it's a combination of confidence...being mentally strong, mentally aware of everything."
McIlroy said it helped to have the Royal Liverpool crowds on his side.
"You try and enjoy every minute of it even if sometimes it feels like a bit of a grind and you're working extremely hard to keep it together," he explained.
"The atmosphere out there is incredible. To be able to play in front of crowds like this, you have to enjoy it.
"I felt a lot of great support. It's fantastic to be able to be in this position in front of home fans."
McIlroy made an errant start with a bogey at the first but seven birdies in the last 14 holes carried him clear of the chasing pack.
The world number eight said the key to his display was his tee shots.
"Driving is the foundation to any golf game," added McIlroy. "If my driving is there everything else sort of feeds off that.
"How many drivers did I hit today? I hit six so maybe a couple more than yesterday."
