Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

Rory McIlroy repeats 66 to keep lead
Updated: July 18, 2014, 4:49 PM ET
Associated Press
HOYLAKE, England -- Rory McIlroy cast aside any talk of those second-round doldrums with a performance at Royal Liverpool that threatened to turn this into another major championship runaway.
As for Tiger Woods, he was fortunate just to make the cut at the Open Championship.
Any hopes of a duel between the guy who once ruled golf and the player most likely to take his place as the face of the game quickly faded Friday as McIlroy romped to a 6-under 66 that gave him a commanding lead heading to the weekend.
More from ESPN.com
Rory McIlroy put the "freaky Friday" talk to rest after his 6-under 66 to lead the Open Championship by 4 shots, writes ESPN.com's Gene Wojciechowski. Story
This is starting to look like his first two major victories, both by eight shots, at the 2011 U.S. Open and the 2012 PGA Championship.
"I feel like I just have an inner peace on the golf course," McIlroy said. "I very comfortable in this position. I'm very comfortable doing what I'm doing right now. It's hard to describe. I wish I could get into it more often."
Woods used to know that feeling.
Not on this day. In his first major of the year after undergoing back surgery, Woods showed his rust by struggling to a 77, his worst round at the Open Championship since that 81 at stormy Muirfield in 2002. A triple-bogey at the 17th nearly sent him home for the weekend, but a delicate chip over a pot bunker at the 18th set up a 6-foot putt that gave him his only birdie of the day.
It was just enough to keep him around for the weekend.
He's got almost no chance of catching McIlroy, trailing the leader by a whopping 14 shots, though he did bring up Paul Lawrie rallying from 10 shots down on the final day to catch Jean Van de Velde at Carnoustie in 1999.
Of course, that would require McIlroy falling apart the way Van de Velde did.
What are the chances of that?
"I'm pretty far back," Woods conceded. "Hopefully I can play well and give myself a shot going into the back nine on Sunday."
[+] Enlarge	Stuart Franklin/Getty ImagesThrough two rounds, Rory McIlroy birdied six of the eight par-5s at Royal Liverpool. That helped give the Northern Irishman a 4-shot lead through 36 holes of the Open Championship.
McIlroy's matching 66s gave him a 36-hole total of 12-under 132 -- the same score that Woods posted at the midway point of his last Open victory in 2006, at this very same course along the Irish Sea.
There were no more questions about the strangest quirk in McIlroy's year -- a mysterious run of high scores in the second round, which no one could explain but had admittedly gotten in his head.
The 25-year-old from Northern Ireland wiped those thoughts away by the time he went out for an afternoon round at Hoylake, where the weather again worked in favor of his end of the draw. Playing early on Thursday, McIlroy benefited from pristine conditions. On Friday, the wind howled in the morning but settled after lunchtime, taking away the primary defense of a links course.
Through the first two rounds, McIlroy has made only one bogey -- at the first hole Friday. That was long forgotten by the time he closed with three easy-as-can-be birdies over the final four holes, looking as though he barely broke a sweat on a sunny, sticky day.
"It is not a surprise what Rory is doing," Woods said. "He plays pretty aggressively to begin with, and when he is going he can get it going pretty good."
Dustin Johnson was McIlroy's closest challenger, claiming a spot in Saturday's last group with the best round of the tournament so far, a 65 that left him at 136.
No one else was closer than six shots, though there's plenty of star power in the group at 138 with former Masters champion Charl Schwartzel, young gun Rickie Fowler and perennial major challenger Sergio Garcia, still seeking the signature win of his career after all these years.
Worried about an approaching storm that is forecast to strike Royal Liverpool on Saturday afternoon, the R&A announced it will have players tee off from both the first and 10th holes for the first time in the history of golf's oldest major.
McIlroy, who had plenty of birdies on his card, had another that wanted to horn in on the action. As McIlroy lined up a birdie putt on the eighth green, a pheasant strolled into his path. He shooed it away with help from his caddie -- and rolled the ball right into the cup.
"I haven't run into that before on the golf course," McIlroy said. "I might have had a swan or a duck or a geese or something. Never a pheasant. But it was nice. It didn't put me off."
Nothing does, it seems.
Copyright 2014 by The Associated Press
