Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

Farrell Evans hands out his grades for Round 1 of the Open Championship. Story
He wasn't the only Italian off to an encouraging start. Brothers Edoardo and Francesco Molinari opened with matching 68s.
"I saw the leaderboard," said Francesco, the younger of the siblings. "But it's a tough course, so you have to focus on what you are doing rather than the others are doing -- even if it's your brother."
Also at 68 were Spain's Sergio Garcia and a pair of Americans, Jim Furyk and Brooks Koepka. Another shot back, Woods was joined at 69 by countrymen Rickie Fowler, Jimmy Walker and Boo Weekley; Japan's Hideki Matsuyama, Koumei Oda and Yoshinobu Tsukada; Sweden's Robert Karlsson; and Australia's Marc Leishman.
"I didn't play fantastic, but the course is out there to make some birdies on," said Karlsson, who teed off in the first group of the day at 6:25 a.m.
He described the breeze as "tricky," but acknowledged it wasn't much of a defense against those going out in the morning.
"I'll take this tricky," Karlsson said.
The wind picked up through the day, making things tougher for those with afternoon tee times.
Even so, Adam Scott made a run at the leaders, spurred by an eagle at the fifth. The world's top-ranked player staggered a bit coming to the finish but still managed a 68, matching Garcia and company.
Of the top 17 players in the clubhouse, Scott and Weekley were the only ones to tee off in the afternoon.
[+] Enlarge	Tom Pennington/Getty ImagesRory McIlroy continued a run of great starts, opening Thursday's play with a first-round 66.
"We had perfect scoring conditions," McIlroy said. "There were plenty of opportunities to make birdies."
Defending champion Phil Mickelson, who hasn't won since his 2013 victory at Muirfield, was among those who faded late in the day. He shot 74, closing with a bogey after his second shot sailed out of bounds, forcing him to take a cart back to the spot where he struck the ball for a do-over.
Ernie Els really made a mess of things, the tone set when his very first shot struck a fan in the face. Clearly unsettled, the Big Easy missed a putt of less than a foot at No. 1, then sloppily whacked the ball with a backhanded swipe and missed again, making triple-bogey.
Woods has gone six years without a major title and this season was interrupted by back surgery on March 31. He missed the Masters for the first time, and then the U.S. Open, before returning three weeks ago at Congressional. He missed the cut by four shots, though he was happy that he felt no pain.
On Thursday, he shot a 3-under 69.
Woods' threesome included Sweden's Henrik Stenson, who is among four players with a shot at replacing Scott at No. 1 in the world if he wins. The others are Justin Rose, Bubba Watson and Jason Day.
Woods was No. 1 when he took three months off to heal his back. Now he's seventh.
The past three Open champions have all been in their early 40s. Koepka, a 24-year-old American who began his pro career in Europe, wants to end that streak.
"I hope someone in their 20s wins," he said. "I hope it's me."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
