Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

To be fair, Saturday's round was much better than Friday's. Still, Woods made two costly mistakes that prevented his score from being better.
On the par-4 second hole Woods' drive found a pot bunker. He blasted out into the fairway, then a wedge shot spun back off the front of the green. He used putter to get to 4 feet but missed the putt and made double bogey. In three days, Woods is 4 over par on the second.
At the par-4 seventh hole Woods blew his drive right into a nasty gorse bush. They couldn't find his ball, so he trotted back to the tee to hit another shot, but this time it sailed left. He hacked short of the green, hit the next onto the green and two-putted from 40 feet for triple bogey.
Thankfully for Woods, his five birdies on a day where he was out of contention kept the score respectable.
"I'm starting to get the flow of the round, the flow of playing again," he said. "But still I've just made too many mistakes. You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign."
Woods is 3 over par for the championship and tied for 58th place, 19 shots behind leader Rory McIlroy.
- Jay Coffin, Golf Channel
