Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

Tiger Woods shakes off rust during strong start to British Open | British Open |
HOYLAKE, ENGLAND - 	As one of the greatest golfers to ever grace the face of this planet walked off the second green at Royal Liverpool on Thursday, the TV types in the United States must have been shuttering a bit.
Tiger Woods had three-putted for a bogey. Make that two straight bogeys to start his 2014 British Open. A bogey-bogey start.
That doesn't make for great TV. What if Tiger wasn't back? What if his back wasn't back? What if he wasn't around for the weekend? You know how the ratings are when Tiger isn't around? Not great.
"Come on Tiger, works out the kinks," they were probably saying. "Shake off the rust."
Tiger must have been listening.
By the time he walked off the 18th green, Woods was at three-under par. By the time the day was over, he was just three strokes behind leader Rory McIlroy. That's not a bad place to be, especially when you are Tiger.
It's too early to tell how the rest of the tournament will unfold at this seaside course, but at least Woods had done what he has done so many times in the past -- quieted the naysayers.
Many thought the man with 14 majors under his belt wouldn't be able to handle the rigors of a links course after having played just 36 holes of competitive golf in the past four months. Many felt that, perhaps, he hadn't fully recovered from the back surgery that shelved him for so long. He showed them they were wrong.
"It wasn't exactly the greatest of starts, but I turned it around and ground my way around," Woods said. "It felt like, even though I was two over through two, I still had four par-5s to go and I still had a couple of short holes. So, if I played those holes well, and the tough holes even par, I'd be somewhere under par."
He was right. And if it wasn't for a bit of bad luck, Woods could have been minus-5.
A putt lipped out on the par-4 17th after he hit a shot from the right rough to about 20 feet. And on 18, one slid just past the hole after he made a terrific shot out of the left greenside bunker.
The 36 holes Woods had played previously this season came in June at Congressional, where he hosts his own tournament. But he didn't look sharp then, he didn't make the cut. But he said it didn't matter, and it looks as though he was right.
"I'm telling you guys it was so important for me to play at Congressional," Woods said after his round here on Thursday. "The fact that I was able to recover every day, and the fact that I was stronger, more explosive the more days I played, I'm only going to get better from that point. And I'm getting stronger, I'm getting faster, I'm getting more explosive. The ball is starting to travel again. And those are all positive things."
People forget that this is the site where Tiger won in 2006, his 11th major. Where he put together some of the finest links golf in the history of the Open. Maybe he can recapture some of the magic.
But there is a great group of golfers with whom he must contend, both in numbers and in talent.
Just look at the leaderboard. McIlroy at six under, rounding back into the form that sent him to sensational victories at the 2011 U.S. Open and 2012 PGA Championship. He didn't have a blemish on his card on Thursday. Matteo Manassero, the young Italian with so much promise, a stroke behind. And a group of seven golfers, including world No. 1 Adam Scott and the Spaniard, Sergio Garcia, who challenged for the Claret Jug here in 2006, at four under. Then there are Rickie Fowler and Hideki Matsuyama, who are tied with Woods and looking to make a statement on the world stage. And the list goes on.
Woods went around Hoylake on Thursday much as he had done in 2006, not pulling his driver from his bag until the 16th hole, even though the conditions are much different now, the course green and inviting, when before it had been baked hard and fast.
Indeed, it was a great day for golf. Not a cloud in the sky and the breeze not picking up until later in the afternoon. Not surprisingly, the low rounds, save for Scott's, came from the morning draw.
Scott did well to stay with the pack, considering how the breeze had increased and the ground gotten firmer.
"The wind kicked up a bit and the back nine played very tough coming back into it most of the time, and then in and across. And all of those kind of things make it very demanding. But I positioned it off the tee really nice today," the Australian said.
Still it was a great day. The kind that makes you glad the game is played. Not the kind that makes one think that Old Tom Morris and Willie Park Senior must not have been quite right in the head back when they whacked the feathery around the fields of Scotland. But that kind of weather is said to be coming. Rain is forecast for early Friday and there could be plenty more for the weekend, with the winds set to blow in off the Irish Sea. Best to get your birdies while you can.
Garcia got three of his early and looked to be making a statement.
"I'm obviously very pleased," the world No. 9 said. "Any time you start a major championship and an Open with a four-under, you've got to be pleased with it."
It's true. And for Tiger, being three under must be pleasing, as well.
Both Woods and leader McIlroy go off in the afternoon on Friday and then we'll see what they have in store for the course and what Hoylake has in store for them.
