Martin Kaymer a 'better equipped' major champion following US Open win | Sport | The Guardian
Now for the next question - can Martin Kaymer handle being a major champion better the second time around than the first?
was tipped for golfing greatness after winning the 2010 USPGA Championship. He reached No1 in the world not long after that. Instead of that scenario providing a platform, Kaymer endured a series of on-course struggles until this year. The 29-year-old later admitted to problems dealing with expectation and pressure.
Last month's Players Championship success by Kaymer was bettered by his eight-shot success at the US Open on Sunday. He is now better equipped, says his caddie Craig Connelly, for further achievement.
"He's definitely a more complete player now," said Connelly. "He has all the shots, and there isn't one that he isn't prepared to hit. His short game is improving every week. He is four years older too and more mature.
"He has got the game to do well anywhere. He was hitting his drivers really low at the Players because it got windy and he said: 'that's the shot I want for the Open this year'. He was already thinking ahead to Hoylake back then."
Kaymer couldn't avoid a glance back towards tougher times after his Pinehurst victory. "Four years ago I didn't know what was happening," he said. "I was surprised. I was not expecting myself to win a major at 25. I was surprised about my performance. I was surprised about a lot of things.
"I couldn't handle a lot of things that happened in Germany, all the attention that I could get. And then becoming No1 in the world, that added another thing and it was too much. To be completely honest, it was very difficult to handle everything and to play good golf."
Connelly revealed Kaymer received a US Open pep talk from Bernhard Langer, Germany's most successful golfer of all time. Like Kaymer, Langer has two majors titles to his name but both are from the Masters.
"They had a chat on Sunday morning," Connelly he added. "Bernhard said to Martin: 'Let's get closer to winning that German grand slam.' He has done that."
Royal Portrush Golf Club, meanwhile, will take the formal process later this summer of asking their members to agree to the hosting of the Open Championship. One of the worst kept secrets in sport was confirmed , with the Royal & Ancient confirming it wants to add the Northern Ireland links to the Open rota once again, preferably from 2019. A Portrush extraordinary general meeting will he held to ratify the move.
Simon Rankin, the captain of Royal Portrush said: "I am sure our members will be delighted to see the Open being played here once again.
"It will be of great benefit to the club and Northern Ireland as a whole to have the game's greatest championship played here. This is a great day in the celebrated history of Irish golf."

Commentary
The U.S. Open's other winner
Pinehurst No. 2 broke the mold of how courses hosting U.S. majors can look, play
Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images	Pinehurst No. 2 challenged golfers such as Rickie Fowler, one of just three to finish under par.
PINEHURST, N.C. -- At the end of any U.S. Open, there is always the question of how the field stood up to the golf course.
At last year's Open, Justin Rose wasn't as much the winner as he was the player who had the lowest score at the end of a one-sided fight won by the Merion Golf Club.
This year, there was nearly universal belief among the players at the beginning of the week that Pinehurst No. 2 would yield at best a winner who finished around par. We know now that Martin Kaymer won by eight shots with a 9 under total, the third-lowest winning total in the 114-year history of the event.
Watching Kaymer's assault of this Donald Ross masterpiece, it was easy to recall the 2000 U.S. Open, which Tiger Woods won by 15 strokes. What is less remembered about Tiger's record-setting performance was that he was the only player to finish under par. The next-best score was 3 over par.
At Pinehurst, only three players -- Kaymer, Erik Compton and Rickie Fowler -- finished under par.
But Kaymer was alone in his mastery of Pinehurst No. 2, an outlier in a week when the field stroke average was 3 over par.
On Sunday night, the restoration of Pinehurst No. 2 seemed like a distant memory. Kaymer and Compton, a two-time heart transplant survivor who finished in a tie for second with Fowler, were in the foreground.
Yet Pinehurst No. 2 was a big star this week. And not because its greens rejected approach shots as if they were shot-blockers in the NBA. That's a unique characteristic of the course that the USGA shouldn't try to actively replicate in its other venues.
Although Phil Mickelson had a very frustrating week, finishing in a tie for 28th, he had nothing but positive things to say about Pinehurst No. 2.
[+] Enlarge	Streeter Lecka/Getty ImagesWith its turtle-back greens and sandy rough, Pinehurst presented a unique challenge and a more natural environment.
"I just loved the golf course, the setup, how it played, how fair it was," Lefty said. "What surprised me is how pure and perfect the greens were. I thought, with this heat, bent grass, I just didn't think they would be as perfect as they are. They're just amazing. You get the ball on line and they go in every time, just like Augusta."
One of the most valuable lessons from this week was that the hardest test in championship golf could succeed without thick rough and ultranarrow fairways. Every future venue won't replace its rough with sandy wiregrass areas, but the decades-old mold of the tournament setup has been broken -- opening the door for new interpretations of what a U.S. Open course can be.
Probably few of the thousands who herded the fairways this week at Pinehurst No. 2 realized that 40 percent less water was being used because there was no rough.
Dan Burton, the chairman of the USGA championship committee, said Sunday that they weren't trying to make brown courses but mainly wanted to make courses less manicured off the fairways in the hope of reducing maintenance costs.
"I think by having the national championship of the United States at a golf course like this, we hope to -- I don't think you ever change public perception overnight, but over time if we go places where we show there are options and there are sustainability issues, it helps move that perception somewhat," Burton said.
Pinehurst No. 2 didn't need "doctoring" the habit of so many recent U.S. Open courses. It got a much-needed undoing that hopefully sparks a new trend in championship tournament course setups.
"Wherever you play, you should go with how the golf course is supposed to be played," Kaymer said Sunday night. "I enjoyed the way [Pinehurst No.2] played because that's the way it was supposed to be played."
Pinehurst No. 2 stuck closely to its heritage this week. Years from now, the 2014 U.S. Open should be remembered, among other things, as calling back to the way a golf course was originally conceived, the way it was supposed to be played.
Kaymer is a great young champion who will go on to win, perhaps, several more major championships. Hopefully, the work he did this week will bring about more recognition for the restored Pinehurst No. 2 and its viability as the site of many more major championships.
If there ever were a year when the U.S. Open crowned two champions, it was this week when Kaymer and Pinehurst No. 2 put on a show for the ages.
Golf
Senior golf writer for ESPN.com
Wrote for Sports Illustrated/Golf Magazine for 9 years
Played college golf at Florida A&M
