Martin Kaymer a 'better equipped' major champion following US Open win | Sport | The Guardian
Now for the next question - can Martin Kaymer handle being a major champion better the second time around than the first?
was tipped for golfing greatness after winning the 2010 USPGA Championship. He reached No1 in the world not long after that. Instead of that scenario providing a platform, Kaymer endured a series of on-course struggles until this year. The 29-year-old later admitted to problems dealing with expectation and pressure.
Last month's Players Championship success by Kaymer was bettered by his eight-shot success at the US Open on Sunday. He is now better equipped, says his caddie Craig Connelly, for further achievement.
"He's definitely a more complete player now," said Connelly. "He has all the shots, and there isn't one that he isn't prepared to hit. His short game is improving every week. He is four years older too and more mature.
"He has got the game to do well anywhere. He was hitting his drivers really low at the Players because it got windy and he said: 'that's the shot I want for the Open this year'. He was already thinking ahead to Hoylake back then."
Kaymer couldn't avoid a glance back towards tougher times after his Pinehurst victory. "Four years ago I didn't know what was happening," he said. "I was surprised. I was not expecting myself to win a major at 25. I was surprised about my performance. I was surprised about a lot of things.
"I couldn't handle a lot of things that happened in Germany, all the attention that I could get. And then becoming No1 in the world, that added another thing and it was too much. To be completely honest, it was very difficult to handle everything and to play good golf."
Connelly revealed Kaymer received a US Open pep talk from Bernhard Langer, Germany's most successful golfer of all time. Like Kaymer, Langer has two majors titles to his name but both are from the Masters.
"They had a chat on Sunday morning," Connelly he added. "Bernhard said to Martin: 'Let's get closer to winning that German grand slam.' He has done that."
Royal Portrush Golf Club, meanwhile, will take the formal process later this summer of asking their members to agree to the hosting of the Open Championship. One of the worst kept secrets in sport was confirmed , with the Royal & Ancient confirming it wants to add the Northern Ireland links to the Open rota once again, preferably from 2019. A Portrush extraordinary general meeting will he held to ratify the move.
Simon Rankin, the captain of Royal Portrush said: "I am sure our members will be delighted to see the Open being played here once again.
"It will be of great benefit to the club and Northern Ireland as a whole to have the game's greatest championship played here. This is a great day in the celebrated history of Irish golf."

Kaymer romps to eight-shot win at US Open
PINEHURST: Germany's Martin Kaymer completed an overwhelming wire-to-wire US Open victory Sunday to capture his second major title, grinding out a final-round one-under par 69 to win by eight strokes at Pinehurst. Former world number one Kaymer, whose first major title came at the 2010 PGA Championship, finished 72 holes on nine-under 271, the second-lowest total in US Open history after Rory McIlroy's 268 in 2011. Kaymer displayed poise under pressure while calmly making long clutch putts on tricky turtle-backed greens. He followed a US Open record-low start of back-to-back 65s with a 72 to lead by five entering the last round and then maintained his edge to the end.
Americans Rickie Fowler and Erik Compton shared second on 279 after each fired a final-round 72, but no one came within four strokes of Kaymer at any point in the final round. The victory culminated a comeback for Kaymer, who struggled after his major triumph and went almost three years without a PGA win until taking last month's Players Championship. Kaymer became only the seventh player to win after leading every round, joining a select champions' list that includes Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy, Walter Hagen, Ben Hogan, James Barnes and Tony Jacklin.
The 29-year-old from Dusseldorf became the first man from continental Europe to win the US Open crown and the fourth European winner in five seasons. Kaymer, who will jump from 28th to 11th in the world rankings as a result of the triumph, matched the career major total of Germany's only other major winner, Bernhard Langer, who captured the 1985 and 1993 Masters titles.
Kaymer became the first man to win the Players and US Open in the same year and joined Jack Nicklaus, Tiger Woods and Hal Sutton in winning the Players and a major in the same year. Kaymer never let his foes near enough to challenge. Kaymer drove the green to birdie the par-4 third and took a bogey at the seventh after putting around a bunker to avoid a risky chip. Fowler, who shared fifth at the Masters, faded after a double bogey at the fourth and Compton endured a roller-coaster run of three birdies and four bogeys from the fifth to 12th holes.
In his own tournament: Kaymer made a six-foot birdie at the ninth then took a bogey at the par-5 10th after sending his approach over the green and then putting off the front of the green. Kaymer birdied 13 and 14 to stretch his margin, giving one shot back with a bogey at 16 before he sank a 15-foot par put at 18 - a fitting end to a week where his putting simply sizzled. Compton, twice a heart transplant recipient and playing in only his second major, achieved his best PGA finish. Sweden's second-ranked Henrik Stenson, who could have become world number one with a victory, was in a pack of five players who shared fourth on one-over 281. Joining him were Australian Jason Day and Americans Brooks Koepka, Keegan Bradley and Dustin Johnson.
