Martin Kaymer a 'better equipped' major champion following US Open win | Sport | The Guardian
Now for the next question - can Martin Kaymer handle being a major champion better the second time around than the first?
was tipped for golfing greatness after winning the 2010 USPGA Championship. He reached No1 in the world not long after that. Instead of that scenario providing a platform, Kaymer endured a series of on-course struggles until this year. The 29-year-old later admitted to problems dealing with expectation and pressure.
Last month's Players Championship success by Kaymer was bettered by his eight-shot success at the US Open on Sunday. He is now better equipped, says his caddie Craig Connelly, for further achievement.
"He's definitely a more complete player now," said Connelly. "He has all the shots, and there isn't one that he isn't prepared to hit. His short game is improving every week. He is four years older too and more mature.
"He has got the game to do well anywhere. He was hitting his drivers really low at the Players because it got windy and he said: 'that's the shot I want for the Open this year'. He was already thinking ahead to Hoylake back then."
Kaymer couldn't avoid a glance back towards tougher times after his Pinehurst victory. "Four years ago I didn't know what was happening," he said. "I was surprised. I was not expecting myself to win a major at 25. I was surprised about my performance. I was surprised about a lot of things.
"I couldn't handle a lot of things that happened in Germany, all the attention that I could get. And then becoming No1 in the world, that added another thing and it was too much. To be completely honest, it was very difficult to handle everything and to play good golf."
Connelly revealed Kaymer received a US Open pep talk from Bernhard Langer, Germany's most successful golfer of all time. Like Kaymer, Langer has two majors titles to his name but both are from the Masters.
"They had a chat on Sunday morning," Connelly he added. "Bernhard said to Martin: 'Let's get closer to winning that German grand slam.' He has done that."
Royal Portrush Golf Club, meanwhile, will take the formal process later this summer of asking their members to agree to the hosting of the Open Championship. One of the worst kept secrets in sport was confirmed , with the Royal & Ancient confirming it wants to add the Northern Ireland links to the Open rota once again, preferably from 2019. A Portrush extraordinary general meeting will he held to ratify the move.
Simon Rankin, the captain of Royal Portrush said: "I am sure our members will be delighted to see the Open being played here once again.
"It will be of great benefit to the club and Northern Ireland as a whole to have the game's greatest championship played here. This is a great day in the celebrated history of Irish golf."

US Open 2014: Martin Kaymer cruises to eight-shot victory at Pinehurst No 2 | US Open Golf News | Sky Sports
Martin Kaymer with the trophy
Martin Kaymer completed a commanding performance to win the US Open at Pinehurst No 2 by eight shots and secure his second major title.
The German, who had opened with back-to-back 65s to record the lowest 36-hole start in US Open history, carded a classy final round 69 to finish on nine-under and leave the field trailing in his wake.
Eric Compton (72) and Rickie Fowler (72) finished joint runners-up on one-under and were the only two other players to finish under par in a tournament dominated by former world No 1 Kaymer from start to finish.
Final leaderboard
(US unless stated)
-9 M Kaymer (Ger)
-1 E Compton
-1 R Fowler
+1 K Bradley
+1 J Day (Aus)
+1 B Koepka
+1 D Johnson
+1 H Stenson (Swe)
Click here for collated scores
Keegan Bradley (67), Jason Day (68), Brooks Koepka (71), Dustin Johnson (73) and Henrik Stenson (73) finished tied fourth on one-over.
Although a relatively easier course set-up to Saturday's ultra-tough third round gave Kaymer's closest rivals some hope, all the best scores came from further down the pack. And it meant the German, whose first major came in the 2010 US PGA, was never troubled as he produced a masterclass on how to close out victory.
Kaymer's overnight lead of five shots was temporarily reduced to four when he bogeyed the seventh and Compton made birdie at eight but that was as close as anyone got.
A Kaymer birdie at the ninth extended his lead to six shots at the turn after Compton had bogeyed the same hole and, despite a bogey six at the 10th, the back nine turned into a victory lap.
Martin Kaymer completed a commanding performance to win the US Open at Pinehurst by eight shots.
He increased his advantage to seven when he rolled in a 12 foot birdie putt at the 13th and nailed another from 20 feet at the 14th to stretch it to eight.
A bogey at 16 made no difference and Kaymer closed out with two pars to become only the seventh wire-to-wire winner in the history of the US Open.
It also made him the first German winner of the tournament and the fourth European in the last five years after Ryder Cup team-mates Graeme McDowell (2010), Rory McIlroy (2011) and Justin Rose (2013).
Stenson would have overtaken Adam Scott as world No 1 by claiming his first major title, as long as Scott finished outside the top four (the Aussie finished ninth). But with Kaymer in such dominant form that was never going to happen.
Rose tribute
Defending champion Justin Rose had conceded he was playing for second place after starting the day nine shots off the lead, but an eagle from 25 feet on the fifth lifted him to one under par for the tournament and with hope of finishing runner-up.
It was a struggle after that though as he racked up six bogeys but the Englishman ended the tournament on a nice note as he copied the late Payne Stewart's victory celebration from 1999 as he holed a very similar 15 foot putt on the final green to secure a share of 12th place.
England's Matt Fitzpatrick brought the curtain down on his stellar amateur career in style with a closing 69. The 19-year-old from Sheffield, who finished tied 48th, now heads straight to Cork to make his professional debut in the Irish Open at Fota Island.
Butch Harmon and Colin Montgomerie give their thoughts on Martin Kaymer's emphatic victory in the US Open.
Rory McIlroy and Phil Mickelson completed frustrating weeks with rounds of 73 and 72 respectively.
McIlroy, the 2011 US Open champion, finished in tied 23rd while MIckelson, a six-time runner-up in his home Open, was a short further back on seven-over which left him down in 28th.
Former Masters champion Zach Johnson produced the shot of the day as he recorded the first hole-in-one of the week on the ninth, his tee shot pitching well left of the flag but catching a slope and rolling 20 feet into the hole.
