Martin Kaymer a 'better equipped' major champion following US Open win | Sport | The Guardian
Now for the next question - can Martin Kaymer handle being a major champion better the second time around than the first?
was tipped for golfing greatness after winning the 2010 USPGA Championship. He reached No1 in the world not long after that. Instead of that scenario providing a platform, Kaymer endured a series of on-course struggles until this year. The 29-year-old later admitted to problems dealing with expectation and pressure.
Last month's Players Championship success by Kaymer was bettered by his eight-shot success at the US Open on Sunday. He is now better equipped, says his caddie Craig Connelly, for further achievement.
"He's definitely a more complete player now," said Connelly. "He has all the shots, and there isn't one that he isn't prepared to hit. His short game is improving every week. He is four years older too and more mature.
"He has got the game to do well anywhere. He was hitting his drivers really low at the Players because it got windy and he said: 'that's the shot I want for the Open this year'. He was already thinking ahead to Hoylake back then."
Kaymer couldn't avoid a glance back towards tougher times after his Pinehurst victory. "Four years ago I didn't know what was happening," he said. "I was surprised. I was not expecting myself to win a major at 25. I was surprised about my performance. I was surprised about a lot of things.
"I couldn't handle a lot of things that happened in Germany, all the attention that I could get. And then becoming No1 in the world, that added another thing and it was too much. To be completely honest, it was very difficult to handle everything and to play good golf."
Connelly revealed Kaymer received a US Open pep talk from Bernhard Langer, Germany's most successful golfer of all time. Like Kaymer, Langer has two majors titles to his name but both are from the Masters.
"They had a chat on Sunday morning," Connelly he added. "Bernhard said to Martin: 'Let's get closer to winning that German grand slam.' He has done that."
Royal Portrush Golf Club, meanwhile, will take the formal process later this summer of asking their members to agree to the hosting of the Open Championship. One of the worst kept secrets in sport was confirmed , with the Royal & Ancient confirming it wants to add the Northern Ireland links to the Open rota once again, preferably from 2019. A Portrush extraordinary general meeting will he held to ratify the move.
Simon Rankin, the captain of Royal Portrush said: "I am sure our members will be delighted to see the Open being played here once again.
"It will be of great benefit to the club and Northern Ireland as a whole to have the game's greatest championship played here. This is a great day in the celebrated history of Irish golf."

Lucy Li takes a trip around Pinehurst No. 2 in advance of U.S. Women's Open - On Golf with Ron Kroichick
PINEHURST, N.C. -- I walked three holes today with Lucy Li, the 11-year-old prodigy from Redwood Shores, during her practice round at the U.S. Women's Open. A few quick observations:
Lucy Li, shown here after winning the Drive, Chip & Putt Championship at Augusta National in April, will play in the U.S. Women's Open this week at Pinehurst.
**Some phenoms look older than their age -- Michelle Wie, for example, was always taller than most girls her age. Li, barely 5 feet tall, looks 11 at the most. She could pass for 9, with her braces and colorful pigtails.
**Li has a smooth, rhythmic swing and hits the ball fairly straight. That said, her tee shot on No. 2 was at least 40 to 50 yards behind the drives of Jodi Ewart Shadoff and Hannah Pietila, the other players in her group. This will cause problems come Thursday, because it will be difficult to control long shots into Pinehurst's tricky greens.
**She seems to have a nice touch around the greens -- she rolled a couple of chip shots close to the flagstick on No. 2. Then, on No. 3, her first two shots out of a greenside bunker raced past the pin. Yep, these greens are fast. But Li is a quick learner, because her next two shots out of the bunker (remember, it's practice) trickled inside 6 feet.
I also had a chance to speak to a few notable people to get their thoughts about Li qualifying for the Open at age 11. Here's a sampling of what they said.
Hall of Famer Annika Sorenstam: "This is the biggest stage there is in women's golf, so it all depends on her attitude. I hope she's competitive and does her best, but I would think she sees this as something where maybe in 8 years or 10 years she'll be here (regularly). It all depends on the approach she has. Hopefully, she'll say, 'I'm lucky to be here, I'll learn and this is how I get better. This is a carrot for the future, and I want to play in many of these.' "
LPGA commissioner Michael Whan: "It's an exciting thing. She's the Lexi Thompson of 2014, or Morgan Pressel before her. I hope she takes her time. No rush. There are a lot of good colleges in Northern California."
Thompson: "I was super excited and nervous when I made it at 12. It was more of a learning experience for me, getting there and realizing that's where I wanted to be - seeing all the top players in the world and seeing where my game had to improve. Lucy is obviously an amazing talent, and I think I'm actually playing a practice round with her tomorrow -- so I'll get to see her game."
Longtime LPGA tour pro Natalie Gulbis: "I think it's remarkable she's here at 11 years old. To come here at Pinehurst at 11 is really, really cool. I played in my first LPGA event at 14, and I was so excited about everything - not just playing golf but being around the players, being in the locker room, the food, everything. The whole experience of being at an event like this - what a cool experience for her."
