Martin Kaymer a 'better equipped' major champion following US Open win | Sport | The Guardian
Now for the next question - can Martin Kaymer handle being a major champion better the second time around than the first?
was tipped for golfing greatness after winning the 2010 USPGA Championship. He reached No1 in the world not long after that. Instead of that scenario providing a platform, Kaymer endured a series of on-course struggles until this year. The 29-year-old later admitted to problems dealing with expectation and pressure.
Last month's Players Championship success by Kaymer was bettered by his eight-shot success at the US Open on Sunday. He is now better equipped, says his caddie Craig Connelly, for further achievement.
"He's definitely a more complete player now," said Connelly. "He has all the shots, and there isn't one that he isn't prepared to hit. His short game is improving every week. He is four years older too and more mature.
"He has got the game to do well anywhere. He was hitting his drivers really low at the Players because it got windy and he said: 'that's the shot I want for the Open this year'. He was already thinking ahead to Hoylake back then."
Kaymer couldn't avoid a glance back towards tougher times after his Pinehurst victory. "Four years ago I didn't know what was happening," he said. "I was surprised. I was not expecting myself to win a major at 25. I was surprised about my performance. I was surprised about a lot of things.
"I couldn't handle a lot of things that happened in Germany, all the attention that I could get. And then becoming No1 in the world, that added another thing and it was too much. To be completely honest, it was very difficult to handle everything and to play good golf."
Connelly revealed Kaymer received a US Open pep talk from Bernhard Langer, Germany's most successful golfer of all time. Like Kaymer, Langer has two majors titles to his name but both are from the Masters.
"They had a chat on Sunday morning," Connelly he added. "Bernhard said to Martin: 'Let's get closer to winning that German grand slam.' He has done that."
Royal Portrush Golf Club, meanwhile, will take the formal process later this summer of asking their members to agree to the hosting of the Open Championship. One of the worst kept secrets in sport was confirmed , with the Royal & Ancient confirming it wants to add the Northern Ireland links to the Open rota once again, preferably from 2019. A Portrush extraordinary general meeting will he held to ratify the move.
Simon Rankin, the captain of Royal Portrush said: "I am sure our members will be delighted to see the Open being played here once again.
"It will be of great benefit to the club and Northern Ireland as a whole to have the game's greatest championship played here. This is a great day in the celebrated history of Irish golf."

Brennan: Golf takes swing at better balance with Pinehurst double
LPGA players Jessica Korda, blue skirt, and Michelle Wie, black skirt, watch Rickie Fowler, bottom, left, and Martin Kaymer, bottom, right, Sunday before taking over Pinehurst No. 2 this week.(Photo: Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports)
PINEHURST, N.C. -- Monday was the day the circus was supposed to leave town, only it didn't.
The U.S. Open was over. And yet it wasn't. The men's tournament was finished, but the women's was just beginning.
For the first time in its history, the U.S. Golf Association has decided to do as much as possible to emulate the way the U.S. Tennis Association holds its U.S. Open: putting the men and women on the same stage, hoping to tap into the same fan base and give the players as much exposure as possible.
In this case, that means that the U.S. Women's Open is being played this week on the same course, Pinehurst No. 2, where Martin Kaymer stormed to his eight-stroke victory last week. The world's top male and female players even shared the driving range Sunday afternoon as the men were about to play their final round and the women were arriving.
For a sport that still tolerates exclusive, male-only clubs that don't want their members to have to be anywhere near a woman playing the game, that was quite a sight, and a nice step into the 20th century before too much more of the 21st goes by.
"It's just really cool that we're doing this after the guys and just being here after seeing it on TV is great," Stacy Lewis, the world's top-ranked player, said Monday. "We don't have the exposure like the guys do, and I don't think people realize how good we are. So this is a great opportunity for us to play the same golf course and really show the world that we can play."
Not everything will be the same this week as it was last. The golf course will be a bit shorter, designed for the women to be hitting the same irons into the greens as the men did last week. There will be fewer spectators, which explains why half of the grandstands around the 18th green were taken down Monday. And the media tent predictably was a ghost town, with the vast majority of golf writers having left after the men's tournament.
But this still is a noble effort, and a big step for a sport that even now caters mostly to the privileged white male. Unlike tennis, where women have commanded the limelight and top dollar for several generations, the best female golfers in the world have been neglected or forgotten by the mainstream media, and almost everyone else.
But golf is in trouble now, losing up to 5 million participants over the past decade. Women are the sport's untapped demographic. So if altruism isn't enough to spur golf's leaders to begin to think about some semblance of equality, the bottom line certainly should be.
A new generation of male golfers couldn't be more supportive. These are young men who grew up going to their sisters' sporting events and who have far more respect for female athletes than their fathers ever did. Consider that Rickie Fowler and Keegan Bradley gave Michelle Wie their yardage book from last week, and Rory McIlroy talked to her about the course.
"It's great," McIlroy said Sunday. "I saw Yani (Tseng) this morning, I saw a few girls that I grew up playing junior golf with. I bumped into Michelle earlier, obviously a neighbor of mine down in Palm Beach. So it's cool to run into the girls. I would like to see it happen more often. I think it's a good thing. I think it's a good thing for women's golf to give them a little bit more exposure. Even though they get to play some of the best courses in the world anyway, I'm going to be interested to see and tune in and watch next week just to see how they get on around here and see how they fare."
Phil Mickelson said he felt the same way. "I hope putting them back-to-back works out," he said. "There are a lot of exciting female players that will be competing next week, and their shot selection will be interesting and their execution on such a demanding golf course will be interesting. And it's fun to watch when you already know what the golf course is like and how it plays and where you can and can't go."
These are baby steps for a game not used to diversifying, but steps in the right direction nonetheless. Top male players praising top female players? A generation ago, they might not even have realized that they had female counterparts.
