Martin Kaymer a 'better equipped' major champion following US Open win | Sport | The Guardian
Now for the next question - can Martin Kaymer handle being a major champion better the second time around than the first?
was tipped for golfing greatness after winning the 2010 USPGA Championship. He reached No1 in the world not long after that. Instead of that scenario providing a platform, Kaymer endured a series of on-course struggles until this year. The 29-year-old later admitted to problems dealing with expectation and pressure.
Last month's Players Championship success by Kaymer was bettered by his eight-shot success at the US Open on Sunday. He is now better equipped, says his caddie Craig Connelly, for further achievement.
"He's definitely a more complete player now," said Connelly. "He has all the shots, and there isn't one that he isn't prepared to hit. His short game is improving every week. He is four years older too and more mature.
"He has got the game to do well anywhere. He was hitting his drivers really low at the Players because it got windy and he said: 'that's the shot I want for the Open this year'. He was already thinking ahead to Hoylake back then."
Kaymer couldn't avoid a glance back towards tougher times after his Pinehurst victory. "Four years ago I didn't know what was happening," he said. "I was surprised. I was not expecting myself to win a major at 25. I was surprised about my performance. I was surprised about a lot of things.
"I couldn't handle a lot of things that happened in Germany, all the attention that I could get. And then becoming No1 in the world, that added another thing and it was too much. To be completely honest, it was very difficult to handle everything and to play good golf."
Connelly revealed Kaymer received a US Open pep talk from Bernhard Langer, Germany's most successful golfer of all time. Like Kaymer, Langer has two majors titles to his name but both are from the Masters.
"They had a chat on Sunday morning," Connelly he added. "Bernhard said to Martin: 'Let's get closer to winning that German grand slam.' He has done that."
Royal Portrush Golf Club, meanwhile, will take the formal process later this summer of asking their members to agree to the hosting of the Open Championship. One of the worst kept secrets in sport was confirmed , with the Royal & Ancient confirming it wants to add the Northern Ireland links to the Open rota once again, preferably from 2019. A Portrush extraordinary general meeting will he held to ratify the move.
Simon Rankin, the captain of Royal Portrush said: "I am sure our members will be delighted to see the Open being played here once again.
"It will be of great benefit to the club and Northern Ireland as a whole to have the game's greatest championship played here. This is a great day in the celebrated history of Irish golf."

German Martin Kaymer wins US Open with ease
Martin Kaymer returned to the elite in golf with a US Open victory today that ranks among the best.
A forgotten star for two years while building a complete game, Kaymer turned the toughest test of golf into a runaway at Pinehurst No. 2 on Monday (NZT) to become only the seventh wire-to-wire winner in 114 years of the US Open.
Kaymer closed with a 1-under 69 - the only player from the last eight groups to break par - for an eight-shot victory over Rickie Fowler and Erik Compton, the two-time heart transplant recipient and the only player who even remotely challenged the 29-year-old German.
So dominant was Kaymer that no one got closer than four shots over the final 48 holes. Only a late bogey kept Kaymer from joining Tiger Woods and Rory McIlroy as the only players to finish a US Open in double digits under par.
He made a 15-foot par putt on the 18th hole, dropping his putter as the ball fell into the centre of the cup, just like so many other putts this week.
''No one was catching Kaymer this week,'' Compton said, who earned a trip to the Masters next April.
''I was playing for second. I think we all were playing for second.''
This US Open really ended on Saturday. Kaymer set the U.S. Open record with back-to-back rounds of 65 to set the pace at 10-under 130.
After a 10-foot par save on the second hole, Kaymer belted a driver on the 313-yard third hole. The ball landed on the front of the green and rolled to the back, setting up a two-putt birdie. And he was on his way.
Fowler, in the final group of a major for the first time, fell back quickly with a double bogey on the fourth hole.
Compton birdied the eighth hole and got within four shots until he took bogey on the par-3 ninth, and Kaymer followed in the last group with an 8-iron to 4 feet for birdie.
Kaymer finished at 9-under 271. He won his second major - the other was the 2010 PGA Championship at Whistling Straits in a three-man playoff - and this one wasn't close.
''Martin was playing his own tournament,'' Fowler said.
Kaymer joined Seve Ballesteros, Ernie Els, Woods and McIlroy as the only players to win two majors and be No. 1 in the world before turning 30 since the world rankings began in 1986.
He is the fourth European in the last five years to win the US Open, after Europeans had gone 40 years without this title.
It's a rebirth for Kaymer, who only last month captured The Players Championship.
Kaymer reached No. 1 in the world in February 2011, only to believe that he needed a more rounded game.
His preferred shot was a fade. Kaymer spent two hard years, a lot of lonely hours on the range in Germany and his home in Scottsdale, Arizona.
The big payoff came at Pinehurst No. 2.
Kaymer has as many majors as Bernhard Langer, the two-time Masters champion and a mentor to Kaymer. Langer sent him text messages earlier in the week.
''We've almost a German Grand Slam - almost,'' Kaymer said. ''I hope it will make Bernhard proud. I'm sure it will make all of Germany proud.''
The biggest challenge for Kaymer was tuning out the crowd, with enormous support for Fowler, who enjoys pop star qualities in America.
The fans clapped when Kaymer's ball bounded off the back of the green, and even when a superb shot from the native on No. 4 rolled off the front of the green.
He marched along, dropping a shot on No. 7 with a shot left of the green that made him play away from a bunker to avoid a score worse than bogey, and another on the par-5 10th when a shot from the sandy area sailed over the green, and he used putter to send the next shot back toward the fairway.
But after back-to-back birdies, including a 30-footer on the 14th, the only question left was the margin.
Woods still holds the most dominant US Open win - 15 shots at Pebble Beach in 2000. McIlroy won by eight shots on rain-softened Congressional in 2011, winning with a record score of 16-under 268.
''I'm wondering how he did it,'' McIlroy said.
''Obviously, if you limit the mistakes, you might end up a couple under for the week. But to do what he's doing ... I think it's nearly more impressive than what I did at Congressional.''
Kaymer's father was home in Germany, where he said Father's Day was celebrated a few weeks ago.
''I didn't get anything for my father that day,'' Kaymer said. ''So maybe this will work.''
- AP
