Lucy Li takes a trip around Pinehurst No. 2 in advance of U.S. Women's Open - On Golf with Ron Kroichick
PINEHURST, N.C. -- I walked three holes today with Lucy Li, the 11-year-old prodigy from Redwood Shores, during her practice round at the U.S. Women's Open. A few quick observations:
Lucy Li, shown here after winning the Drive, Chip & Putt Championship at Augusta National in April, will play in the U.S. Women's Open this week at Pinehurst.
**Some phenoms look older than their age -- Michelle Wie, for example, was always taller than most girls her age. Li, barely 5 feet tall, looks 11 at the most. She could pass for 9, with her braces and colorful pigtails.
**Li has a smooth, rhythmic swing and hits the ball fairly straight. That said, her tee shot on No. 2 was at least 40 to 50 yards behind the drives of Jodi Ewart Shadoff and Hannah Pietila, the other players in her group. This will cause problems come Thursday, because it will be difficult to control long shots into Pinehurst's tricky greens.
**She seems to have a nice touch around the greens -- she rolled a couple of chip shots close to the flagstick on No. 2. Then, on No. 3, her first two shots out of a greenside bunker raced past the pin. Yep, these greens are fast. But Li is a quick learner, because her next two shots out of the bunker (remember, it's practice) trickled inside 6 feet.
I also had a chance to speak to a few notable people to get their thoughts about Li qualifying for the Open at age 11. Here's a sampling of what they said.
Hall of Famer Annika Sorenstam: "This is the biggest stage there is in women's golf, so it all depends on her attitude. I hope she's competitive and does her best, but I would think she sees this as something where maybe in 8 years or 10 years she'll be here (regularly). It all depends on the approach she has. Hopefully, she'll say, 'I'm lucky to be here, I'll learn and this is how I get better. This is a carrot for the future, and I want to play in many of these.' "
LPGA commissioner Michael Whan: "It's an exciting thing. She's the Lexi Thompson of 2014, or Morgan Pressel before her. I hope she takes her time. No rush. There are a lot of good colleges in Northern California."
Thompson: "I was super excited and nervous when I made it at 12. It was more of a learning experience for me, getting there and realizing that's where I wanted to be - seeing all the top players in the world and seeing where my game had to improve. Lucy is obviously an amazing talent, and I think I'm actually playing a practice round with her tomorrow -- so I'll get to see her game."
Longtime LPGA tour pro Natalie Gulbis: "I think it's remarkable she's here at 11 years old. To come here at Pinehurst at 11 is really, really cool. I played in my first LPGA event at 14, and I was so excited about everything - not just playing golf but being around the players, being in the locker room, the food, everything. The whole experience of being at an event like this - what a cool experience for her."
