Martin Kaymer wins US Open by eight shots to claim his second major | Sport | The Guardian
There were always two tournaments scheduled for Pinehurst No2 this month. Martin Kaymer ensured that number took place on the same weekend.
As this famous old venue prepares to stage the women's US Open, reflections on the male equivalent should centre around Kaymer's dominance. If you removed the German from the field, there was a keenly fought contest over the four days here. With Kaymer as part of it this was a procession.
The church bells from Pinehurst's village chapel played Beethoven's Ode to Joy as Kaymer stepped towards the 1st tee on Sunday afternoon. That proved an appropriate backdrop; he won by eight, at nine under, following a fourth round of 69.
Kaymer is now a history maker, as the first player from continental Europe to win a US Open. The denouement to this event was not remotely exciting, which serves as a tribute to the imperious 2014 champion.
Kaymer's golfing redemption is complete. If victory at the Players Championship last month highlighted his long-awaited return to form, a second major success reaffirmed Kaymer's status as one of the sport's leading lights. His earlier period in the wilderness was brief in the context of a long professional career.
Kaymer has thereby matched the major haul of his great compatriot, Bernhard Langer, before the age of 30. Langer never finished higher than fourth in a US Open. It was another player in his pomp, however, that Kaymer's nerveless Sunday Pinehurst was reminiscent of: Tiger Woods.
No sooner had the 29-year-old offered a brief glimpse of fallibility than he slammed shut the door of hope in front of the brow-beaten opposition. At the Players Kaymer secured a wire-to-wire triumph. To do it again in a major championship endorses a special talent, one which previously catapulted Kaymer to the summit of the world rankings.
When Kaymer speaks of working his way back to the summit of this game, such sentiment should not be taken lightly. This is a player who has hit range balls until his hands bled, such is his determination even to flirt with perfection.
Two years after he holed the winning putt at Medinah, Kaymer is virtually certain to return to the Ryder Cup in September. His competitive toughness renders him a significant European weapon.
"If you got him in a Ryder Cup match or coming down the end of a tournament, he's probably a guy you would rather not face," said Keegan Bradley, who partnered Kaymer over the first two rounds at Pinehurst. "He's tough and he's very, very good."
Kaymer's lead had stood at five after 54 holes. Barring a nerve-inflicted disaster, that always looked insurmountable leeway; even a slightly generous Sunday set-up at Pinehurst was not going to trigger scores of 65 or better.
The closest any player got to Kaymer on day four was four strokes, after he bogeyed the 7th. By the time Kaymer holed out for birdie threes at the 13th and 14th, his advantage was eight. To coin World Cup parlance: game over.
Of those making up the numbers Erik Compton's story was by far the most remarkable. The 34-year-old has undergone two heart transplants and was competing in only his second major championship. His tie for second with Rickie Fowler would be worthy of immense credit, even without the personal battles which the inspirational Compton has endured to get to this point. He has medical permission to use a buggy in competitive rounds but never chooses to do so; to be going toe-to-toe with the best players in world golf, on level terms, is an astonishing feat.
Compton's story has not been lost on those around him. "It's incredible, what Erik is doing," said Rory McIlroy. "By that I mean, just to be playing in a US Open, given everything that Erik has gone through. I have got to know him pretty well over the last few years. And just a really incredible guy, upbeat and obviously very talented. Given everything that Erik has gone through and continues to go through, it's really phenomenal."
McIlroy's US Open ended with a third plus-70 round out of four, this time 73, which left him at six over. A 72 from Phil Mickelson meant he finished one shot worse off than McIlroy and still looking for a kickstart to what has been a low-key season.
"You have got to put it all together to win a major championship," Mickelson said. "Somebody is going to play well. You can't get by with scraping it around, you have to have it all firing.
"I thought that I had a great game plan. I was ready to play and sometimes it just doesn't click. It just doesn't come together. It's one thing to have a great game plan, but you have to execute, you got to hit some shots, make some putts, and I threw too many shots away the first two rounds to really have a good chance."
Being blunt, Mickelson and co were consigned to the territory of the also-ran. This was a one-man show.
