Baseball - Highlights of Thursday's MLB games - Yahoo Eurosport UK
- - -
Athletics 6, Giants 1
Scott Kazmir continues to make hay while the sun shines, the left-hander enjoying another dominant daytime performance by striking out nine and allowing the San Francisco Giants just three hits over seven innings in Oakland's 6-1 victory.
Kazmir (11-3) ran his record to 5-0 and lowered his ERA to 0.93 in seven early starts this season.
The A's backed Kazmir with a powerful offensive assault, bombing Giants right-hander Tim Hudson (7-6) for six runs and nine hits in 5 1/3 innings.
First baseman Stephen Vogt drove in three runs with two singles and third baseman Josh Donaldson belted a two-run homer for the A's, who won the Bay Bridge series 3-1.
- - -
Indians 9, Yankees 3
Asdrubal Cabrera's bases-loaded triple highlighted a four-run Cleveland seventh inning, and Roberto Perez and Carlos Santana each hit two-run home runs to highlight a five-run eighth, as the Indians rallied past the New York Yankees 9-3.
Trailing 3-0 into the seventh shortstop Cabrera, who came into the game hitting .179 with runners in scoring position and .167 with the bases loaded, tripled into the right-field corner, scoring all three runners to tie the game.
- - -
Cubs 6, Reds 4 (12 innings)
Third baseman Luis Valbuena's triple drove in the go-ahead runs in the 12th inning, lifting the Chicago Cubs to a 6-4 victory over the Cincinnati Reds.
Cubs second baseman Arismendy Alcantara went 4-for-5 with a double and triple, his first career hits, and three RBIs. With two outs in the 12th, Valbuena tripled off Skip Schumaker's glove in right field, driving in two runs.
- - -
Phillies 9, Brewers 1
The Milwaukee Brewers fell apart late and were forced to swallow a stunning 9-1 loss to the lowly Philadelphia Phillies.
With the game tied 1-1 in the eighth Jimmy Rollins put the Phillies ahead with a two-run single to left, starting a blitz.
When third baseman Cody Asche produced a ground-rule double to right, it was 5-1 and the inning ended 7-1 to the Phillies.
Ryan Howard picked up his second hit of the day with a two-run homer in the ninth, his 15th home run of the year, to ice the late surge.
- - -
Red Sox 4, White Sox 3 (10 innings)
Pinch hitter Mike Carp delivered the game-winning hit in the 10th inning, leading the Red Sox to a 4-3 victory over the Chicago White Sox.
Chicago's Conor Gillaspie tied the game at 3-3 with a pinch-hit, two-run homer in the ninth inning off All-Star closer Koji Uehara.
But Carp's single to left in the 10th plated Daniel Nava for the win, one of just three hits for Boston en route to their third win in 10 games.
- - -
Orioles 4, Nationals 3
Steve Pearce homered and Wei-Yin Chen got his team-leading ninth win as the Baltimore Orioles topped the Washington Nationals 4-3.
Pearce, the Orioles' left fielder, went 2-for-4 with two runs scored and got his 11th home run of the season. Chen (9-3) allowed four runs on eight hits with six strikeouts over 5 2/3 innings for Baltimore (50-41).
Nationals (49-41) catcher Wilson Ramos extended his hitting streak to a career-high 13 games, currently the longest in the majors, while right fielder Jayson Werth homered and designated hitter Ryan Zimmerman had two hits and an RBI.
- - -
Braves 3, Mets 1
Aaron Harang allowed one run over seven innings, and Freddie Freeman and Jason Heyward each had RBI hits in the first inning as the Atlanta Braves beat the New York Mets 3-1.
Freeman finished 2-for-4 while improving his lifetime batting average against the Mets to .324 (80-for-247).
The first baseman's RBI double in the opening inning brought home shortstop Andrelton Simmons and Freeman scored one out later on a single to left by Hayward.
- - -
Pirates 9, Cardinals 1
Pittsburgh Pirates starter Edinson Volquez went the distance in a 9-1 blowout win over the St Louis Cardinals, scattering six hits, walking two and fanning five as he improved to 8-6 with his fourth straight win.
The Pirates (48-44) got two RBIs apiece from left fielder Josh Harrison, center fielder Andrew McCutchen, second baseman Neil Walker and catcher Russell Martin.
- - -
Angels 15, Rangers 6
Mike Trout was 4-for-5 with a home run and four RBIs for the streaking Los Angeles Angels, who won for the 16th time in 19 games by defeating the Texas Rangers 15-6.
Trout was one of four hitters with two or more RBIs for the Angels.
Left fielder Josh Hamilton was 3-for-5 with three doubles and two RBIs, and first baseman Albert Pujols was 2-for-4 with two RBIs.
Right fielder Kole Calhoun was also 4-for-5, including a triple, and he scored a run on a throwing error leading off the game.
- - -
Tigers 16, Royals 4
The Detroit Tigers battered four Kansas City pitchers on the way to a 16-4 victory over the Royals.
Every Detroit starter scored at least one run and all but catcher Alex Avila reached base at least twice in the first five innings.


MLB roundup: Athletics down Giants to take Bay Bridge series
SAN FRANCISCO a All-Star pitcher Scott Kazmir struck out nine in seven scoreless innings to help the Oakland Athletics win the annual Bay Bridge series by beating the San Francisco Giants 6-1 on Thursday.
Josh Donaldson hit a two-run homer and Stephen Vogt drove in three runs for the Aas, who won three of four in the two-city series that began Monday night in Oakland. The Aas (58-34) have won seven of eight overall and have matched the best start in Oakland history.
Tim Hudson (7-6) was unable to make it out of the sixth inning and lost his fourth straight decision for the floundering Giants.
San Francisco has lost 15 of its past 19 home games and hasnat won consecutive games at AT&T Park in more than a month.
Kazmir (11-3) allowed three hits and one walk. He has yielded one run or fewer in 11 of 19 starts this season for a 2.38 ERA.
ORIOLES 4, NATIONALS 3
BALTIMORE (AP) a Steve Pearce homered and scored twice to help Wei-Yin Chen earn his team-high ninth victory, and Baltimore beat Washington for its eighth win in 10 games.
Adam Jones and Nelson Cruz both drove in a run for the Orioles, who built a 4-0 lead in the third inning and held on. Baltimore took two of three from the Nationals in this rain-shortened, home-and-home interleague showdown between division leaders.
Jayson Werth homered for Washington and Ryan Zimmerman had two hits and an RBI.
Chen (9-3) gave up three runs in 5 2-3 innings, improving to 6-1 in 12 starts since May 3. He was 0-2 with a 7.71 ERA in his previous two starts against the Nationals.
After Darren OaDay worked out of a bases-loaded jam in the eighth, Zach Britton got three outs for his 15th save, capping his 22nd consecutive scoreless appearance at home.
Gio Gonzalez (6-5) allowed three earned runs and six hits in 6 2-3 innings. His streak of 22 consecutive scoreless innings ended when Pearce connected in the first.
INDIANS 9, YANKEES 3
CLEVELAND (AP) a Roberto Perez hit a two-run homer in his major league debut, Carlos Santana also connected and Cleveland scored nine runs in its last two innings at bat to rally past New York.
Asdrubal Cabreraas bases-loaded triple and Michael Brantleyas sacrifice fly highlighted a four-run seventh that erased a 3-0 deficit. Brantley, a first-time All-Star this season, added an RBI single in a five-run eighth, when Perez and Santana homered.
On a conference call during the game, Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said right-hander Masahiro Tanaka has a partially torn ligament in his pitching elbow. The team hopes its rookie sensation will be able to return this season.
Cashman said Tanaka could be back in six weeks, but didnat rule out the possibility of Tommy John surgery if the pitcher doesnat respond to a rehab program.
Perez also singled in the seventh for his first career hit. Carlos Carrasco (2-3) pitched a scoreless inning to help the Indians gain a four-game split.
Derek Jeter, playing his final regular-season game in Cleveland, went 2 for 4 in the 1,000th multihit game of his career. Ichiro Suzuki had a pinch-hit single for his 2,800th major league hit.
Zelous Wheeler hit a two-run homer, and Yankees starter David Phelps took a shutout into the seventh. Matt Thornton (0-3) toook the loss.
CUBS 6, REDS 4, 12 INNINGS
CINCINNATI (AP) a Luis Valbuena hit a tiebreaking, two-run triple in the 12th inning and Chicago avoided a rare five-game sweep in Cincinnati.
Arismendy Alcantara singled with one out and went to second on Starlin Castroas two-out infield single. Valbuena, who was 0 for 4 with three strikeouts, sent a drive to deep right field against J.J. Hoover (1-6).
Skip Schumaker was unable to catch up with the ball, but Valbuena was thrown out at the plate trying for an inside-the-park home run.
Alcantara got his first major league hit a a two-run double a and drove in three runs. Blake Parker (1-0) pitched the last two innings and the Cubs snapped their losing streak at a season-high six games.
Ryan Ludwick homered, but the Reds couldnat overcome a lineup missing more than half its regulars and the loss of starter Homer Bailey to a knee injury after five innings.
Gold Glove second baseman Brandon Phillips is expected to miss six weeks after having surgery Friday to repair torn ligaments in his left thumb.
PHILLIES 9, BREWERS 1
MILWAUKEE (AP) a Jimmy Rollins broke up Matt Garzaas no-hit bid with a single in the seventh before sparking a seven-run outburst an inning later, helping Philadelphia complete a four-game sweep of Milwaukee.
Rollins greeted reliever Will Smith in the eighth by singling to left to drive home two runs. Garza (6-6) had just been pulled from the game to a standing ovation but could only watch from the dugout as his shutout evaporated.
The Phillies sent 12 batters to the plate in the eighth and got RBI ground-rule doubles from Ryan Howard and Cody Asche. Philadelphia swept a four-game series for the first time since taking four in Cincinnati in 2011.
Rookie pitcher David Buchanan (5-5) struck out five in seven innings for the win.
Carlos Gomez homered for the Brewers, clinging to its NL Central lead despite five straight losses and nine in 10 games.
RED SOX 4, WHITE SOX 3, 10 INNINGS
BOSTON (AP) a Mike Carpas pinch-hit single in the 10th inning gave Boston its second straight walk-off victory over Chicago.
Jon Lester struck out 12 in seven innings for the Red Sox, but fellow All-Star Koji Uehara gave up a tying, two-run homer in the ninth to pinch-hitter Conor Gillaspie a his third long ball in three games and fourth of the season.
David Ortiz had a two-run double for the Red Sox, who ended their 3-7 homestand on an upswing.
Pinch-hitter Daniel Nava drew a leadoff walk in the 10th and scored the winning run for the second consecutive game. Ronald Belisario (3-6) took the loss.
Chicago had runners at first and third with two outs in the 10th, but Alexei Ramirez was retired on a grounder to pitcher Andrew Miller (3-5).
BRAVES 3, METS 1
NEW YORK (AP) a Aaron Harang allowed four hits in seven innings, and Atlanta used early offence against Bartolo Colon to avert a four-game sweep by New York.
The Braves snapped a four-game skid and ended the Metsa season-best, four-game winning streak. New York hasnat swept a four-game set from Atlanta since July 1989.
Freddie Freeman had an RBI double in a two-run first. Harang (9-6) won his fourth straight start, beating the Mets for the second time this season.
Craig Kimbrel worked out of an eighth-inning jam and got four outs for his 28th save in 32 opportunities.
Colon (8-8) hung around for eight innings but lost his third consecutive start.
PIRATES 9, CARDINALS 1
ST. LOUIS (AP) a Edinson Volquez tossed a six-hitter to win his fourth straight start, pitching Pittsburgh past St. Louis.
Neil Walker, Josh Harrison, Russell Martin and Andrew McCutchen all drove in two runs for the Pirates, who avoided being swept in the four-game series.
Volquez (8-6) has a 0.90 ERA in winning four consecutive starts for the first time in his career. He struck out five and walked two.
Shelby Miller (7-8) allowed four runs in five innings.
The Cardinals played without All-Star catcher Yadier Molina, who tore a ligament in his right thumb Wednesday. Molina will have surgery Friday and is expected to miss 8 to 12 weeks.
