Baseball - Highlights of Thursday's MLB games - Yahoo Eurosport UK
- - -
Athletics 6, Giants 1
Scott Kazmir continues to make hay while the sun shines, the left-hander enjoying another dominant daytime performance by striking out nine and allowing the San Francisco Giants just three hits over seven innings in Oakland's 6-1 victory.
Kazmir (11-3) ran his record to 5-0 and lowered his ERA to 0.93 in seven early starts this season.
The A's backed Kazmir with a powerful offensive assault, bombing Giants right-hander Tim Hudson (7-6) for six runs and nine hits in 5 1/3 innings.
First baseman Stephen Vogt drove in three runs with two singles and third baseman Josh Donaldson belted a two-run homer for the A's, who won the Bay Bridge series 3-1.
- - -
Indians 9, Yankees 3
Asdrubal Cabrera's bases-loaded triple highlighted a four-run Cleveland seventh inning, and Roberto Perez and Carlos Santana each hit two-run home runs to highlight a five-run eighth, as the Indians rallied past the New York Yankees 9-3.
Trailing 3-0 into the seventh shortstop Cabrera, who came into the game hitting .179 with runners in scoring position and .167 with the bases loaded, tripled into the right-field corner, scoring all three runners to tie the game.
- - -
Cubs 6, Reds 4 (12 innings)
Third baseman Luis Valbuena's triple drove in the go-ahead runs in the 12th inning, lifting the Chicago Cubs to a 6-4 victory over the Cincinnati Reds.
Cubs second baseman Arismendy Alcantara went 4-for-5 with a double and triple, his first career hits, and three RBIs. With two outs in the 12th, Valbuena tripled off Skip Schumaker's glove in right field, driving in two runs.
- - -
Phillies 9, Brewers 1
The Milwaukee Brewers fell apart late and were forced to swallow a stunning 9-1 loss to the lowly Philadelphia Phillies.
With the game tied 1-1 in the eighth Jimmy Rollins put the Phillies ahead with a two-run single to left, starting a blitz.
When third baseman Cody Asche produced a ground-rule double to right, it was 5-1 and the inning ended 7-1 to the Phillies.
Ryan Howard picked up his second hit of the day with a two-run homer in the ninth, his 15th home run of the year, to ice the late surge.
- - -
Red Sox 4, White Sox 3 (10 innings)
Pinch hitter Mike Carp delivered the game-winning hit in the 10th inning, leading the Red Sox to a 4-3 victory over the Chicago White Sox.
Chicago's Conor Gillaspie tied the game at 3-3 with a pinch-hit, two-run homer in the ninth inning off All-Star closer Koji Uehara.
But Carp's single to left in the 10th plated Daniel Nava for the win, one of just three hits for Boston en route to their third win in 10 games.
- - -
Orioles 4, Nationals 3
Steve Pearce homered and Wei-Yin Chen got his team-leading ninth win as the Baltimore Orioles topped the Washington Nationals 4-3.
Pearce, the Orioles' left fielder, went 2-for-4 with two runs scored and got his 11th home run of the season. Chen (9-3) allowed four runs on eight hits with six strikeouts over 5 2/3 innings for Baltimore (50-41).
Nationals (49-41) catcher Wilson Ramos extended his hitting streak to a career-high 13 games, currently the longest in the majors, while right fielder Jayson Werth homered and designated hitter Ryan Zimmerman had two hits and an RBI.
- - -
Braves 3, Mets 1
Aaron Harang allowed one run over seven innings, and Freddie Freeman and Jason Heyward each had RBI hits in the first inning as the Atlanta Braves beat the New York Mets 3-1.
Freeman finished 2-for-4 while improving his lifetime batting average against the Mets to .324 (80-for-247).
The first baseman's RBI double in the opening inning brought home shortstop Andrelton Simmons and Freeman scored one out later on a single to left by Hayward.
- - -
Pirates 9, Cardinals 1
Pittsburgh Pirates starter Edinson Volquez went the distance in a 9-1 blowout win over the St Louis Cardinals, scattering six hits, walking two and fanning five as he improved to 8-6 with his fourth straight win.
The Pirates (48-44) got two RBIs apiece from left fielder Josh Harrison, center fielder Andrew McCutchen, second baseman Neil Walker and catcher Russell Martin.
- - -
Angels 15, Rangers 6
Mike Trout was 4-for-5 with a home run and four RBIs for the streaking Los Angeles Angels, who won for the 16th time in 19 games by defeating the Texas Rangers 15-6.
Trout was one of four hitters with two or more RBIs for the Angels.
Left fielder Josh Hamilton was 3-for-5 with three doubles and two RBIs, and first baseman Albert Pujols was 2-for-4 with two RBIs.
Right fielder Kole Calhoun was also 4-for-5, including a triple, and he scored a run on a throwing error leading off the game.
- - -
Tigers 16, Royals 4
The Detroit Tigers battered four Kansas City pitchers on the way to a 16-4 victory over the Royals.
Every Detroit starter scored at least one run and all but catcher Alex Avila reached base at least twice in the first five innings.


POSTGAME NOTES: The Giants lost another home game. - Giants Extra
i mean, you saw it.
-- In the game story, a look at slumps up and down the lineup. It's jarring when you see a team get shut out four times in eight games, or score seven runs in a four-game series. And then you start going through the game logs and see 2 for 25, 1 for 22, .207 average, .162 average, etc. etc. If you're a masochist, it's all in there. At least click on it and look at the color photos, I guess.
-- Dropping 15 of 19 at home is stunning. Will be curious to see if the sellout streak makes it through a weekend series with the Diamondbacks ...
-- Brandon Belt is the 2 for 25, and now you can see why the Giants waited as long as they did when he was crushing prospects during his rehab assignment. It's hard to have your timing down against Major League pitchers, and Belt is still searching.
"People are in midseason form, and the reality is that I'm not," said Belt, who missed eight weeks. "But what gives me confidence is just knowing I've been through struggles before and I know I'll come out of it. I know where I stand as a hitter. It's just a matter of getting that timing back."
The good news, Belt said, is that his thumb feels fine and his legs are under him. He thinks he has the right approach, too. It's about timing, and Belt has shown in the past that with him it can return pretty quickly.
-- Tim Hudson's last five starts: 0-4, 6.07 ERA. The A's knocked him out in the sixth today.
"He was a little off today," manager Bruce Bochy said. "He's done such a great job but today he wasn't quite as sharp and didn't have the same action on his changeup or sinker."
Bochy had a decision to make in the bottom of the fifth, with two in scoring position and two outs in a two-run game. He stuck with Hudson.
"There are two outs there and he had a good (10-pitch walk) the first time," Bochy said. "He hit one of the hardest balls we hit all day. He's earned that. I don't like to take these starters out in a tight ballgame like that."
Left unsaid: Even if a pinch-hitter does go up there and tie the game, the Giants are still in a tight spot. The bullpen has been really inconsistent in recent weeks and probably wasn't keeping the A's at two runs.
-- So, the A's brought their All-Star catcher (Derek Norris) in to pinch-hit for today's starting catcher (John Jaso), and Javier Lopez managed to get the right-hander to fly out to right. So then their third catcher, the .367-hitting Stephen Vogt, breaks the game open with a two-run single. The freaking A's, man. What a roster.
As Carl Steward pointed out, their fourth catcher is the starting third baseman in the All-Star Game.
-- There are always players who stand out more in person, and after these four games, Josh Donaldson and Coco Crisp go on that list. Donaldson hit a Morse-ish homer to right. Not bad for a guy who plays Gold Glove defense at third.
-- Brandon Phillips and Yadier Molina are having thumb surgery and CJ Wilson hit the disabled list this morning. Aaaaand that's why it's never a good idea to blame injuries for one team's swoon. Everyone gets hit hard. The teams that deal with it end up playing in October.
Speaking of Molina, he's out of the All-Star Game, and you figure Buster Posey is the first on deck to replace him. That selection would be a bit of an odd moment for the Giants; I know a few in the organization were privately fine with Posey getting four days off next week.
Posey was fine after that foul tip, by the way. And Scott Kazmir was fine after feeling a leg twinge when time was called as he went into his windup. Angel Hernandez, man ... never fails.
