Baseball - Highlights of Thursday's MLB games - Yahoo Eurosport UK
- - -
Athletics 6, Giants 1
Scott Kazmir continues to make hay while the sun shines, the left-hander enjoying another dominant daytime performance by striking out nine and allowing the San Francisco Giants just three hits over seven innings in Oakland's 6-1 victory.
Kazmir (11-3) ran his record to 5-0 and lowered his ERA to 0.93 in seven early starts this season.
The A's backed Kazmir with a powerful offensive assault, bombing Giants right-hander Tim Hudson (7-6) for six runs and nine hits in 5 1/3 innings.
First baseman Stephen Vogt drove in three runs with two singles and third baseman Josh Donaldson belted a two-run homer for the A's, who won the Bay Bridge series 3-1.
- - -
Indians 9, Yankees 3
Asdrubal Cabrera's bases-loaded triple highlighted a four-run Cleveland seventh inning, and Roberto Perez and Carlos Santana each hit two-run home runs to highlight a five-run eighth, as the Indians rallied past the New York Yankees 9-3.
Trailing 3-0 into the seventh shortstop Cabrera, who came into the game hitting .179 with runners in scoring position and .167 with the bases loaded, tripled into the right-field corner, scoring all three runners to tie the game.
- - -
Cubs 6, Reds 4 (12 innings)
Third baseman Luis Valbuena's triple drove in the go-ahead runs in the 12th inning, lifting the Chicago Cubs to a 6-4 victory over the Cincinnati Reds.
Cubs second baseman Arismendy Alcantara went 4-for-5 with a double and triple, his first career hits, and three RBIs. With two outs in the 12th, Valbuena tripled off Skip Schumaker's glove in right field, driving in two runs.
- - -
Phillies 9, Brewers 1
The Milwaukee Brewers fell apart late and were forced to swallow a stunning 9-1 loss to the lowly Philadelphia Phillies.
With the game tied 1-1 in the eighth Jimmy Rollins put the Phillies ahead with a two-run single to left, starting a blitz.
When third baseman Cody Asche produced a ground-rule double to right, it was 5-1 and the inning ended 7-1 to the Phillies.
Ryan Howard picked up his second hit of the day with a two-run homer in the ninth, his 15th home run of the year, to ice the late surge.
- - -
Red Sox 4, White Sox 3 (10 innings)
Pinch hitter Mike Carp delivered the game-winning hit in the 10th inning, leading the Red Sox to a 4-3 victory over the Chicago White Sox.
Chicago's Conor Gillaspie tied the game at 3-3 with a pinch-hit, two-run homer in the ninth inning off All-Star closer Koji Uehara.
But Carp's single to left in the 10th plated Daniel Nava for the win, one of just three hits for Boston en route to their third win in 10 games.
- - -
Orioles 4, Nationals 3
Steve Pearce homered and Wei-Yin Chen got his team-leading ninth win as the Baltimore Orioles topped the Washington Nationals 4-3.
Pearce, the Orioles' left fielder, went 2-for-4 with two runs scored and got his 11th home run of the season. Chen (9-3) allowed four runs on eight hits with six strikeouts over 5 2/3 innings for Baltimore (50-41).
Nationals (49-41) catcher Wilson Ramos extended his hitting streak to a career-high 13 games, currently the longest in the majors, while right fielder Jayson Werth homered and designated hitter Ryan Zimmerman had two hits and an RBI.
- - -
Braves 3, Mets 1
Aaron Harang allowed one run over seven innings, and Freddie Freeman and Jason Heyward each had RBI hits in the first inning as the Atlanta Braves beat the New York Mets 3-1.
Freeman finished 2-for-4 while improving his lifetime batting average against the Mets to .324 (80-for-247).
The first baseman's RBI double in the opening inning brought home shortstop Andrelton Simmons and Freeman scored one out later on a single to left by Hayward.
- - -
Pirates 9, Cardinals 1
Pittsburgh Pirates starter Edinson Volquez went the distance in a 9-1 blowout win over the St Louis Cardinals, scattering six hits, walking two and fanning five as he improved to 8-6 with his fourth straight win.
The Pirates (48-44) got two RBIs apiece from left fielder Josh Harrison, center fielder Andrew McCutchen, second baseman Neil Walker and catcher Russell Martin.
- - -
Angels 15, Rangers 6
Mike Trout was 4-for-5 with a home run and four RBIs for the streaking Los Angeles Angels, who won for the 16th time in 19 games by defeating the Texas Rangers 15-6.
Trout was one of four hitters with two or more RBIs for the Angels.
Left fielder Josh Hamilton was 3-for-5 with three doubles and two RBIs, and first baseman Albert Pujols was 2-for-4 with two RBIs.
Right fielder Kole Calhoun was also 4-for-5, including a triple, and he scored a run on a throwing error leading off the game.
- - -
Tigers 16, Royals 4
The Detroit Tigers battered four Kansas City pitchers on the way to a 16-4 victory over the Royals.
Every Detroit starter scored at least one run and all but catcher Alex Avila reached base at least twice in the first five innings.


Kazmir, A's complete series win over Giants | Reuters
Kazmir, A's complete series win over Giants
SAN FRANCISCO -- Scott Kazmir's first 10 wins this season led the left-hander into the All-Star Game.
The 11th might have earned him a start in the game.
Kazmir capped a brilliant personal first half with one of his best efforts of the season, striking out nine and shutting out the San Francisco Giants on three hits in seven innings in the Oakland Athletics' 6-1 victory over their cross-bay rivals Thursday afternoon.
The win allowed the A's, leaders of the American League West, to split two games in San Francisco after they swept two in Oakland to begin the four-game sequence Monday and Tuesday.
"It's everything I've heard about," Kazmir said of the A's-Giants rivalry, in which he was participating for the first time this week. "Every game had kinda a playoff atmosphere."
Kazmir (11-3) improved to 5-0 with a 0.93 ERA in seven daytime starts this season. The third-time All-Star allowed one or fewer earned runs for the fourth time in his last six starts and the 11th time in 19 starts this season.
Will one of the league's highest win totals and lowest ERA's (2.38) be good enough to earn him the starting nod Tuesday from Boston Red Sox manager John Farrell? A's manager Bob Melvin said he's happy not to have to decide between the likes of Kazmir, Seattle's Felix Hernandez, whom the A's will face Friday night, and Detroit's Max Scherzer.
"He's been as consistent as anybody in the league," Melvin said. "It seems like (Kazmir's starts) are all the same. He gives up zero, one or two runs and always keeps us in the game."
Pitching for the first time in his career against the Giants, Kazmir took a no-hitter into the fifth inning before left fielder Michael Morse led off with a single. He walked one and extended his streak of scoreless innings to 13.
As usual, the A's backed Kazmir with a powerful offensive assault, bombing Giants right-hander Tim Hudson (7-6) for six runs and nine hits in 5 1/3 innings. Kazmir began the day having received the second-most run support (6.1 per game) in the American League.
First baseman Stephen Vogt drove in three runs with two singles, and third baseman Josh Donaldson belted a two-run homer for the A's, whose 58-34 record matches the best 92-game mark in Oakland history.
For Donaldson, the homer can hours after he was told he was being added to Monday's Home Run Derby ahead of the All-Star Game, joining teammate Yoenis Cespedes.
"It's definitely pretty cool," Donaldson said of the Derby invitation. "It's going to be one of those things for me like icing on the cake. I'm going to go out there and put on a show."
The A's led just 1-0 with two outs and nobody on in the top of fifth inning before unleashing a seven-batter bombardment against Hudson that bridged the fifth and sixth innings.
First, catcher John Jaso belted a two-out triple and then scored on an RBI single by Vogt.
After Cespedes struck out to end the fifth, the first four A's batters in the sixth rocked Hudson for extra-base hits to break the game open and send the veteran to the showers saddled with his fourth consecutive loss.
Right fielder Brandon Moss got the flurry in motion with a double, after which Donaldson reached the first row of the right field pavilion with his 20th homer of the season.
Up 4-0, the A's weren't done. Successive doubles by shortstop Jed Lowrie and second baseman Alberto Callaspo put runners on second and third, from where they both scored on Vogt's two-out, two-run single that spelled the end for Hudson.
"They're good," Hudson said of the A's. "At the same time, I feel like we're just as good as they are. They've caught us as bad as we can be. Hopefully sometime this year we'll face them again and we'll do a lot better."
The former A's All-Star, who has never beaten his old mates in two career starts, struck out four and walked three (two intentionally) in the fifth outing of six innings or fewer in his last seven starts. Hudson began the season going at least six innings in 10 consecutive starts, not counting a suspended game in Colorado on May 22.
Jaso, Moss and Donaldson joined Vogt with two hits apiece for the A's, who outhit the Giants 10-6.
Center fielder Gregor Blanco's fifth-inning double was the only extra-base hit for the Giants. San Francisco right fielder Hunter Pence had two singles in his 34th multi-hit game of the season, which is tops in the National League.
San Francisco avoided a shutout by collecting three hits in the eighth inning against A's right-handed reliever Dan Otero. Third baseman Pablo Sandoval hit an RBI single.
"It was a tough series," Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. "We played a good club, a great staff. The guy we faced today, he's had a heck of a half. A lot of clubs haven't done a lot with him."
NOTES: The game was delayed about 10 minutes between the third and fourth innings so that umpire crew chief Angel Hernandez could replace Adrian Johnson behind the plate. Johnson had to leave the game after getting hit in the mask with a foul tip. ... The game ended on a rare walk-off call reversal at first base, with the A's successfully challenging a safe call on Giants CF Gregor Blanco. ... Giants RHP Tim Lincecum's game-worn cap from his second career no-hitter on June 25 against the San Diego Padres, as well as an official scorecard from the game, were donated to the Baseball Hall of Fame in a pregame ceremony. ... A's manager Bob Melvin had a brief chat with San Francisco 49ers coach Jim Harbaugh before the game. "I told him to talk to anybody he wants, but stay away from (pitcher Jeff) Samardzija," Melvin said, referring to his recently acquired right-hander, a former star wide receiver at Notre Dame. ... The Giants activated 2B Ehire Adrianza from the disabled list to complete a transaction they initiated Wednesday night by optioning OF Juan Perez to Triple-A Fresno.
