MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament | The Salt Lake Tribune
MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament
Cleveland * Allowing nine runs in the last two innings wasn't the worst thing that happened to the New York Yankees on Thursday.
New York's 9-3 loss to the Cleveland Indians was overshadowed by the news that rookie sensation Masahiro Tanaka has a partially torn ligament in his right elbow.
General manager Brian Cashman said in a conference call during the game that Tanaka could return in six weeks, but didn't rule out the possibility of Tommy John surgery if the right-hander doesn't respond to a rehab program.
"Certainly disappointed for our player, for our organization," Cashman said. "He's been an important piece. We have a tremendously gifted and tough player. We'll see how he responds."
"It is what it is," manager Joe Girardi said. "We're not going to have him for at least six weeks and that's the tough part, but I'm optimistic that we'll have him back."
Tanaka was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday and had an MRI in New York, one day after his worst major league outing. He flew to Seattle on Thursday.
Cashman said Tanaka saw three doctors, including Yankees head physician Dr. Christopher Ahmad, and all three agreed that a six-week rehab program was the best option at this time.
"If we knew today that the best course of action was Tommy John surgery, despite the name and the amount of the investment, we would be doing Tommy John surgery," Cashman said.
Girardi, looking for any positive sign, said, "Guys have had success doing this and we'll keep our fingers crossed. That gives you reason for optimism that he's going to pitch again for us this year."
Tanaka, who is tied for the major league lead with 12 wins, allowed five runs and 10 hits Tuesday night in a 5-3 loss to the Indians. The All-Star is 12-4 with a 2.51 ERA in 18 starts, but has lost three of his past four outings.
story continues below
The injury is a huge blow to a battered Yankees rotation already was missing CC Sabathia, Ivan Nova and Michael Pineda to injuries. Tanaka had been a stabilizing ace in his first season since arriving from Japan.
"We've lost 80 percent of it," Girardi said. "There's really not a whole lot that you can go back and redo. You just gotta go out and find a way."
Copyright 2014 The Salt Lake Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Masahiro Tanaka has partially torn ligament in elbow, will undergo six-week rehab program but Tommy John surgery still possibility - NY Daily News
Rich Schultz/Getty Images Masahiro Tanaka's season could be in jeopardy as he will undergo a six-week rehab program for a partially torn ligament in his elbow.
CLEVELAND - It wasn't the worst news possible for the Yankees, but it certainly wasn't what they were hoping to hear.
Masahiro Tanaka was examined by three doctors in Seattle on Thursday -Yankees team physician Chris Ahmad, Dodgers team physician Neal ElAttrache and Mets medical director David Altchek - each of whom diagnosed the ace righthander with a partial tear in the UCL in his right elbow.
General manager Brian Cashman said the doctors recommended a course of treatment which includes a PRP injection, rest, an exercise routine and eventually a throwing program. If all goes well, Tanaka could be back on a big-league mound in six weeks.
"All three doctors agree on the diagnosis and the rehab protocol," Cashman said during a conference call with reporters Thursday night. "We are going to follow their recommendation and none of them recommend surgery at this time. They're all hopeful that in roughly maybe a six-week period that we will have a pitcher back if he responds positively."
Should the treatment and rest not take care of the issue, Tommy John surgery would then become an option, costing Tanaka the rest of this year and likely most of the 2015 season.
"If he's a failed rehab, certainly it does not rule out that Tommy John would be the recommendation," Cashman said. "If the pain doesn't subside or it comes back like he's currently experiencing right now, continuing to reappear, then I think the rehab and recommendation factors would change."
Cashman said the Yankees have had other pitchers go through this and have success without surgery, though he declined to say which pitchers.
"It's not one of those situations that fixes all people," Cashman said. "Depending on the circumstances and the size of the tear, ligaments can repair themselves.
"We clearly are going to follow their rehab protocols and their suggestions. If this was an obvious situation that he needed surgery at the outset, then that's what we'd be doing. But that's not what we're getting."
Dr. Ahmad - and virtually every other orthopedist of note - is in Seattle for the American Orthopedic Society for Sports Medicine, so the Yankees put their ace on a plane to head across the country to be examined by the three doctors.
The tear is a new injury, Cashman said, as it did not show up on the MRI taken on Tanaka's arm before he signed his seven-year, $155 million deal in January.
Jason Miller/Getty Images Tanaka is 12-4 with a 2.51 ERA before he begins experiencing soreness in his right elbow.
"The one thing that all three physicians have conveyed is that it is a small tear in the ligament," Cashman said. "If we knew today that the best course of action was Tommy John surgery, despite the name and the amount of the investment, we would be doing Tommy John surgery."
Tanaka had been the best pitcher in the American League this season for the first three months, going 11-1 with a 1.99 ERA in his first 14 starts. He's 1-3 with a 4.25 in his past four, though he never complained of any elbow soreness until Tuesday night after his loss to the Indians.
Tanaka allowed five runs on 10 hits in 6.2 innings on Tuesday, but his fastball was still clocking in between 92-94 mph during his final two innings and he walked only one batter in the game, showing no signs of elbow trouble.
"I'm certainly disappointed for our player," Cashman said. "I'm disappointed for our organization. He's an important piece. We've had a lot of important pieces that we've seen miss action and he's an important piece as well.
"We have to continue to figure a way to plug the hole and also be hopeful and optimistic for Masahiro that he responds positively to the treatment protocols that they've put in place and that we can have the player back at his normal capabilities at a future date. Hopefully no more than six weeks. Time will tell.
"It's a disappointing situation and one that none of us wanted to be talking about or experiencing. Unfortunately the facts are the facts."
Tanaka is the fourth starter to land on the disabled list this season, joining Ivan Nova, Michael Pineda and CC Sabathia. Nova (Tommy John surgery) and Sabathia (knee) are done for the year, while Pineda isn't expected back until late-August.
Tanaka's situation leaves the Yankees in a precarious position with the trade deadline only three weeks away as the team remains within a few games of first place in the AL East. Cashman said he would continue to do whatever it takes to improve the Yankees as the deadline approaches.
"We've been aggressive because now we've got four starters that we were planning to have in the rotation are out," Cashman said. "We will continue to be aggressive unless I'm told otherwise. We are in the middle of a division fight and we want to stay in the fight, so we'll continue to look at any opportunities and options that present themselves to upgrade."
