MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament | The Salt Lake Tribune
MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament
Cleveland * Allowing nine runs in the last two innings wasn't the worst thing that happened to the New York Yankees on Thursday.
New York's 9-3 loss to the Cleveland Indians was overshadowed by the news that rookie sensation Masahiro Tanaka has a partially torn ligament in his right elbow.
General manager Brian Cashman said in a conference call during the game that Tanaka could return in six weeks, but didn't rule out the possibility of Tommy John surgery if the right-hander doesn't respond to a rehab program.
"Certainly disappointed for our player, for our organization," Cashman said. "He's been an important piece. We have a tremendously gifted and tough player. We'll see how he responds."
"It is what it is," manager Joe Girardi said. "We're not going to have him for at least six weeks and that's the tough part, but I'm optimistic that we'll have him back."
Tanaka was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday and had an MRI in New York, one day after his worst major league outing. He flew to Seattle on Thursday.
Cashman said Tanaka saw three doctors, including Yankees head physician Dr. Christopher Ahmad, and all three agreed that a six-week rehab program was the best option at this time.
"If we knew today that the best course of action was Tommy John surgery, despite the name and the amount of the investment, we would be doing Tommy John surgery," Cashman said.
Girardi, looking for any positive sign, said, "Guys have had success doing this and we'll keep our fingers crossed. That gives you reason for optimism that he's going to pitch again for us this year."
Tanaka, who is tied for the major league lead with 12 wins, allowed five runs and 10 hits Tuesday night in a 5-3 loss to the Indians. The All-Star is 12-4 with a 2.51 ERA in 18 starts, but has lost three of his past four outings.
story continues below
The injury is a huge blow to a battered Yankees rotation already was missing CC Sabathia, Ivan Nova and Michael Pineda to injuries. Tanaka had been a stabilizing ace in his first season since arriving from Japan.
"We've lost 80 percent of it," Girardi said. "There's really not a whole lot that you can go back and redo. You just gotta go out and find a way."
Copyright 2014 The Salt Lake Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Mets' Matt Harvey has advice for Yankees' Masahiro Tanaka | NJ.com
CLEVELAND -- Matt Harvey had some advice for Masahiro Tanaka after hearing the Yankees' ace had a partial elbow ligament tear and would try to rehab it rather than have season-ending Tommy John surgery.
"Go with what you feel," Harvey said, according to The Star-Ledger's Michael Fensom.
Doctors told the Yankees Thursday that Tanaka had a partial tear of his ulnar collateral ligament, general manager Brian Cashman said.
But they also said that the damage was small enough that the 25-year-old Japanese righty could return to The Bronx in six weeks with a rehab plan that includes an injection of platelet-enriched blood into the elbow, rest and a throwing program, Cashman said.
But if it doesn't work, the GM said, Tommy John surgery -- which usually sidelines a pitcher for between 12-18 months -- would be the most likely option.
It would also effectively tank the Yankees' playoff hopes.
Harvery, the Mets' ace, dealt with a similar, but different, situation in 2013.
In August of that year, Harvey was diagnosed with a partially torn UCL. But he was given an option: Try to rehab it or get Tommy John.
Harvey at first tried to avoid the knife, but he realized after a few weeks that was a bad idea and opted for the surgery in October 2013. Harvey isn't expected to return until 2015.
Though Harvey ultimately picked surgery, he said he believed Tanaka could rehab his tear.
"I think everybody is different," Harvey said. "No one is saying he can't rehab, be completely fine and never have an issue again. For me personally it was a mental thing and something I no longer wanted to think about."
Harvey said that Tanaka will have to make his own decision, too.
"I would tell him to go with what you feel," Harvey said. "I didn't listen to anybody. I went off of my personal feelings. It's your body that you want to throw with again, obviously. If you wanna go out and try not to have (surgery) and your mind is set to that and you're 100 percent committed to that then all the more power to you. But if it's the other way around, go get it done. For me, it took a while, obviously, and I went south to Pensacola, Fla., to have surgery."
