MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament | The Salt Lake Tribune
MLB: Yankees pitcher Tanaka has partially torn elbow ligament
Cleveland * Allowing nine runs in the last two innings wasn't the worst thing that happened to the New York Yankees on Thursday.
New York's 9-3 loss to the Cleveland Indians was overshadowed by the news that rookie sensation Masahiro Tanaka has a partially torn ligament in his right elbow.
General manager Brian Cashman said in a conference call during the game that Tanaka could return in six weeks, but didn't rule out the possibility of Tommy John surgery if the right-hander doesn't respond to a rehab program.
"Certainly disappointed for our player, for our organization," Cashman said. "He's been an important piece. We have a tremendously gifted and tough player. We'll see how he responds."
"It is what it is," manager Joe Girardi said. "We're not going to have him for at least six weeks and that's the tough part, but I'm optimistic that we'll have him back."
Tanaka was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday and had an MRI in New York, one day after his worst major league outing. He flew to Seattle on Thursday.
Cashman said Tanaka saw three doctors, including Yankees head physician Dr. Christopher Ahmad, and all three agreed that a six-week rehab program was the best option at this time.
"If we knew today that the best course of action was Tommy John surgery, despite the name and the amount of the investment, we would be doing Tommy John surgery," Cashman said.
Girardi, looking for any positive sign, said, "Guys have had success doing this and we'll keep our fingers crossed. That gives you reason for optimism that he's going to pitch again for us this year."
Tanaka, who is tied for the major league lead with 12 wins, allowed five runs and 10 hits Tuesday night in a 5-3 loss to the Indians. The All-Star is 12-4 with a 2.51 ERA in 18 starts, but has lost three of his past four outings.
story continues below
The injury is a huge blow to a battered Yankees rotation already was missing CC Sabathia, Ivan Nova and Michael Pineda to injuries. Tanaka had been a stabilizing ace in his first season since arriving from Japan.
"We've lost 80 percent of it," Girardi said. "There's really not a whole lot that you can go back and redo. You just gotta go out and find a way."
Copyright 2014 The Salt Lake Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Yankees' Tanaka Has Small Ligament Tear, Will Try to Rehab Elbow - Businessweek
New York Yankees rookie Masahiro Tanaka has a "small" ligament tear in his pitching elbow and will be sidelined at least six weeks, General Manager Brian Cashman said.
Three doctors recommended that Tanaka, who is 12-4 for the Yankees this season after coming to Major League Baseball from Japan, try to rehabilitate the elbow, Cashman told reporters last night on a conference call.
If the rehab is not successful, Tanaka probably would need Tommy John surgery and would miss 12 to 18 months.
"Hopefully no more than six weeks. Time will tell," Cashman said. "It's a disappointing situation and one that none of us wanted to be talking about or experiencing."
Tanaka, 25, was placed on the 15-day disabled list two days ago with inflammation in his right elbow, a day after allowing five runs and 10 hits in 6 2/3 innings at Cleveland for the worst start in his MLB debut season.
Tanaka signed a seven-year, $155 million contract with the Yankees in January that's the fifth richest for a pitcher in major league history. New York also paid $20 million to Japan's Rakuten Golden Eagles for the right to sign Tanaka.
The Yankees, who lost 9-3 last night in Cleveland, are in third place in the American League East division with a 46-45 record. Tanaka is the fourth member of the Yankees' opening day starting pitching rotation on the disabled list, along with CC Sabathia, Ivan Nova and Michael Pineda.
"We've had a lot of important pieces that we've seen miss action, and he's an important piece as well," Cashman said. "We have to continue to figure a way to plug the hole, and also be hopeful and optimistic for Masahiro."
To contact the editor responsible for this story: Rob Gloster at rgloster@bloomberg.net
