No U-turn in taking wrestling from death list to Olympic shortlist, says IOC
College Sports
June 1, 2013
By: Mark Palmer
Examiner.com

Did the International Olympic Committee make a U-turn in putting wrestling -- voted off the list of Olympic core sports in February -- on the shortlist for the 2020 Olympics?

Did the International Olympic Committee reverse itself - and make a U-turn - by putting wrestling on its shortlist of three sports for consideration for the 2020 Olympics less than four months after eliminating the sport from its roster of core sports?



On Friday, IOC president Jacques Rogge said no.
 
"I don't see any shortcomings in the system, I don't see any errors in the system," said Rogge at the end of a three-day meeting of the IOC Executive Board in St Petersburg, Russia, which, on Wednesday, had voted wrestling, along with squash and a combined baseball-softball bid, to a shortlist of sports which will be considered by the entire IOC in Buenos Aires, Argentina in September.
 
"We do not want change for change," Rogge added. "The purpose is to have the best possible Olympic Games."
 
In seeking to make the Olympics more attractive to younger-generation fans and sponsors - while also maintaining a limit of 28 sports and approximately 10,500 participating athletes that has held fast since the 2000 Sydney Olympics -- the IOC invited some newer sports such as inline skating, sport climbing, and wakeboarding to put forth bids for one open spot on the 2020 and 2024 Olympic sports roster. These sports, along with karate and the Chinese martial art of wushu, and the three on the eventual shortlist, made 30-minute presentations to the IOC Executive Board on Wednesday.
 
After the IOC announced that wrestling - a sport that traces its roots back to 708 B.C., and was one of the original sports of the first Modern Olympics in 1896 - had survived the first round of cuts on Wednesday, some questioned the reversal of decision. Or, to put the issue in starker terms, why would the IOC eliminate a sport in February, only to put it back into consideration in May?
 
It has been argued that the IOC saw the error in its ways in eliminating wrestling. Or, perhaps the IOC, stung by the overwhelmingly negative reaction to the decision worldwide - including outright mockery, and suggestions of shady politics -- sought out a face-saving way out of its decision from earlier this year. 

Rogge addressed the matter on Friday. He brushed aside suggestions that, if the entire IOC membership were to vote in September to return wrestling to the Olympics, it would have erased the entire purpose of eliminating the sport in the first place back in February.
 
"If there is the consideration that one sport is better than the other it should be chosen even if it is an existing sport," said the IOC president, who has served in that position for twelve years, and whose term is to expire this fall. "Do not bring a new one in for the sake of a new one."
 
Rogge cited rule changes and other reforms implemented by FILA, the international wrestling federation, just two weeks ago.
 
"If you look at the reaction of the federation to their admitted shortcomings, the international federation drastically changed its own governance, including (installing) women in the executive board -- which was a criticism of the report from the IOC -- changing the format of the competition, changing the presentation," said Rogge.
 
A week after FILA revealed new rules to make the sport more fan-friendly and action-oriented - along with changes to open new opportunities for women on the mat and in governing the organization -- Rogge said, "I think they had the good answer and the good reaction. They obviously were taken a bit by a surprise by the fact they could leave the core group."
 
"The federation definitely understood the reasons why they were ousted, and they reacted what they normally should have done."
 
Rogge admitted that the IOC would have been criticized had it axed a sport other than wrestling from the Olympic roster.
 
"Had we decided to eliminate another sport from the core sports, such as modern pentathlon, we would have been criticized for having betrayed the legacy of Pierre de Coubertin, who invented the sport." (de Coubertin is considered to be the father of the Modern Olympics.)
 
"Had we decided to eliminate taekwondo, we would have been accused of betraying the spirit of Asian sport, I mean we would have had criticism for any sport that would have been eliminated."
 
The man who may take Rogge's job this fall also weighed in.
 
IOC Vice-President Thomas Bach, considered to be the frontrunner among six candidates to succeed Rogge as president this fall, said, "Wrestling gave a very good presentation. You could clearly see they got the message. They took the right decisions. Sometimes for great reforms you need pressure."
 
Quotes compiled from the Chicago Tribune and Yahoo! Sports.



Wrestling gets off the mat, makes move toward the future
Washington Post

 Wrestling got a repechage last week - a second chance to keep its spot on the Olympic roster for 2020 after losing its "core sport" designation in February. If wrestling ultimately fails in its bid for reinstatement, 2016 might be the last time it is held at an Olympics.

The sport waged a world-wide lobbying blitz during the three months since it was axed, and it seems to have paid off. Thus will one of the events held at the Ancient Olympics compete with baseball/softball and squash for the one remaining spot on the crowded Olympic calendar. 



The 15-member IOC executive board voted behind closed doors - naturally - in St. Petersburg (Russia, not Florida; the IOC doesn't do Florida), and wrestling got eight votes. That, in IOC parlance, is a landslide. The sports that were eliminated? Karate, rock climbing, roller sports, wakeboarding and wushu, a form of martial arts. 

On Sept. 8, the full IOC will determine wrestling's fate, at the same time it chooses a host for the 2020 Games. Istanbul is in the running, and wrestling is very popular in Turkey; that may help its case considerably.

Wrestling overhauled itself after the February vote, starting with the leadership of its international governing body, FILA, then acting to make the sport more inclusive to girls and women and guaranteeing there be female representation on FILA's board. Then it changed its scoring: The wrestler with the most points will win, instead of the wrestler who wins two out of three rounds. Passivity and stalling with be penalized more severely, and takedowns will be worth more points than merely shoving an opponent out of bounds.

Those changes were designed to make the sport more exciting. They also were long overdue - 20 years overdue, according to Jim Scherr, a former CEO of the U.S. Olympic Committee and a former Olympic wrestler. 

They should also be a cautionary tale for other longtime Olympic events: Resist modernization at your peril. 

The modern pentathlon used to be the most oxymoronically named sport at the Olympics; little about it was actually modern. But that sport saw the threat coming and changed its format, making it far more compelling to watch. 

And that's what the IOC wants: continued boffo ratings for its Games. In fairness, that's no different from what college and professional sports want; it's just that the Olympics likes to tout itself as a Lollapalooza of amateur athletics (although no one really buys that anymore).

But the IOC does have a unique product to sell. For two weeks every two years, Americans - and everyone else in the world - can see sports and events that they otherwise might not even know existed. 

Wrestling doesn't quite fit that mold, but it's not far off.

The real shame is that it took a near-death blow by the IOC to get the attention of the sport. Being reinstated as a provisional sport is a long step down from being a "core" sport. But it is wrestling's best - and perhaps last - chance. Here's hoping the sport makes it through the repechage and back into the main draw where it belongs.

 

For previous columns by Tracee Hamilton, visit washingtonpost.com/hamilton.
