LPA outside PH now a tropical depression; expected to enter PAR Saturday - PAGASA
InterAksyon.com
The online news portal of TV5
MANILA - The low pressure area (LPA) outside the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) has intensified into a tropical depression and is expected to enter the country in the next 48 hours, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) said.
In an interview, PAGASA weather forecaster Connie Dadivas said that as of 4 p.m., the tropical depression was located at 990 kilometers east of Northern Mindanao (9.8degN, 135.4degE) with maximum sustained winds of 45 kilometers per hour and is forecast to remain stationary.
According to her, once the tropical cyclone enters the PAR on Saturday morning, it will be locally named "Henry" -- the eighth tropical cyclone to enter the country this year and the third for this month of July.
Dadivas said the tropical depression is expected to intensify into a tropical storm since it is still in the sea and its movement is on a northwest direction.
By Sunday or Monday, Dadivas said that rains will be experienced in the Bicol region and some parts of the Visayas due to the tropical depression.
Meanwhile, in the next 24 hours, Dadivas said the southwest monsoon will continue to affect the western section of Luzon.
The southwest monsoon or "hanging habagat" affecting Luzon -- which is associated with the occurrence of intermittent to continuous rains -- is the prevailing wind system during the rainy season.
Dadivas said Metro Manila and the provinces of La Union, Benguet, Pangasinan, Bataan, Zambales, Palawan and Mindoro will experience occasional rains while the rest of the country will have partly cloudy to cloudy skies with isolated rainshowers and thunderstorms.
She also said the state weather bureau issued a gale warning as strong to gale force winds associated with the surge of the southwest monsoon which would affect the western seaboard of Luzon.
"Fishing boats and other small sea crafts are advised not to venture out into the sea while larger sea vessels are alerted against big waves," PAGASA warned.
It also said that moderate to strong winds blowing from the southwest to south will prevail over Luzon and its coastal waters will be moderate to rough.
Elsewhere, light to moderate winds blowing from the south to southwest with slight to moderate seas and coming from the southwest will prevail over the rest of the country with moderate to rough seas.
