Potential New Culprit Behind Alzheimer-s
Abnormal levels of certain protein are more common in affected patients, study reports
WebMD News from HealthDay
By Randy Dotinga
HealthDay Reporter
WEDNESDAY, July 16, 2014 (HealthDay News) -- Although the exact reason why Alzheimer-s disease develops still remains elusive, scientists report that they-ve found a new protein that may play an important role in the devastating memory illness.
What they don-t yet know is whether or not this new protein -- called TDP-43 -- is a cause of Alzheimer-s disease, or if it-s something that develops due to Alzheimer-s disease.
It-s too early to know if this finding could have any effect on the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of Alzheimer-s disease. For now, "we really need to understand what this protein is doing and its relationship to other proteins," said the study-s lead author Dr. Keith Josephs, a professor of neurology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
Scientists studying Alzheimer-s disease have long been interested in two types of proteins in the brain known as beta-amyloid and tau. In Alzheimer-s patients, the proteins create a kind of gunk in the brain made up of "plaques" from beta-amyloid and "tangles" from tau.
Experts believe the plaques and tangles may cause Alzheimer-s, Josephs said, but they don-t know for sure.
The new study looked at a third protein called TDP-43, which has been linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig-s disease) and senility caused by damage to the frontal lobe of the brain.
The researchers examined the brains of 342 people who-d been diagnosed with Alzheimer-s disease through autopsies. (Alzheimer-s cannot be definitively confirmed when patients are alive.) Almost 200 of them had TDP-43, according to the study.
The study is unlike some others because it looked at two types of patients who were diagnosed with Alzheimer-s after death -- those who showed symptoms in life and those who didn-t. Abnormal levels of TDP-43 were found in those who had the disease and were significantly affected by it.
After adjusting their statistics so they wouldn-t be thrown off by various factors, the investigators found that those with abnormal levels of TDP-43 were 10 times more likely to have thinking problems such as memory loss at death than the other patients.
How could people have signs of Alzheimer-s, but not have symptoms? That-s not clear, Josephs said. But, maybe people who have plaques and tangles don-t develop symptoms unless they also have TDP-43, the researchers hypothesized.
How the new protein might be connected to Alzheimer-s is also a mystery. "It-s possible that it takes a while to get this protein," he said. "Maybe you have to have Alzheimer-s developing for 25 years before this protein comes into play," Josephs suggested.
Dr. Anton Porsteinsson, director of the Alzheimer-s Disease Care, Research and Education Program at the University of Rochester School of Medicine in Rochester, N.Y., noted that the protein in question has been linked to other brain diseases.
"Does this maybe mean that neurodegenerative disorders are part of a broader continuum?" asked Porsteinsson, who-s reviewed the findings of the new study. He added that the diseases may share a similar cause or similarities in their later stages.
Josephs said he plans on continuing research into the role this protein plays in Alzheimer-s.
The study findings are scheduled to be presented Wednesday at the Alzheimer-s Association International Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. Until published in a peer-reviewed journal, findings presented at meetings should be viewed as preliminary.

A protein discovered less than a decade ago appears to play a role in whether symptoms of Alzheimer's disease emerge, suggesting another avenue for exploration in efforts to find a treatment.
An abnormal form of the novel protein dubbed TDP-43 was tied to smaller brain volume and almost guaranteed that people with it would suffer memory loss, according to findings presented today at the Alzheimeras Association International Conference in Copenhagen. Almost one in five of those without it had no symptoms, despite deposits in their brains of the amyloid plaque that defines Alzheimer's.
Researchers have focused on two proteins, beta amyloid and tau, in a century-long quest to understand Alzheimer's. While basic research is still being conducted to uncover why those two proteins congregate in the brains of patients, there has been little progress in finding medicines to control them and slow or prevent the most common form of dementia in the elderly.
"This injects new vigor in the fight against Alzheimer's disease," said Keith Josephs, the lead author and a neurologist at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, in a telephone interview. "The world has focused on two proteins, beta amyloid and tau. TDP-43 is going to be the new kid on the block."
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB:US) is conducting preclinical tests to understand TDP-43 and its potential as a target for neurodegenerative diseases, Shannon Altimari, a spokeswoman for the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company, said in an e-mailed statement. Ben Wolozin of Boston University's Alzheimeras Disease Center, is starting a company called Aquinnah Pharmaceuticals to develop compounds targeting the protein.
'Major Player'
Developing potential drugs to target the protein would take years, and the pharmaceutical industry's track record so far gives little cause for optimism. Still, having a goal to shoot at is encouraging, Wolozin said in a phone interview.
"This is beginning to present the case that actually TDP-43 is a major player in the cognitive loss associated with Alzheimeras disease," he said.
Researchers are still trying to tease out details about how TDP-43 works. It's found in the nucleus of the cell and transcribes DNA, the first step in gene expression. It's active during the production and programming of other proteins that have specific roles in the cell, thereby helping determine how the body will function.
In its abnormal form, the protein is found floating in the cytoplasm, the fluid outside of the nucleus. There are several differences between the normal and abnormal forms of TDP-43, including its weight, Josephs said. It's possible the abnormal form migrates out of the nucleus and can't get back in, he said.
Memory Structure
If it's not in the nucleus, it can't be doing its job, Josephs said in a telephone interview.
The researchers examined 342 people who had donated their brains to science for the presence of an abnormal form of TDP-43, finding it in 57 percent of the group. They also examined the volume of the hippocampus, the main memory structure in the brain that's damaged and shrinks in Alzheimer's patients.
"The brains of the ones that had the abnormal protein had more severe memory loss than those who did not, they had more severe shrinkage in the hippocampus and most importantly, of those with the protein, 98 percent were cognitively affected before they died," Josephs said.
Among the elderly patients who didn't have an abundance of the abnormal protein, just 81 percent were suffering memory loss, even if they had amyloid buildup in their brains, he said.
'Blown Away'
"Almost 20 percent of those without the abnormal protein were normal when they died," he said. "That surprised me. We were all blown away. Even though you have Alzheimer's disease, the plaques and the tangles, you are still 10 times more likely to be normal if the abnormal form is absent."
Studying TDP-43 will be more difficult than work on amyloid, which has been largely focused on trying to prevent it from accumulating and removing it once it has settled into the brain. The new protein is essential for the normal function of cells, and it's likely that it becomes damaged at some point after previously working fine. Finding the trigger may be key.
"Cells depend on the protein," Josephs said. "We're going to have to prevent it from becoming bad."
For Related News and Information: Alzheimer's Onset Delay in U.S. and Europe Gives Prevention Hope
To contact the reporters on this story: Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at mcortez@bloomberg.net; Naomi Kresge in Berlin at nkresge@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Reg Gale at rgale5@bloomberg.net Phil Serafino
