Potential New Culprit Behind Alzheimer-s
Abnormal levels of certain protein are more common in affected patients, study reports
WebMD News from HealthDay
By Randy Dotinga
HealthDay Reporter
WEDNESDAY, July 16, 2014 (HealthDay News) -- Although the exact reason why Alzheimer-s disease develops still remains elusive, scientists report that they-ve found a new protein that may play an important role in the devastating memory illness.
What they don-t yet know is whether or not this new protein -- called TDP-43 -- is a cause of Alzheimer-s disease, or if it-s something that develops due to Alzheimer-s disease.
It-s too early to know if this finding could have any effect on the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of Alzheimer-s disease. For now, "we really need to understand what this protein is doing and its relationship to other proteins," said the study-s lead author Dr. Keith Josephs, a professor of neurology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
Scientists studying Alzheimer-s disease have long been interested in two types of proteins in the brain known as beta-amyloid and tau. In Alzheimer-s patients, the proteins create a kind of gunk in the brain made up of "plaques" from beta-amyloid and "tangles" from tau.
Experts believe the plaques and tangles may cause Alzheimer-s, Josephs said, but they don-t know for sure.
The new study looked at a third protein called TDP-43, which has been linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig-s disease) and senility caused by damage to the frontal lobe of the brain.
The researchers examined the brains of 342 people who-d been diagnosed with Alzheimer-s disease through autopsies. (Alzheimer-s cannot be definitively confirmed when patients are alive.) Almost 200 of them had TDP-43, according to the study.
The study is unlike some others because it looked at two types of patients who were diagnosed with Alzheimer-s after death -- those who showed symptoms in life and those who didn-t. Abnormal levels of TDP-43 were found in those who had the disease and were significantly affected by it.
After adjusting their statistics so they wouldn-t be thrown off by various factors, the investigators found that those with abnormal levels of TDP-43 were 10 times more likely to have thinking problems such as memory loss at death than the other patients.
How could people have signs of Alzheimer-s, but not have symptoms? That-s not clear, Josephs said. But, maybe people who have plaques and tangles don-t develop symptoms unless they also have TDP-43, the researchers hypothesized.
How the new protein might be connected to Alzheimer-s is also a mystery. "It-s possible that it takes a while to get this protein," he said. "Maybe you have to have Alzheimer-s developing for 25 years before this protein comes into play," Josephs suggested.
Dr. Anton Porsteinsson, director of the Alzheimer-s Disease Care, Research and Education Program at the University of Rochester School of Medicine in Rochester, N.Y., noted that the protein in question has been linked to other brain diseases.
"Does this maybe mean that neurodegenerative disorders are part of a broader continuum?" asked Porsteinsson, who-s reviewed the findings of the new study. He added that the diseases may share a similar cause or similarities in their later stages.
Josephs said he plans on continuing research into the role this protein plays in Alzheimer-s.
The study findings are scheduled to be presented Wednesday at the Alzheimer-s Association International Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. Until published in a peer-reviewed journal, findings presented at meetings should be viewed as preliminary.

Researchers are testing some promising drug candidates to halt Alzheimer's dementia - even before symptoms start
At the Alzheimer's Association International Conference in Copenhagen, scientists described five trials that taking the unprecedented step of testing drugs that may prevent the onset of the neurodegenerative disease in people not yet experiencing cognitive decline.
The participants in the trial are all at high risk of developing Alzheimer's either because they carry two copies of the ApoE4 gene, which is associated with a strong chance of developing the disease, or a genetic mutation that triggers the condition much earlier in life, during the 40s.
Most will be testing drugs that target amyloid, the protein that builds up in abnormal amounts in the brains of Alzheimer's patients and triggers other damaging changes that affect memory and cognitive functions. While other scientists reported some encouraging data on the effectiveness of diet, exercise, social support and controlling heart-related risk factors--see our piece about the lifestyle changes that prevented the disease--most experts believe that the best way to prevent Alzheimer's may involve a combination of such lifestyle approaches with an effective drug.
Here's the latest information on the five trials.
1. Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network Trial (DIAN TU)
Who is enrolled: People with a genetic mutation for Alzheimer's disease or those who don't know their genetic status but have a parent or sibling with Alzheimer's-related mutations
When they should enroll: when they are cognitively normal or have mild cognitive impairment
Drugs tested: Two experimental drugs, gantenerumab and solanezumab, both of which are antibodies designed to bind to amyloid and prevent it from forming brain-damaging plaques
2. Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer's Study (A4)
Who is enrolled: People aged 65 to 85 years with normal thinking and memory
When they should enroll: Any time they become age eligible
Drugs tested: Solanezumab, an experimental anti-amyloid compound
3. TOMMORROW
Who is enrolled: Healthy seniors
When they should enroll: When they are cognitively normal or have mild cognitive impairment
Drugs tested: The trial will first pilot a screening test for two genes to see if it can accurately predict risk of mild cognitive impairment. The next phase of the trial will test an experimental compound designed to delay symptoms of mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease in people without symptoms.
4. Alzheimer's Prevention Initiative Autosomal Dominant Alzheimer's Disease Treatment Trial
Who is enrolled: 300 people from a family in Columbia affected by a genetic predisposition to developing Alzheimer's disease early in life
When they should enroll: Before symptoms begin
Drug tested: Anti-amyloid antibody crenezumab
5. Alzheimer's Prevention Initiative APOE4 Treatment Trial
Who is enrolled: people with two copies of APOE4, who are at high risk of developing Alzheimer's disease
When they should enroll: Before cognitive symptoms of Alzheimer's begin
Drugs tested: An immunotherapy that prompts the body's immune system to produce antibodies against amyloid protein, and a beta-secretase inhibitor that blocks the production of certain forms of amyloid.
