Potential New Culprit Behind Alzheimer-s
Abnormal levels of certain protein are more common in affected patients, study reports
WebMD News from HealthDay
By Randy Dotinga
HealthDay Reporter
WEDNESDAY, July 16, 2014 (HealthDay News) -- Although the exact reason why Alzheimer-s disease develops still remains elusive, scientists report that they-ve found a new protein that may play an important role in the devastating memory illness.
What they don-t yet know is whether or not this new protein -- called TDP-43 -- is a cause of Alzheimer-s disease, or if it-s something that develops due to Alzheimer-s disease.
It-s too early to know if this finding could have any effect on the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of Alzheimer-s disease. For now, "we really need to understand what this protein is doing and its relationship to other proteins," said the study-s lead author Dr. Keith Josephs, a professor of neurology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
Scientists studying Alzheimer-s disease have long been interested in two types of proteins in the brain known as beta-amyloid and tau. In Alzheimer-s patients, the proteins create a kind of gunk in the brain made up of "plaques" from beta-amyloid and "tangles" from tau.
Experts believe the plaques and tangles may cause Alzheimer-s, Josephs said, but they don-t know for sure.
The new study looked at a third protein called TDP-43, which has been linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig-s disease) and senility caused by damage to the frontal lobe of the brain.
The researchers examined the brains of 342 people who-d been diagnosed with Alzheimer-s disease through autopsies. (Alzheimer-s cannot be definitively confirmed when patients are alive.) Almost 200 of them had TDP-43, according to the study.
The study is unlike some others because it looked at two types of patients who were diagnosed with Alzheimer-s after death -- those who showed symptoms in life and those who didn-t. Abnormal levels of TDP-43 were found in those who had the disease and were significantly affected by it.
After adjusting their statistics so they wouldn-t be thrown off by various factors, the investigators found that those with abnormal levels of TDP-43 were 10 times more likely to have thinking problems such as memory loss at death than the other patients.
How could people have signs of Alzheimer-s, but not have symptoms? That-s not clear, Josephs said. But, maybe people who have plaques and tangles don-t develop symptoms unless they also have TDP-43, the researchers hypothesized.
How the new protein might be connected to Alzheimer-s is also a mystery. "It-s possible that it takes a while to get this protein," he said. "Maybe you have to have Alzheimer-s developing for 25 years before this protein comes into play," Josephs suggested.
Dr. Anton Porsteinsson, director of the Alzheimer-s Disease Care, Research and Education Program at the University of Rochester School of Medicine in Rochester, N.Y., noted that the protein in question has been linked to other brain diseases.
"Does this maybe mean that neurodegenerative disorders are part of a broader continuum?" asked Porsteinsson, who-s reviewed the findings of the new study. He added that the diseases may share a similar cause or similarities in their later stages.
Josephs said he plans on continuing research into the role this protein plays in Alzheimer-s.
The study findings are scheduled to be presented Wednesday at the Alzheimer-s Association International Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. Until published in a peer-reviewed journal, findings presented at meetings should be viewed as preliminary.

New brain protein tied to Alzheimer's disease | The Salt Lake Tribune
This undated image provided by the Mayo Clinic shows an abnormal TDP-43, the two circular brown blobs, in the brain of a patient with tau neurofibrillary tangle, blue flame shape blob in the middle, and Alzheimers disease during the pathological analyses in Rochester, Minn. Scientists have linked a new protein to Alzheimer's disease, different from the amyloid and tau that make up the sticky brain plaques and tangles long known to be its hallmarks and was discussed Wednesday, July 16, 2014, at the Alzheimer's Association International Conference in Copenhagen. (AP Photo/Mayo Clinic)
Scientists have linked a new protein to Alzheimer's disease, different from the amyloid and tau that make up the sticky brain plaques and tangles long known to be its hallmarks.
The discovery could give a new target for developing drugs and other treatments for Alzheimer's, the most common form of dementia. It also might help explain why many people have plaques and tangles in their brain yet show no symptoms of the disease. Autopsies on 342 brains revealed that people who had the new protein were 10 times more likely to have been mentally impaired when they died than those without it.
The study was discussed Wednesday at the Alzheimer's Association International Conference in Copenhagen, where researchers also described a new type of brain imaging that can show tau tangles in living people for the first time.
For many years, the only sure way to diagnose Alzheimer's disease was after death, when brains could be examined for amyloid and tau. Several companies now make imaging agents that can reveal amyloid on brain scans, and the new research shows an experimental product from Eli Lilly & Co. can do the same for tau.
"I think it will transform the field" because tau correlates better with symptoms than amyloid does, said Dr. Clifford Jack, a Mayo Clinic dementia expert with no role in that work.
"This is very important," agreed Laurie Ryan of the National Institute on Aging, which funded both studies. It should help diagnose Alzheimer's and enroll people in studies testing treatments, she said.
Researchers from Massachusetts General Hospital described the tau work. Scans on 56 older people believed to be cognitively normal showed that tau buildup in several brain regions correlated with memory decline.
Dr. Keith Josephs of the Mayo Clinic led work on the new brain protein, called TDP-43. Everyone has it, but the abnormal form is found in different parts of the cell and in ball-like deposits in certain areas in the brain. It's already been linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, and frontotemporal dementia.
Researchers looked for it in brain samples from 342 people in a study of aging at Mayo. All had amyloid plaques in the brain but many showed no dementia symptoms before they died. Of the 342 participants, 195, or 57 percent, had the abnormal protein. Less than 5 percent of the healthy general population would be expected to have it.
Of those with the protein, 98 percent had dementia symptoms at the time of their death, versus only 81 percent of those without the protein.
story continues below
"If there are 2 million people walking around this country with Alzheimer's but they're not showing any symptoms of it, think of how major that is," Josephs said of the protein's ability to signal risk. "If you have this protein, you're guaranteed to have symptoms. If you do not, you have a 20 percent chance you won't show symptoms even though you have the disease" as defined by amyloid in the brain, he said.
Dr. Eileen Bigio, an Alzheimer's specialist at Northwestern University in Chicago with no role in the work, said the results suggesting the protein plays a role in Alzheimer's were "pretty impressive."
The next step is to find a way to image it in living people, as is being done now with amyloid and tau.
------
Online:
National Institute on Aging: http://www.nia.nih.gov/Alzheimers
Patient, family info: http://www.alzheimers.gov/
Alzheimer's Association: http://www.alz.org
------
Marilynn Marchione can be followed at http://twitter.com/MMarchioneAP
Copyright 2014 The Salt Lake Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
