Potential New Culprit Behind Alzheimer-s
Abnormal levels of certain protein are more common in affected patients, study reports
WebMD News from HealthDay
By Randy Dotinga
HealthDay Reporter
WEDNESDAY, July 16, 2014 (HealthDay News) -- Although the exact reason why Alzheimer-s disease develops still remains elusive, scientists report that they-ve found a new protein that may play an important role in the devastating memory illness.
What they don-t yet know is whether or not this new protein -- called TDP-43 -- is a cause of Alzheimer-s disease, or if it-s something that develops due to Alzheimer-s disease.
It-s too early to know if this finding could have any effect on the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of Alzheimer-s disease. For now, "we really need to understand what this protein is doing and its relationship to other proteins," said the study-s lead author Dr. Keith Josephs, a professor of neurology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
Scientists studying Alzheimer-s disease have long been interested in two types of proteins in the brain known as beta-amyloid and tau. In Alzheimer-s patients, the proteins create a kind of gunk in the brain made up of "plaques" from beta-amyloid and "tangles" from tau.
Experts believe the plaques and tangles may cause Alzheimer-s, Josephs said, but they don-t know for sure.
The new study looked at a third protein called TDP-43, which has been linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig-s disease) and senility caused by damage to the frontal lobe of the brain.
The researchers examined the brains of 342 people who-d been diagnosed with Alzheimer-s disease through autopsies. (Alzheimer-s cannot be definitively confirmed when patients are alive.) Almost 200 of them had TDP-43, according to the study.
The study is unlike some others because it looked at two types of patients who were diagnosed with Alzheimer-s after death -- those who showed symptoms in life and those who didn-t. Abnormal levels of TDP-43 were found in those who had the disease and were significantly affected by it.
After adjusting their statistics so they wouldn-t be thrown off by various factors, the investigators found that those with abnormal levels of TDP-43 were 10 times more likely to have thinking problems such as memory loss at death than the other patients.
How could people have signs of Alzheimer-s, but not have symptoms? That-s not clear, Josephs said. But, maybe people who have plaques and tangles don-t develop symptoms unless they also have TDP-43, the researchers hypothesized.
How the new protein might be connected to Alzheimer-s is also a mystery. "It-s possible that it takes a while to get this protein," he said. "Maybe you have to have Alzheimer-s developing for 25 years before this protein comes into play," Josephs suggested.
Dr. Anton Porsteinsson, director of the Alzheimer-s Disease Care, Research and Education Program at the University of Rochester School of Medicine in Rochester, N.Y., noted that the protein in question has been linked to other brain diseases.
"Does this maybe mean that neurodegenerative disorders are part of a broader continuum?" asked Porsteinsson, who-s reviewed the findings of the new study. He added that the diseases may share a similar cause or similarities in their later stages.
Josephs said he plans on continuing research into the role this protein plays in Alzheimer-s.
The study findings are scheduled to be presented Wednesday at the Alzheimer-s Association International Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. Until published in a peer-reviewed journal, findings presented at meetings should be viewed as preliminary.

Exercise 'may cut dementia risk' | Irish Examiner
Simple lifestyle changes such as taking more exercise and improving diet may protect against dementia in at-risk older adults, research suggests.
Scientists studied the effects of healthier living in 1,260 men and women aged 60 to 77 considered to be at risk of developing dementia due to factors such as their cardiovascular health.
Participants were split into two groups, one of which received an improvement programme that included nutritional guidance, physical exercise, mental training, social activities and heart health management.
After two years, these participants performed significantly better in a comprehensive mental ability test than the other group, that only received regular health advice.
They also did better in specific tests of memory, mental processing speed and executive function, which includes planning, judgment and problem solving.
Lead researcher Professor Miia Kivipelto, from the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, said: "This is the first randomised control trial showing that it is possible to prevent cognitive decline using a multi-domain intervention among older at-risk individuals.
"Participants told us their experience was very positive, and the drop-out rate was only 11% after two years."
The scientists, whose findings were presented at the Alzheimer's Association International Conference (AAIC) in Copenhagen, Denmark, now plan a seven-year follow-up study that will look at rates of dementia and Alzheimer's.
Dr Laura Phipps, from the charity Alzheimer's Research UK, said: "While this study showed benefits of exercise on memory and thinking performance rather than focusing on whether it could prevent dementia, the results add to previous suggestions that adopting an overall healthy lifestyle is important for brain health as we get older. The findings build on previous evidence that several different lifestyle factors may be involved in our cognitive health, including exercise and heart health.
"It will be interesting to see the results of an extended version of this study and to look at the effects of these interventions on overall dementia risk within the group. It is also important for research to take into account other potential factors such as genetics in addition to age and cardiovascular health as indicators of dementia risk."
