Potential New Culprit Behind Alzheimer-s
Abnormal levels of certain protein are more common in affected patients, study reports
WebMD News from HealthDay
By Randy Dotinga
HealthDay Reporter
WEDNESDAY, July 16, 2014 (HealthDay News) -- Although the exact reason why Alzheimer-s disease develops still remains elusive, scientists report that they-ve found a new protein that may play an important role in the devastating memory illness.
What they don-t yet know is whether or not this new protein -- called TDP-43 -- is a cause of Alzheimer-s disease, or if it-s something that develops due to Alzheimer-s disease.
It-s too early to know if this finding could have any effect on the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of Alzheimer-s disease. For now, "we really need to understand what this protein is doing and its relationship to other proteins," said the study-s lead author Dr. Keith Josephs, a professor of neurology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
Scientists studying Alzheimer-s disease have long been interested in two types of proteins in the brain known as beta-amyloid and tau. In Alzheimer-s patients, the proteins create a kind of gunk in the brain made up of "plaques" from beta-amyloid and "tangles" from tau.
Experts believe the plaques and tangles may cause Alzheimer-s, Josephs said, but they don-t know for sure.
The new study looked at a third protein called TDP-43, which has been linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig-s disease) and senility caused by damage to the frontal lobe of the brain.
The researchers examined the brains of 342 people who-d been diagnosed with Alzheimer-s disease through autopsies. (Alzheimer-s cannot be definitively confirmed when patients are alive.) Almost 200 of them had TDP-43, according to the study.
The study is unlike some others because it looked at two types of patients who were diagnosed with Alzheimer-s after death -- those who showed symptoms in life and those who didn-t. Abnormal levels of TDP-43 were found in those who had the disease and were significantly affected by it.
After adjusting their statistics so they wouldn-t be thrown off by various factors, the investigators found that those with abnormal levels of TDP-43 were 10 times more likely to have thinking problems such as memory loss at death than the other patients.
How could people have signs of Alzheimer-s, but not have symptoms? That-s not clear, Josephs said. But, maybe people who have plaques and tangles don-t develop symptoms unless they also have TDP-43, the researchers hypothesized.
How the new protein might be connected to Alzheimer-s is also a mystery. "It-s possible that it takes a while to get this protein," he said. "Maybe you have to have Alzheimer-s developing for 25 years before this protein comes into play," Josephs suggested.
Dr. Anton Porsteinsson, director of the Alzheimer-s Disease Care, Research and Education Program at the University of Rochester School of Medicine in Rochester, N.Y., noted that the protein in question has been linked to other brain diseases.
"Does this maybe mean that neurodegenerative disorders are part of a broader continuum?" asked Porsteinsson, who-s reviewed the findings of the new study. He added that the diseases may share a similar cause or similarities in their later stages.
Josephs said he plans on continuing research into the role this protein plays in Alzheimer-s.
The study findings are scheduled to be presented Wednesday at the Alzheimer-s Association International Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. Until published in a peer-reviewed journal, findings presented at meetings should be viewed as preliminary.

Dementia risk falling for elderly in the West: Better education and drugs keep brains sharp
Average American over 60 has 44% lower risk of disease than 30 years ago
Number of new cases in Germany has also 'significantly declined'
Better control of high blood pressure and cholesterol most likely reason
But rates in poorer counties are increasing due to obesity and diabetes
By Fiona Macrae
Published: 14:25 GMT, 15 July 2014 | Updated: 07:14 GMT, 16 July 2014
The average pensioner living in a developed country is less likely to suffer from dementia today than in the past, doctors say.
Studies show that the risk of the disease seems to be falling in the UK, US and other wealthy nations.
The increased use of blood pressure and cholesterol-busting drugs and better standards of education are credited with keeping the brain sharper for longer.
Rates of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias are falling in the developed world - but increasing in poorer nations, new research has shown. Image shows a brain with Alzheimer's
However, a major Alzheimer's conference heard that there is no room for complacency.
The ageing population means the number of cases is still rising in rich countries, while the number of people with dementia in the developing world is thought to have been severely underestimated.
And improvements in brain health in recent years could be jeopardised by the rising tide of obesity.
A series of studies have shown that a person's risk of Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia is falling in the US and Europe, the Alzheimer's Association International Conference in Copenhagen heard.
A US government-funded study found that an American aged 60-plus today is almost half as likely to develop dementia than someone of a similar age did roughly 30 years ago.
The fall in risk has been particularly steep in women, and the average age at which dementia is diagnosed has risen - from 80 in the 1970s to 85 today.
A similar British analysis, published in the Lancet medical journal last year, found the chances of developing dementia in old age have fallen by almost a quarter since the 1990s. Studies from Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands show a similar pattern.
It is thought that the increasing number of drugs prescribed to combat heart disease is helping to keep dementia at bay by keeping the brain healthy. The fall in smoking, another risk factor for dementia, is also likely to have helped.
Experts say rates of dementia are falling thanks to risk factors for the disease - such as high blood pressure and cholesterol - are better controlled
And increasing access to education is thought to be vital, with studies showing that the longer a person spends at school and university the slower their descent into the disease.
More challenging careers have a similar protective effect. Claudia Satizabal, of Boston University, who compiled the US figures, said greater equality in the job market could help explain why rates have fallen particularly among women.
'The results bring some hope that perhaps dementia cases may be preventable or at least delayed,' she added.
'The number of people aged 65 and older is going to almost treble in the next 40 years worldwide. This means that dementia is still going to be front and centre as a public health issue' - Dr Kenneth Langa
Dr Kenneth Langa, a University of Michigan expert on ageing who spoke at the conference, said: 'For an individual, the actual risk of dementia seems to have declined.
'I believe the evidence is pretty strong that lifestyle changes, especially increasing physical activity, maintaining a healthy weight, eating a healthy Mediterranean diet, and controlling one's blood pressure, can help reduce the risk of dementia.
'On a societal level, increasing opportunities for children to have good educations and keep their brains active and stimulated also seems important for reducing dementia risk later in life.'
However, Dr Langa pointed out that the ageing population means the total number of cases is still on the rise.
He said: 'The number of people aged 65 and older is going to almost treble in the next 40 years worldwide. This means that dementia is still going to be front and centre as a public health issue.'
Others warned that the obesity epidemic could undo the progress.
Previous research has shown that those who are obese in middle-age are almost four times as likely to develop dementia in old age as those who keep their weight in check.
The exact reasons are unknown but high blood pressure and cholesterol associated with obesity could interrupt the brain's blood supply, while hormones and other chemicals released by fat stores may harm the brain.
Rebecca Wood, chief executive of Alzheimer's Research UK, said: 'While there is no simple way to prevent the condition, it is positive to see that improvements in healthcare for other conditions could be helping to stem the tide of dementia.
'Time will tell whether rising trends in obesity could set back this progress in the coming years.'
Share or comment on this article
