For Tony Gwynn, ban tobacco in baseball
June 17, 2014 10:06PM
SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 14: Tony Gwynn #19 of the San Diego Padres bats during the 63rd MLB All-Star game against the American League at Jack Murphy Stadium on Tuesday, July 14, 1992 in San Diego, California. (Photo by MLB Photos via Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Tony Gwynn
storyidforme: 67953519
tmspicid: 24188334
fileheaderid: 11948890
Updated: June 18, 2014 2:19AM
The tobacco tin may be carefully stowed away, but when Major League Baseball players head out to the field there's no mistaking a cheek bulging with chaw.
In honor of Tony Gwynn, it's time to end the charade.
MLB players can honor Gwynn -- a Hall-of-Fame baseball player and long-time snuff user who died Monday at age 54 after battling salivary gland cancer -- by agreeing to ban all smokeless tobacco products on the field.
MLB currently requires players only to keep the tins out of sight during play and prohibits dipping or chewing during interviews.
What a joke.
To make a real impact -- to set an example for the millions of kids and young adults who watch professional baseball and idolize ball players -- the league should do everything it can to rid itself of this filthy and deadly habit.
After decades of smokeless tobacco use, Gwynn, a beloved player, was diagnosed with cancer on the right side of his face, the spot where for years he had tucked a dip of finely ground tobacco between his cheek and gum.
Gwynn was convinced that snuff was the culprit, sure that he was among the estimated 75 percent of people diagnosed with oral cancer at age 50 who have been tobacco users. In 2014, more than 43,000 people in the U.S. are expected to be diagnosed with oral cancer, the eighth year that the rate has increased for these particularly deadly cancers, according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
As an institution, baseball has taken steps to shed chewing tobacco from its deeply entrenched place in its culture. Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball and also in the minor leagues, though of course it's still used. Despite a decline in youth smokeless tobacco use from 1997 to 2003, 12.8 percent of U.S. high school boys were smokeless tobacco users in 2011 -- a 16 percent increase from 2003, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.
MLB sought to have it banned on the field in 2011, only to be thwarted by the players association. The compromise was to keep it out of view of fans and to prohibit teams from providing tobacco products to players, important steps but far from adequate.
Given chewing tobacco's larger than life place in baseball culture, a ban on the field seems the best next step.
No one expects everyone to successfully quit. This stuff is addictive. And no one expects no young player to take it up. A 1999 survey published in the Journal of Athletic Training found that nearly one-third of rookies in the major leagues were already regular smokeless tobacco users. More than two-thirds had tried smokeless tobacco. Adults make choices, good ones and poor ones, and that's their business.
But setting the tone from the top that chewing tobacco isn't welcome on major league ball fields can send a powerful message.
Gwynn got the ball rolling by speaking honestly about what he believed caused his illness.
"Gwynn did something very important; he said early on in his diagnosis that he'd used chewing tobacco and was 99 percent sure that's how he got it," said Brian Hill, founder of the Oral Cancer Foundation and an oral cancer survivor. "He was very open about it.
"When our heroes show us they're vulnerable," Hill predicted, "they change the world."
In Gwynn's honor, we can only hope.

Red Sox react to death of Tony Gwynn - Sports - The Boston Globe
In the middle of the winter, daily sightings of Tony Gwynn walking through the San Diego Padres' offices were the norm.
"Granted, it was winter in San Diego," said Red Sox executive vice president and senior advisor Charles Steinberg.
Continue reading below
For the better part of the 1990s, Steinberg and fellow Sox executives Tom Werner and Larry Lucchino built the Padres into a World Series team, and even in the offseason, they watched Gwynn treat every day like a work day.
"He would bring a brown bag for his lunch, he'd come in at about 9:30 in the morning and go hit," Steinberg said. "All winter long, November, December, January. He just treated the ballpark as his shop."
The running joke was that right field was Gwynn's office. His life's work echoes throughout baseball -- 2,440 career games over 20 seasons, 3,141 hits, a .338 batting average.
His gift for hitting was God-given. Honing his skill was labor, but it was a labor of love.
"He worked year-round," Steinberg said. "And that wasn't something we saw elsewhere in our careers."
Continue reading below
This past January, Steinberg and Lucchino went to a memorial service at Petco Park in San Diego.
It was a reunion of sorts, faces who spent years building the Padres organization.
Gwynn was among the attendees. He had been battling cancer in the salivary gland since 2010, twice having operations on his right cheek. When Lucchino and Steinberg saw him, Steinberg said, "We knew that he was still in a battle."
When they learned on Monday that Gwynn had died of cancer at 54 years old, it was devastating.
"Everybody's crushed by it," Steinberg said.
Calling Gwynn the face of Padres baseball would be selling short what he meant to the franchise and the city.
Steinberg would constantly tell Gwynn that his star would only get brighter if he sought more attention and exposure.
But Gwynn had no desire to leave Southern California, having grown up in Long Beach, played at San Diego State, and marrying his childhood sweetheart and having two children and building his entire life in the area.
"I would say to him, 'You could be the national face [of baseball],' " Steinberg said. "He said, 'Nah, happy to be in San Diego.' I would say, 'You could be Ken Griffey!" He'd say, 'Nah, happy to be in San Diego.'
"He knew his niche and he protected it. He knew the value of going 20 years with one club and he had it down. He was as beloved as anybody I'd ever seen in San Diego. It might be fair to say he was as beloved in San Diego as any hero has been in their respective city. I mean, everybody loved him."
The way Gwynn went about the game earned him respect from his contemporaries and made him a legend to players that came after him.
Mike Carp, who is from Long Beach, grew up mimicking Gwynn's batting stance in his backyard.
"You watched him for many years use the opposite field and take what the pitcher gives him and just absolutely rake," Carp said. "It really kind of helped influence everybody. Growing up, watching a guy the way he does things makes you want to want to try to do things and emulate.
"Somber day for all of baseball. We lost a true legend, an ambassador to the game and everything he did for baseball for 20 years and continuing afterwards."
When Jackie Bradley Jr. walked into the Red Sox clubhouse on Monday and saw Gwynn's face on the television screen, he assumed it was about Gwynn's playing days.
"Maybe they were just going over the numbers or the legacy," he said.
When Bradley realized it was because Gwynn had died, it caught him off guard.
"I was like, 'Wow,' " Bradley said. "My parents are getting close to that [age]."
Bradley was 11 when Gwynn retired in 2001 -- "too young to know the impact that he had on the game" -- but Gwynn was someone his father constantly talked about growing up.
"What he did is remarkable for the game," Bradley said. "He was special."
Gwynn was upfront about tying his cancer to years using chewing tobacco, a practice that's ingrained in the baseball culture.
At the major league level, smokeless tobacco has been discouraged but not banned. Since 2011, teams are prohibited from providing it to players, clubhouse workers can't buy it for them, and players can't have tobacco tins on their person during games. The minor leagues, however, don't allow chewing tobacco at all.
"They actually have, like, the 'tobacco police' in the minor leagues," Bradley said, who has never had a desire to dip. "They try to check to cut down on some of that. Obviously when you appear in the big leagues, a lot of things aren't as monitored such as that. I feel like they've got more things to worry about than tobacco.
"I think it just comes down to personal preference. Guys are going to do what they've been doing their whole careers. But I guess it's one of those things where it's a personal preference."
