For Tony Gwynn, ban tobacco in baseball
June 17, 2014 10:06PM
SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 14: Tony Gwynn #19 of the San Diego Padres bats during the 63rd MLB All-Star game against the American League at Jack Murphy Stadium on Tuesday, July 14, 1992 in San Diego, California. (Photo by MLB Photos via Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Tony Gwynn
storyidforme: 67953519
tmspicid: 24188334
fileheaderid: 11948890
Updated: June 18, 2014 2:19AM
The tobacco tin may be carefully stowed away, but when Major League Baseball players head out to the field there's no mistaking a cheek bulging with chaw.
In honor of Tony Gwynn, it's time to end the charade.
MLB players can honor Gwynn -- a Hall-of-Fame baseball player and long-time snuff user who died Monday at age 54 after battling salivary gland cancer -- by agreeing to ban all smokeless tobacco products on the field.
MLB currently requires players only to keep the tins out of sight during play and prohibits dipping or chewing during interviews.
What a joke.
To make a real impact -- to set an example for the millions of kids and young adults who watch professional baseball and idolize ball players -- the league should do everything it can to rid itself of this filthy and deadly habit.
After decades of smokeless tobacco use, Gwynn, a beloved player, was diagnosed with cancer on the right side of his face, the spot where for years he had tucked a dip of finely ground tobacco between his cheek and gum.
Gwynn was convinced that snuff was the culprit, sure that he was among the estimated 75 percent of people diagnosed with oral cancer at age 50 who have been tobacco users. In 2014, more than 43,000 people in the U.S. are expected to be diagnosed with oral cancer, the eighth year that the rate has increased for these particularly deadly cancers, according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
As an institution, baseball has taken steps to shed chewing tobacco from its deeply entrenched place in its culture. Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball and also in the minor leagues, though of course it's still used. Despite a decline in youth smokeless tobacco use from 1997 to 2003, 12.8 percent of U.S. high school boys were smokeless tobacco users in 2011 -- a 16 percent increase from 2003, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.
MLB sought to have it banned on the field in 2011, only to be thwarted by the players association. The compromise was to keep it out of view of fans and to prohibit teams from providing tobacco products to players, important steps but far from adequate.
Given chewing tobacco's larger than life place in baseball culture, a ban on the field seems the best next step.
No one expects everyone to successfully quit. This stuff is addictive. And no one expects no young player to take it up. A 1999 survey published in the Journal of Athletic Training found that nearly one-third of rookies in the major leagues were already regular smokeless tobacco users. More than two-thirds had tried smokeless tobacco. Adults make choices, good ones and poor ones, and that's their business.
But setting the tone from the top that chewing tobacco isn't welcome on major league ball fields can send a powerful message.
Gwynn got the ball rolling by speaking honestly about what he believed caused his illness.
"Gwynn did something very important; he said early on in his diagnosis that he'd used chewing tobacco and was 99 percent sure that's how he got it," said Brian Hill, founder of the Oral Cancer Foundation and an oral cancer survivor. "He was very open about it.
"When our heroes show us they're vulnerable," Hill predicted, "they change the world."
In Gwynn's honor, we can only hope.

There were two certainties about Tony Gwynn: He could hit a baseball like few other major leaguers and he was going to laugh.
Gwynn was a craftsman at the plate, whose sweet left-handed swing made him one of baseball's greatest hitters.
The Hall of Famer died Monday of oral cancer, a disease he attributed to years of chewing tobacco. He was 54.
Any knowledgeable fan can recite Gwynn's key stats. He had 3,141 hits -- 18th on the all-time list -- a career .338 average and won eight batting titles to tie Honus Wagner's National League record.
There was far more to the man.
In a rarity in pro sports, Gwynn played his whole MLB career with the Padres, choosing to stay in the city where he was a two-sport college star rather than leaving for bigger paychecks elsewhere.
He was loyal, generous and approachable. He smiled a lot. It didn't take much to get him to laugh his hearty laugh.
Gwynn loved San Diego. San Diego loved "Mr. Padre" right back.
His death left even casual fans grieving.
"Our city is a little darker today without him, but immeasurably better because of him," Mayor Kevin Faulconer said in a statement.
Five things to remember about Gwynn:
His Craft
After spending parts of just two seasons in the minors, he made his big-league debut on July 19, 1982. Gwynn had two hits that night. After Gwynn doubled, career hits leader Pete Rose, who been trailing the play, said to him: "Hey, kid, what are you trying to do, catch me in one night?"
On Monday, Rose recalled Gwynn's work ethic and his pioneering use of video to study his at-bats after every game.
"Every day you went to the ballpark in San Diego, and we used to go 2:30 or 3 o'clock, Tony would be out there hitting, religiously, every day," Rose said. "Fifty-four years old is way too young."
The Laugh
Former Padres teammate Tim Flannery recalls Gwynn as "always laughing, always talking, always happy."
It didn't take much for Gwynn to cackle or break into a horse laugh.
"He had a work ethic unlike anybody else and had a childlike demeanour of playing the game just because he loved it so much," said Flannery, now third base coach for the San Francisco Giants.
The 5.5 Hole
Gwynn loved to hit the other way, through the hole between third base and shortstop.
"All I keep thinking of when I think of Tony Gwynn is that line-drive base hit to left field or the one-hopper in the hole at shortstop to left field," Los Angeles Dodgers broadcaster Vin Scully said. "He hit the ball wherever it was pitched and he was just a genius with the bat, without a doubt."
San Diego State
Gwynn had been on a medical leave since late March from his job as baseball coach at San Diego State, his alma mater. He called it his dream job, one he began right after retiring from the Padres following the 2001 season. He coached his son, Tony Jr., who's with the Philadelphia Phillies.
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Gwynn played point guard for the SDSU basketball team -- he still holds the game, season and career record for assists -- and in the outfield on the baseball team.
He was drafted by both the Padres (third round) and San Diego Clippers (10th round) on the same day in 1981. As much as he loved basketball, baseball was his future.
Texas' Augie Garrido, the winningest college baseball coach, said at the College World Series on Monday that he tried to recruit Gwynn when he was coaching at Cal State Fullerton, but told him he wouldn't be able to play baseball and basketball.
Because baseball would be well underway by the time basketball ended, "You'd have to be one hell of a baseball player to be break into the lineup," Garrido recalled telling Gwynn.
"He decided to go to San Diego State. After he won his seventh batting title at Dodger Stadium on the last day of the season, he broke that story to the LA Times."
"He didn't leave out one bit of information about how stupid I was [and] That's why my recruiting genius is limited," added Garrido, who noted he and Gwynn had a good relationship.
Terrific Tony
Gwynn struck out only 434 times in 9,288 career at-bats. He played in San Diego's only two World Series -- batting a combined .371 -- and was a 15-time all-star. He had a home run in Game 1 of the 1998 World Series off fellow San Diegan David Wells and scored the winning run in the 1994 All-Star Game despite a bum knee.
Gwynn never hit below .309 in a full season. He spread his batting titles from 1984 (.351) to 1997 (.372).
Gwynn was hitting .394 when a players' strike ended the 1994 season, denying him a shot at becoming the first player to hit .400 since San Diego native Ted Williams hit .406 in 1941.
