For Tony Gwynn, ban tobacco in baseball
June 17, 2014 10:06PM
SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 14: Tony Gwynn #19 of the San Diego Padres bats during the 63rd MLB All-Star game against the American League at Jack Murphy Stadium on Tuesday, July 14, 1992 in San Diego, California. (Photo by MLB Photos via Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Tony Gwynn
storyidforme: 67953519
tmspicid: 24188334
fileheaderid: 11948890
Updated: June 18, 2014 2:19AM
The tobacco tin may be carefully stowed away, but when Major League Baseball players head out to the field there's no mistaking a cheek bulging with chaw.
In honor of Tony Gwynn, it's time to end the charade.
MLB players can honor Gwynn -- a Hall-of-Fame baseball player and long-time snuff user who died Monday at age 54 after battling salivary gland cancer -- by agreeing to ban all smokeless tobacco products on the field.
MLB currently requires players only to keep the tins out of sight during play and prohibits dipping or chewing during interviews.
What a joke.
To make a real impact -- to set an example for the millions of kids and young adults who watch professional baseball and idolize ball players -- the league should do everything it can to rid itself of this filthy and deadly habit.
After decades of smokeless tobacco use, Gwynn, a beloved player, was diagnosed with cancer on the right side of his face, the spot where for years he had tucked a dip of finely ground tobacco between his cheek and gum.
Gwynn was convinced that snuff was the culprit, sure that he was among the estimated 75 percent of people diagnosed with oral cancer at age 50 who have been tobacco users. In 2014, more than 43,000 people in the U.S. are expected to be diagnosed with oral cancer, the eighth year that the rate has increased for these particularly deadly cancers, according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
As an institution, baseball has taken steps to shed chewing tobacco from its deeply entrenched place in its culture. Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball and also in the minor leagues, though of course it's still used. Despite a decline in youth smokeless tobacco use from 1997 to 2003, 12.8 percent of U.S. high school boys were smokeless tobacco users in 2011 -- a 16 percent increase from 2003, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.
MLB sought to have it banned on the field in 2011, only to be thwarted by the players association. The compromise was to keep it out of view of fans and to prohibit teams from providing tobacco products to players, important steps but far from adequate.
Given chewing tobacco's larger than life place in baseball culture, a ban on the field seems the best next step.
No one expects everyone to successfully quit. This stuff is addictive. And no one expects no young player to take it up. A 1999 survey published in the Journal of Athletic Training found that nearly one-third of rookies in the major leagues were already regular smokeless tobacco users. More than two-thirds had tried smokeless tobacco. Adults make choices, good ones and poor ones, and that's their business.
But setting the tone from the top that chewing tobacco isn't welcome on major league ball fields can send a powerful message.
Gwynn got the ball rolling by speaking honestly about what he believed caused his illness.
"Gwynn did something very important; he said early on in his diagnosis that he'd used chewing tobacco and was 99 percent sure that's how he got it," said Brian Hill, founder of the Oral Cancer Foundation and an oral cancer survivor. "He was very open about it.
"When our heroes show us they're vulnerable," Hill predicted, "they change the world."
In Gwynn's honor, we can only hope.

Stephen Strasburg grateful for time with Tony Gwynn
Stephen Strasburg on his former coach, Tony Gwynn: "He's impacted so many players over the years. I'm blessed to be one of them." (Richard Lipski/Associated Press)
Stephen Strasburg will never forget so many things about Tony Gwynn, and one of them is the first day he set foot on the campus of San Diego State. Strasburg grew up a Padres fan in San Diego, and Gwynn "was like a god to me," he said. His freshman year, before he had thrown a single pitch, Gwynn approached him. "I'm going in the Hall of Fame this year," Gwynn told Strasburg. "But I'm just your coach."
Tuesday afternoon in front of his locker in the Nationals clubhouse, Strasburg both held back tears and smiled as he told the story. Monday morning, Gwynn died at 54 after a years-long bout with cancer in his cheek and salivary gland. Strasburg learned the news when he woke up Monday. It crushed him.
"This is a guy who put other people before himself," Strasburg said. "There's so many things I'm never going to forget. He's impacted so many players over the years. I'm so blessed to be one of them."
Gwynn had a huge impact on Strasburg's career. When he arrived at SDSU to play for Gwynn, Strasburg was an undrafted, overlooked high school pitcher who struggled to keep his composure. After two seasons, he was viewed as a can't-miss prospect, the obvious No. 1 choice in the MLB draft.
But Gwynn's impact went beyond baseball. "It started with just how to be a man, how to handle the ups and downs," Strasburg said. "Not everything goes your way in life, and certainly not in this game. I think that's one of the things from a personal perspective, I struggled with that. He really helped me understand that it's not necessarily the results. It's the work you put in every single day. That's what matters at the end of the day."
The relationship between Strasburg and Gwynn lasted after his college career closed. Gwynn traveled to Washington for Strasburg's debut and watched the 14-strikeout masterpiece in a suite with Strasburg's family.
"It's funny," Strasburg said. "I've got family a couple hours down south in Virginia. I was talking to my great uncle. He's not doing great health-wise. But we're sitting there talking, and he's like, 'That was so cool sitting there watching the game, to have Tony Gwynn sitting there next to me, telling me everything about what you were doing out there.' Coach, he became part of my family as well. He wasn't going to miss that. It was such a special experience for my family specifically, to be there watching my debut with this legend back in San Diego."
Not long after the 2010 season, Gwynn was diagnosed with cancer. Gwynn believed years of smokeless tobacco use gave him cancer, but doctors never confirmed that suspicion. Strasburg has tried to quit his own use of smokeless tobacco in the past. Tuesday afternoon, he requested that reporters not ask questions about smokeless tobacco.
During batting practice for pitchers, Strasburg chewed gum and blew large, pink bubbles. Over the past few years, Strasburg tried his best to keep in touch with Gwynn, who wanted to keep his battle as private as he could, to avoid making people feel sorry for him. "It became pretty tough here the last couple years with the health issues and everything," Strasburg said. "Whenever we would come into San Diego, I'd make sure to try to stop by and say hello. I'd come by a lot in the offseason. This last offseason was probably the least I was able to see him."
Strasburg never imagined hearing the news Monday the way he did. Tony Gwynn, after all, was like a god, someone not meant to pass away so soon. "It's definitely a blow," Strasburg said. "It was tough waking up yesterday on the off day and getting the news. I've been saying some prayers for the Gwynn family and all the people back in San Diego who are mourning this loss as well."
