For Tony Gwynn, ban tobacco in baseball
June 17, 2014 10:06PM
SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 14: Tony Gwynn #19 of the San Diego Padres bats during the 63rd MLB All-Star game against the American League at Jack Murphy Stadium on Tuesday, July 14, 1992 in San Diego, California. (Photo by MLB Photos via Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Tony Gwynn
storyidforme: 67953519
tmspicid: 24188334
fileheaderid: 11948890
Updated: June 18, 2014 2:19AM
The tobacco tin may be carefully stowed away, but when Major League Baseball players head out to the field there's no mistaking a cheek bulging with chaw.
In honor of Tony Gwynn, it's time to end the charade.
MLB players can honor Gwynn -- a Hall-of-Fame baseball player and long-time snuff user who died Monday at age 54 after battling salivary gland cancer -- by agreeing to ban all smokeless tobacco products on the field.
MLB currently requires players only to keep the tins out of sight during play and prohibits dipping or chewing during interviews.
What a joke.
To make a real impact -- to set an example for the millions of kids and young adults who watch professional baseball and idolize ball players -- the league should do everything it can to rid itself of this filthy and deadly habit.
After decades of smokeless tobacco use, Gwynn, a beloved player, was diagnosed with cancer on the right side of his face, the spot where for years he had tucked a dip of finely ground tobacco between his cheek and gum.
Gwynn was convinced that snuff was the culprit, sure that he was among the estimated 75 percent of people diagnosed with oral cancer at age 50 who have been tobacco users. In 2014, more than 43,000 people in the U.S. are expected to be diagnosed with oral cancer, the eighth year that the rate has increased for these particularly deadly cancers, according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
As an institution, baseball has taken steps to shed chewing tobacco from its deeply entrenched place in its culture. Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball and also in the minor leagues, though of course it's still used. Despite a decline in youth smokeless tobacco use from 1997 to 2003, 12.8 percent of U.S. high school boys were smokeless tobacco users in 2011 -- a 16 percent increase from 2003, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.
MLB sought to have it banned on the field in 2011, only to be thwarted by the players association. The compromise was to keep it out of view of fans and to prohibit teams from providing tobacco products to players, important steps but far from adequate.
Given chewing tobacco's larger than life place in baseball culture, a ban on the field seems the best next step.
No one expects everyone to successfully quit. This stuff is addictive. And no one expects no young player to take it up. A 1999 survey published in the Journal of Athletic Training found that nearly one-third of rookies in the major leagues were already regular smokeless tobacco users. More than two-thirds had tried smokeless tobacco. Adults make choices, good ones and poor ones, and that's their business.
But setting the tone from the top that chewing tobacco isn't welcome on major league ball fields can send a powerful message.
Gwynn got the ball rolling by speaking honestly about what he believed caused his illness.
"Gwynn did something very important; he said early on in his diagnosis that he'd used chewing tobacco and was 99 percent sure that's how he got it," said Brian Hill, founder of the Oral Cancer Foundation and an oral cancer survivor. "He was very open about it.
"When our heroes show us they're vulnerable," Hill predicted, "they change the world."
In Gwynn's honor, we can only hope.

Orioles' Adam Jones reflects on Padres great Tony Gwynn's death - baltimoresun.com
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -- While growing up in San Diego, Orioles center fielder Adam Jones idolized Tony Gwynn as a player, then later gained greater admiration for him after getting to know the Padres Hall of Famer as a person.
So the news of Gwynn's death Monday at age 54, after a four-year battle with cancer, hit Jones especially hard.
"I've known the man for most of my adult life, so it's tough when someone passes like that, especially the impact he'd had on not just myself, but on countless major leaguers, and just people in general, in the San Diego community," Jones said. "I heard about it this morning through his family. It's tough. It's life. You relish every moment. You relish every moment of your life."
Jones grew up as a Padres fan and was recruited as a high school prospect by Gwynn while he coached at San Diego State. Jones signed a national letter of intent to play for Gwynn, but he chose to sign with the Seattle Mariners after they drafted him No. 37 overall out of San Diego's Morse High School in 2003.
But their relationship didn't end there. Gwynn always invited Jones to work out with him in the offseason.
"He reached out to me," Jones said. He asked me to come up and work out with him in the offseason, work out with his son and the group of guys who were out there. We've been going strong for 10 years now. We were there every offseason, and this was the first offseason he wasn't there every day because he was fighting his fight.
"It was weird not seeing him there every single day when we were going up there and hit. Just sitting up in the cage ... that's the part that not many people get to know about him. ... To actually see the man who was behind all the numbers and stuff, that was the remarkable part."
Jones said Gwynn gave him advice that he will always remember.
"If you don't want nobody talking [trash] about you, don't be good," Jones said Gwynn told him. "If you're good, somebody's always going to have something to say. ... He was a knowledgeable guy. I learned a lot, not just about baseball, but how to be a man in this industry and how to take it all with a grain of salt."
Orioles great Cal Ripken Jr., who was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame alongside Gwynn in 2007, also reacted with sadness Monday.
"This is an extraordinarily sad day," Ripken said in a statement. "Tony was a Hall of Fame ballplayer but more importantly he was a wonderful man. Tony always had a big smile on his face and was one of the warmest and most genuine people I have ever had the honor of knowing. Like all baseball fans I will miss him very much and my thoughts are with his family today."
Gonzalez to come off DL, start Tuesday
Right-hander Miguel Gonzalez will be activated from the 15-day disabled list to start against the Tampa Bay Rays on Tuesday night at Tropicana Field.
Gonzalez, who has been on the disabled list with a right oblique strain, has thrown two bullpen sessions since pitching 41/3 scoreless innings in a minor league rehabilitation game Wednesday at Double-A Bowie.
"I'm pretty confident about it," Gonzalez said. "I'm ready to go."
In his career, Gonzalez has pitched well against Tampa Bay. He is 3-3 with a 3.55 ERA in nine starts against the Rays, including 2-1 with a 1.75 ERA in four career outings at Tropicana Field.
With right-hander Kevin Gausman still in the rotation following back-to-back quality starts, there was a question how Gonzalez would fit into the rotation. But Showalter plans to start Gonzalez on Tuesday and Gausman on Wednesday.
"Totally excited [to] get back on that bump again and be ready to roll," Gonzalez said. "Hopefully give our team a chance to win some ballgames, that's going to be really important."
Around the horn
The Orioles entered Monday's game leading the majors with 83 double plays turned, 10 more than any other team. The Colorado Rockies and the San Francisco Giants were second with 73. ... Orioles designated hitters entered Monday batting .298 with 11 homers and 41 RBIs. Over the previous three seasons, Orioles designated hitters averaged full-season marks of a .253 average with 20 homers and 70 RBIs. ... Low-A Delmarva first baseman Trey Mancini and right-hander Dylan Rheault were added to the Northern Division team for Tuesday night's South Atlantic All-Star Game. The Shorebirds now have seven players participating in the game in Hickory, N.C. ... High-A Frederick's Michael Burgess was named the Carolina League Player of the Week. In six games, he batted .500 (11-for-22) with three home runs, one triple, two doubles, nine RBIs and four runs scored. ... The Orioles' Father's Day Catch on the Field promotion held before Sunday's game raised more than $33,000 for the Orioles Charitable Foundation. ... Veteran right-hander Ramon Ramirez, signed to a minor league deal May 31, was transferred from the Gulf Coast League Orioles to Triple-A Norfolk.
