Oscar Pistorius had a heightened concern for his personal safety and was making plans to take girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on international trips shortly before he fatally shot her, his agent testified at the double-amputee runner's murder trial today in Pretoria.
The defence called Peet van Zyl to the stand in an attempt to bolster Pistorius's account that he mistook Steenkamp for an intruder, providing testimony about a loving relationship and a fear of crime that may have pushed the Paralympian to fire through a closed toilet door.
Van Zyl faced tough questioning from the chief prosecutor, however, about Pistorius's alleged egotism and tantrums, high-speed driving and love of guns. The prosecution maintains that he intentionally killed Steenkamp in his home after an argument in the early hours of Feb. 14, 2013.
'Heightened sense of awareness'
Pistorius, who is free on bail, faces 25 years to life in prison if found guilty of premeditated murder, but he could also be sentenced to significant time behind bars if convicted of murder without premeditation or negligent killing. He also faces gun-related charges.
The agent, who helped guide Pistorius to success as a globally renowned athlete with lucrative sponsorship deals that have since been stripped away, testified that his client had a "heightened sense of awareness" and appeared preoccupied with security at times.
On one occasion, he recalled, Pistorius drove with him at high speed to the airport and, when told there was no rush, recalled a traumatic episode in which Van Zyl was accosted at gunpoint while in his car in 2007.
"He wanted to ensure that we are safe and not being followed," Van Zyl said.
He also remembered a time when Pistorius grabbed him by the arm in apparent fear when the pair heard a loud bang while walking in New York City, and described two occasions in which the runner lost his temper but was not aggressive under "abusive questioning" from journalists.
He also said he was assisting Pistorius in plans to take Steenkamp, a 29-year-old model, to races in Britain and Brazil, and a concert in Italy.
Prosecutor Gerrie Nel tried to pick holes in Van Zyl's testimony, pressing the agent for details about a reported incident in which a South African athlete who was sharing a room with Pistorius asked for them to be separated because Pistorius was allegedly arguing frequently on his telephone. He also referred to a 2012 Paralympics race in which Pistorius accused the winner of breaking the rules by using prosthetic limbs that were too long.
Van Zul acknowledged that it was the "wrong place and wrong time for him to react in such a way," but noted there was a "long lead-up" to the incident in which Pistorius had expressed concerns that rules were being flouted.
Nel also described Pistorius's plans to take Steenkamp on trips as an example of alleged narcissism after Van Zyl quoted the athlete as saying he wanted his girlfriend "to see what my world is about, the pressure that I'm under" and "how I need to perform."
During an adjournment, Van Zyl and Pistorius shook hands. The two men patted each other warmly on the back.
Screams come under scrutiny
Earlier in the day, testimony focused on a pillar of the prosecution's case -- the screams that neighbours heard on the night the athlete killed Steenkamp.
Nel questioned acoustics expert Ivan Lin, who had been called by the defence team as part of its effort to suggest some neighbours who said they heard the screams of a woman were wrong, and that they actually heard the high-pitched screams of the double-amputee runner.
Several neighbours called by the prosecution have testified that they heard a woman's terrified screams on the night Pistorius shot Steenkamp, which could bolster the prosecution's claim that the couple was arguing before Pistorius opened fire.
Lin has testified that he conducted tests that showed ambient noise and other factors can make it difficult to hear accurately from a distance.
Nel said the screams of a woman have a "tonal character" and referred to the testimony of the neighbours who were convinced they had heard a screaming woman.
Lin responded that he could not say whether the neighbours were "correct or incorrect."

Clean bill of mental health plays into hands of prosecutor Nel - Independent.ie
Fiona Forde
Published 01/07/2014|02:30
The gaze of the world's media was focused on Oscar Pistorius once again yesterday when his murder trial resumed following a six-week break, during which the accused was subjected to psychiatric assessment. The upshot: the famous sprinter is sane, though stressed.
The Paralympian was evaluated not because it is usual practice in South Africa half way through a trial, but because an expert witness, called by his own legal team, told the court Mr Pistorius was suffering from 'generalised anxiety disorder' or GAD, which she believed may have influenced his actions on the night he shot dead Reeva Steenkamp.
It was an unwitting remark that landed right in the lap of the state's excellent prosecutor, Advocate Gerrie Nel, who was quick to convince the court that if there was any doubt about the accused's mental health, it had to be probed.
Either Mr Pistorius was 'insane' at the time of the crime and didn't know what he was doing, or he had full 'capacity' and appreciated the consequences of his actions. The court must know either way, Mr Nel argued.
The presiding judge, Thokozile Masipa, was forced to send Mr Pistorius for a proper psychiatric evaluation.
It was a decision that would carry profound implications for the outcome of the trial. If Mr Pistorius was found to be mentally deficient, it could have been argued that he was unfit to stand trial. Alternatively, and depending on the severity of a possible disorder, he could have been acquitted, or if not, handed a lenient sentence for Ms Steenkamp's death. Mr Nel knew what he was doing when he pushed for that psychiatric assessment, however. He has always been of the firm view that Mr Pistorius shot her in a fit of rage, and with full intention, and in possession of the full mental capacity to understand the criminal consequences.
By forcing that psychiatric evaluation, Mr Nel was betting on an expert view to back up his own assessment of Mr Pistorius's mental health.
In legal terms, he was counting on a critical aggravating circumstance. Which is precisely what the medical panel did when they unanimously granted Mr Pistorius a clean bill of mental health in a report submitted to the court yesterday.
This is a heavy blow to Mr Pistorius, who insists he mistook Ms Steenkamp for an intruder in the middle of the night. His legal team will find it hard to hold that line, or argue that the 27-year-old was out of control of his actions, and therefore did not shoot Ms Steenkamp intentionally, as the state argues.
In a fortnight or so from now, the heads of argument will be presented and it is then up to Judge Masipa to decide how long she would like to take to deliberate over all of the evidence.
Her judgment is expected to be handed down somewhere around the end of August or early September.

