Oscar Pistorius had a heightened concern for his personal safety and was making plans to take girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on international trips shortly before he fatally shot her, his agent testified at the double-amputee runner's murder trial today in Pretoria.
The defence called Peet van Zyl to the stand in an attempt to bolster Pistorius's account that he mistook Steenkamp for an intruder, providing testimony about a loving relationship and a fear of crime that may have pushed the Paralympian to fire through a closed toilet door.
Van Zyl faced tough questioning from the chief prosecutor, however, about Pistorius's alleged egotism and tantrums, high-speed driving and love of guns. The prosecution maintains that he intentionally killed Steenkamp in his home after an argument in the early hours of Feb. 14, 2013.
'Heightened sense of awareness'
Pistorius, who is free on bail, faces 25 years to life in prison if found guilty of premeditated murder, but he could also be sentenced to significant time behind bars if convicted of murder without premeditation or negligent killing. He also faces gun-related charges.
The agent, who helped guide Pistorius to success as a globally renowned athlete with lucrative sponsorship deals that have since been stripped away, testified that his client had a "heightened sense of awareness" and appeared preoccupied with security at times.
On one occasion, he recalled, Pistorius drove with him at high speed to the airport and, when told there was no rush, recalled a traumatic episode in which Van Zyl was accosted at gunpoint while in his car in 2007.
"He wanted to ensure that we are safe and not being followed," Van Zyl said.
He also remembered a time when Pistorius grabbed him by the arm in apparent fear when the pair heard a loud bang while walking in New York City, and described two occasions in which the runner lost his temper but was not aggressive under "abusive questioning" from journalists.
He also said he was assisting Pistorius in plans to take Steenkamp, a 29-year-old model, to races in Britain and Brazil, and a concert in Italy.
Prosecutor Gerrie Nel tried to pick holes in Van Zyl's testimony, pressing the agent for details about a reported incident in which a South African athlete who was sharing a room with Pistorius asked for them to be separated because Pistorius was allegedly arguing frequently on his telephone. He also referred to a 2012 Paralympics race in which Pistorius accused the winner of breaking the rules by using prosthetic limbs that were too long.
Van Zul acknowledged that it was the "wrong place and wrong time for him to react in such a way," but noted there was a "long lead-up" to the incident in which Pistorius had expressed concerns that rules were being flouted.
Nel also described Pistorius's plans to take Steenkamp on trips as an example of alleged narcissism after Van Zyl quoted the athlete as saying he wanted his girlfriend "to see what my world is about, the pressure that I'm under" and "how I need to perform."
During an adjournment, Van Zyl and Pistorius shook hands. The two men patted each other warmly on the back.
Screams come under scrutiny
Earlier in the day, testimony focused on a pillar of the prosecution's case -- the screams that neighbours heard on the night the athlete killed Steenkamp.
Nel questioned acoustics expert Ivan Lin, who had been called by the defence team as part of its effort to suggest some neighbours who said they heard the screams of a woman were wrong, and that they actually heard the high-pitched screams of the double-amputee runner.
Several neighbours called by the prosecution have testified that they heard a woman's terrified screams on the night Pistorius shot Steenkamp, which could bolster the prosecution's claim that the couple was arguing before Pistorius opened fire.
Lin has testified that he conducted tests that showed ambient noise and other factors can make it difficult to hear accurately from a distance.
Nel said the screams of a woman have a "tonal character" and referred to the testimony of the neighbours who were convinced they had heard a screaming woman.
Lin responded that he could not say whether the neighbours were "correct or incorrect."

Paralympian Oscar Pistorius's defense renewed its challenge to the prosecution's case that the athlete murdered his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp, a day after a monthlong psychiatric exam found that he didn't suffer from a mental-health defect.
Defense attorney Barry Roux yesterday called acoustics engineer Ivan Lin, who testified that it's impossible to tell the difference between a woman's and man's screams with 100 percent certainty. State witnesses have said they heard a woman screaming early on Valentine's Day last year when Steenkamp was killed.
"Although typically one can differentiate a male and female scream, but one cannot say it reliably without exception," Lin told the High Court in Pretoria, South Africa's capital.
The murder trial resumed yesterday with Prosecutor Gerrie Nel reading from the report of three psychiatrists and a psychologist who carried out the evaluation to determine whether the double amputee is competent to stand trial for killing Steenkamp.
"Mr. Pistorius did not suffer from a mental defect or mental illness at the time of the commission of the offense that would have rendered him criminally not responsible for the offenses charged," Nel told the court, reading from the report. "Mr. Pistorius was capable of appreciating the wrongfulness of his act and of acting in accordance with the appreciation of the wrongfulness of his act."
Anxiety Order
Nel had requested the assessment after a forensic psychiatrist, Merryll Vorster, called by the defense, said Pistorius has a generalized anxiety disorder that may have affected his actions when he shot Steenkamp.
The prosecutor questioned why the defense asked Vorster for an evaluation weeks after he testified in a trial that started March 3. He suggested the defense was preparing a third explanation for the shooting.
Double-amputee Pistorius, 27, says he thought Steenkamp was an intruder when he fired four shots through a locked toilet cubicle door in a bathroom at his home. The prosecution says he killed her after an argument.
Pistorius originally pleaded self-defense and later, under cross-examination, said he fired the gun by accident.
Roux has portrayed Pistorius as a victim of crime who was in a loving relationship with Steenkamp. Nel has tried to show him as a short-tempered gun-lover who shot his girlfriend in a fit of rage.
Feeling Unbalanced
Gerald Versfeld, an orthopedic surgeon who amputated Pistorius's lower legs when he was 11 months old, testified yesterday that on his stumps the athlete felt unbalanced and vulnerable.
"On his stumps he is seriously vulnerable in a dangerous situation with a severely impaired ability to flee, severely impaired ability to ward off danger, without a weapon, and in danger of falling should he put the stump down incorrectly," he told the court.
Judge Thokozile Masipa ordered the state yesterday to explain how an extension cord went missing from Pistorius's home after police officers took control of the crime scene.
"The house was locked and there was no burglary," she said. "It cannot walk."
Pistorius would face a minimum of 25 years in jail if convicted of murder. He denies the charge and has also pleaded not guilty to three separate gun-related charges. If Pistorius is declared mentally incompetent, he can't stand trial and would have to submit to psychiatric treatment.
Masipa, who will give the final judgment in the case because South Africa doesn't have a jury system, could also consider a lesser charge of culpable homicide if she rules that the act wasn't intentional.
Known as the Blade Runner because of his J-shaped prosthetic running blades, Pistorius has been free on 1 million rand ($94,000) bail since February last year. He won six Paralympic gold medals and was the first double-amputee to compete at the Olympic Games.
