UK opens probe into Facebook's psych experiment | Nation & World | The Seattle Times
LONDON --
British regulators are investigating revelations that Facebook treated hordes of its users like laboratory rats in an experiment probing into their emotions.
The Information Commissioner's Office said Wednesday that it wants to learn more about the circumstances underlying a 2-year-old study carried out by two U.S. universities and the world's largest social network.
The inquiry is being coordinated with authorities in Ireland, where Facebook has headquarters for its European operations, as well as with French regulators.
This is just the latest in a string of incidents that have raised questions about whether the privacy rights of Facebook's nearly 1.3 billion users are being trampled by the company's drive to dissect data and promote behavior that could help sell more online advertising.
In this case, Facebook allowed researchers to manipulate the content that appeared in the main section, or "news feed," of about 700,000 randomly selected users during a single week in January 2012. The data-scientists were trying to collect evidence to prove their thesis that people's moods could spread like an "emotional contagion" depending on the tenor of the content that they were reading.
The study concluded that people were more likely to post negative updates about their lives after the volume of positive information appearing in their Facebook feeds had been purposefully reduced by the researchers. The opposite reaction occurred when the number of negative posts appeared in people's news feeds.
None of the participants in the Facebook experiments were explicitly asked for their permission, though the social network's terms of use appears to allow for the company to manipulate what appears in users' news feeds however it sees fits.
Facebook's data-use policy says the Menlo Park, California, company can deploy user information for "internal operations, including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research and service improvement."
The reaction to the study itself provided evidence of how quickly an emotional contagion can spread online. The research was released a month ago, but it didn't provoke a backlash until the past few days after other social media sites and essays in The New York Times and The Atlantic raised red flags about the ethics of Facebook's experiment.
As it has done in several past breaches of privacy etiquette, Facebook is now trying to make amends.
Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, told television network NDTV in India that "we clearly communicated really badly about this and that we really regret." Later she added: "Facebook has apologized and certainly we never want to do anything that upsets users."
The words of contrition sounded hollow to Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a privacy-rights group. He points to Facebook job openings looking for researchers specializing in data mining and analysis as evidence that the company still has every intention of digging deeper into its users' psyches and preferences.
"They are engaged in secret surveillance of its users to figure out how to make more money for their advertisers," Chester said.
Whatever Facebook has been doing has been paying off for the company and its shareholders. Facebook's revenue last year rose 55 percent to $7.9 billion and its stock has nearly tripled in value during the past year.
The concern over Facebook's experiment comes amid interest in Europe about beefing up data-protection rules. The European Court of Justice last month ruled that Google must respond to users' requests seeking to remove links to personal information.
Suzy Moat, a Warwick Business School assistant professor of behavioral science, said businesses regularly do studies on how to influence behavior. She cited the example of Facebook and Amazon experimenting with showing different groups of people slightly different versions of their websites to see if one is better than another at getting customers to buy products.
"On the other hand, it's extremely understandable that many people are upset that their behavior may have been manipulated for purely scientific purposes without their consent," Moat said. "In particular, Facebook's user base is so wide that everyone wonders if they were in the experiment."
___
Liedtke reported from San Francisco. Mae Anderson in New York contributed to this report.

The Outrage Over Facebook's 'Creepy' Experiment Is Out-Of-Bounds -- And This Study Proves It - Forbes
Two years before Facebook began a study that critics are branding as unethical and manipulative, another researcher used the social media site to do a similar experiment. And his story pokes holes in many of the arguments that Facebook did something wrong.
In Facebook's experiment, researchers found that manipulating the emotional content of the posts in users' Facebook feeds had a mildly contagious effect: It caused people to use slightly more or less positive language when writing their own updates.
But since Facebook voluntarily published its findings in PNAS, the company's been under attack, with dozens of news outlets featuring stories critical of Facebook's "secret mood manipulation study."
Critics say that Facebook needed to get informed consent from users, as one would in a medical experiment, before messing with their Facebook pages in ways that might affect their mood. Others argue that the research should have been reviewed by an institutional review board, a panel of experts that governs safety at an academic site--especially because Facebook's data scientist partnered with university academics and published the research in a journal.
But here's the thing. Facebook isn't alone in running academic-minded experiments on its users. Previous studies have faced the same issues of informed consent without receiving even a modicum of public pressure.
Take Timothy Ryan, a political scientist who will be on the faculty at UNC-Chapel Hill this fall, and who authored a study called "What Makes Us Click? Demonstrating Incentives for Angry Discourse with Digital-Age Field Experiments."
Ryan's study was published in the Journal of Politics in October 2012. It was peer-reviewed. It was cheered by fellow academics.
"My study is four years old," Ryan says. "It's not a secret--I've talked to a number of different people about it. And I don't think I've ever gotten pushback."
And unlike Facebook's much-debated study, Ryan's research did receive approval from an institutional review board--a fact that he double-checked this week. "All this discussion led me to go back and make sure I got IRB approval," says Ryan. "It was a relief."
Ryan's study relied on a clever mechanism: Could changing the language and images in Facebook's ads affect user behavior? The short answer--yes. By using his own series of tests that played on users' emotions, Ryan found that liberal voters were more likely to click on ads that actively angered them.
(Ryan shared some sample ads with me, and I've pasted them below.)
One important point: Ryan didn't get people's informed consent before actively angering them...and his IRB was OK with that.
Informed consent would have been "unnecessary and impossible," Ryan told me. "There were something like 14 million people in my study."
Ryan notes that other academics have used Facebook to experiment with even more fraught issues, like driving people to vote.
And he also says that the study Facebook is getting flack for is well within the standards of his field.
