UK opens probe into Facebook's psych experiment | Nation & World | The Seattle Times
LONDON --
British regulators are investigating revelations that Facebook treated hordes of its users like laboratory rats in an experiment probing into their emotions.
The Information Commissioner's Office said Wednesday that it wants to learn more about the circumstances underlying a 2-year-old study carried out by two U.S. universities and the world's largest social network.
The inquiry is being coordinated with authorities in Ireland, where Facebook has headquarters for its European operations, as well as with French regulators.
This is just the latest in a string of incidents that have raised questions about whether the privacy rights of Facebook's nearly 1.3 billion users are being trampled by the company's drive to dissect data and promote behavior that could help sell more online advertising.
In this case, Facebook allowed researchers to manipulate the content that appeared in the main section, or "news feed," of about 700,000 randomly selected users during a single week in January 2012. The data-scientists were trying to collect evidence to prove their thesis that people's moods could spread like an "emotional contagion" depending on the tenor of the content that they were reading.
The study concluded that people were more likely to post negative updates about their lives after the volume of positive information appearing in their Facebook feeds had been purposefully reduced by the researchers. The opposite reaction occurred when the number of negative posts appeared in people's news feeds.
None of the participants in the Facebook experiments were explicitly asked for their permission, though the social network's terms of use appears to allow for the company to manipulate what appears in users' news feeds however it sees fits.
Facebook's data-use policy says the Menlo Park, California, company can deploy user information for "internal operations, including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research and service improvement."
The reaction to the study itself provided evidence of how quickly an emotional contagion can spread online. The research was released a month ago, but it didn't provoke a backlash until the past few days after other social media sites and essays in The New York Times and The Atlantic raised red flags about the ethics of Facebook's experiment.
As it has done in several past breaches of privacy etiquette, Facebook is now trying to make amends.
Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, told television network NDTV in India that "we clearly communicated really badly about this and that we really regret." Later she added: "Facebook has apologized and certainly we never want to do anything that upsets users."
The words of contrition sounded hollow to Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a privacy-rights group. He points to Facebook job openings looking for researchers specializing in data mining and analysis as evidence that the company still has every intention of digging deeper into its users' psyches and preferences.
"They are engaged in secret surveillance of its users to figure out how to make more money for their advertisers," Chester said.
Whatever Facebook has been doing has been paying off for the company and its shareholders. Facebook's revenue last year rose 55 percent to $7.9 billion and its stock has nearly tripled in value during the past year.
The concern over Facebook's experiment comes amid interest in Europe about beefing up data-protection rules. The European Court of Justice last month ruled that Google must respond to users' requests seeking to remove links to personal information.
Suzy Moat, a Warwick Business School assistant professor of behavioral science, said businesses regularly do studies on how to influence behavior. She cited the example of Facebook and Amazon experimenting with showing different groups of people slightly different versions of their websites to see if one is better than another at getting customers to buy products.
"On the other hand, it's extremely understandable that many people are upset that their behavior may have been manipulated for purely scientific purposes without their consent," Moat said. "In particular, Facebook's user base is so wide that everyone wonders if they were in the experiment."
___
Liedtke reported from San Francisco. Mae Anderson in New York contributed to this report.

Unless a country realises the full potential of women, it cannot realise its full potential: Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg | Latest News & Updates at Daily News & Analysis
Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg
Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, on Thursday, called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi with whom she had a "fruitful meeting", telling him that India was an important country for Facebook with India accounting for $100 million users.
"Being an avid user of social media myself, I talked about ways through which a platform such as Facebook can be used for governance and better interaction between the people and governments. I also talked about how Facebook can be used to bring more tourists to India," said PM Modi in a release.
"We intend to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi's 150th birth anniversary year with a special focus on cleanliness and I spoke to Ms Sandberg on how Facebook can assist us in this endeavour."
Sandberg is in India on a five-day visit, brought by FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO), in partnership with Random House India, the publishers of her book 'Lean In: Women, Work, And the Will to Lead'.
On Wednesday, Sandberg spoke to a gathering of businesswomen, journalists and policy-makers, stressing on the need to do away with gendered norms at the workplace that posed as uneasy disadvantages for women.
Speaking to an eager audience made up mostly of women, most of whom seemed to lap up what she had to offer in her disarming speech on how to succeed despite your gender, Sandberg said that unless a country realises the full potential of its women, it cannot realise its full potential. "Gender inequality is everywhere, not just in India. India is marginally better with 28% companies employing women in their key posts. In America, 23% companies have women at top positions," she said.
Sandberg went on to congratulate two women who helmed affairs at Facebook India -- Kirthiga Reddy, head of India operations, and Akhi Das, public policy head in India. Revealing that there are currently more than 100 million Facebook users in India, Sandberg said that Facebook was looking at making significant investments in India. However, she did not reveal a specific amount.
While speaking about the book, she revealed how she has formed 'lean in' circles, made up of women to support each other, in about 18,072 cities around the world, adding that there were two in Gurgaon.
Sandberg is one of the most successful executives in the world. In the past, she has worked with the World Bank, and served as chief of staff for the US Treasury Department under President Bill Clinton.
She began her speech by recounting her tenure in Delhi and in Madhya Pradesh under the World Bank for a Leprosy project in 1991. "India has grown so much in the past two decades. There were 3 million leprosy cases then, there are barely 1,00,000 now," she said.
On being asked, how organisations and policy-makers can make changes to help women at the workplace, she said that most busines organisations sought to not talk about gender, and that it is only when gender is brought on the table at any discussion, will gender inequality be done away with.
Sandberg's address on gender inequality comes at a time when, another Silicon Valley networking site, Tinder, is in the throes of a controversy with a sexual harassment suit slapped against its chief executive and chief marketing officer, Justin Mateen, bring back the debate of the skewed gender ratio at the Valley.
A former colleague of Mateen, on Monday, alleged that he had sent her "a barrage of horrendously sexist, racist and otherwise inappropriate comments, emails and text messages."
Even though Sandberg chose to keep mum about the Tinder controversy, she somewhat chose to tackle her own company's wrong-footing on the use of sensitive user information to carry out undisclosed experiments. "It was simply bad communication. These tests were part of ongoing experiments to test new products. We take the privacy and security of our users very seriously," she said.
