UK opens probe into Facebook's psych experiment | Nation & World | The Seattle Times
LONDON --
British regulators are investigating revelations that Facebook treated hordes of its users like laboratory rats in an experiment probing into their emotions.
The Information Commissioner's Office said Wednesday that it wants to learn more about the circumstances underlying a 2-year-old study carried out by two U.S. universities and the world's largest social network.
The inquiry is being coordinated with authorities in Ireland, where Facebook has headquarters for its European operations, as well as with French regulators.
This is just the latest in a string of incidents that have raised questions about whether the privacy rights of Facebook's nearly 1.3 billion users are being trampled by the company's drive to dissect data and promote behavior that could help sell more online advertising.
In this case, Facebook allowed researchers to manipulate the content that appeared in the main section, or "news feed," of about 700,000 randomly selected users during a single week in January 2012. The data-scientists were trying to collect evidence to prove their thesis that people's moods could spread like an "emotional contagion" depending on the tenor of the content that they were reading.
The study concluded that people were more likely to post negative updates about their lives after the volume of positive information appearing in their Facebook feeds had been purposefully reduced by the researchers. The opposite reaction occurred when the number of negative posts appeared in people's news feeds.
None of the participants in the Facebook experiments were explicitly asked for their permission, though the social network's terms of use appears to allow for the company to manipulate what appears in users' news feeds however it sees fits.
Facebook's data-use policy says the Menlo Park, California, company can deploy user information for "internal operations, including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research and service improvement."
The reaction to the study itself provided evidence of how quickly an emotional contagion can spread online. The research was released a month ago, but it didn't provoke a backlash until the past few days after other social media sites and essays in The New York Times and The Atlantic raised red flags about the ethics of Facebook's experiment.
As it has done in several past breaches of privacy etiquette, Facebook is now trying to make amends.
Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, told television network NDTV in India that "we clearly communicated really badly about this and that we really regret." Later she added: "Facebook has apologized and certainly we never want to do anything that upsets users."
The words of contrition sounded hollow to Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a privacy-rights group. He points to Facebook job openings looking for researchers specializing in data mining and analysis as evidence that the company still has every intention of digging deeper into its users' psyches and preferences.
"They are engaged in secret surveillance of its users to figure out how to make more money for their advertisers," Chester said.
Whatever Facebook has been doing has been paying off for the company and its shareholders. Facebook's revenue last year rose 55 percent to $7.9 billion and its stock has nearly tripled in value during the past year.
The concern over Facebook's experiment comes amid interest in Europe about beefing up data-protection rules. The European Court of Justice last month ruled that Google must respond to users' requests seeking to remove links to personal information.
Suzy Moat, a Warwick Business School assistant professor of behavioral science, said businesses regularly do studies on how to influence behavior. She cited the example of Facebook and Amazon experimenting with showing different groups of people slightly different versions of their websites to see if one is better than another at getting customers to buy products.
"On the other hand, it's extremely understandable that many people are upset that their behavior may have been manipulated for purely scientific purposes without their consent," Moat said. "In particular, Facebook's user base is so wide that everyone wonders if they were in the experiment."
___
Liedtke reported from San Francisco. Mae Anderson in New York contributed to this report.

Facebook Got Permission To Do 'Research' On Users 4 Months After Emotion Manipulation Study - Forbes
Unless you've spent the last couple of days in a Faraday pouch under a rock, you've heard about Facebook's controversial 'emotion manipulation' study. Facebook data scientist Adam Kramer ran an experiment on 689,003 Facebook users two and a half years ago to find out whether emotions were contagious on the social network. It lasted for a week in January 2012. It came to light recently when he and his two co-researchers from Cornell University and University of California-SF published their study describing how users' moods changed when Facebook curated the content of their News Feeds to highlight the good, happy stuff (for the lucky group) vs. the negative, depressing stuff (for the unlucky and hopefully-not-clinically-depressed group). The idea of Facebook manipulating users' emotions for science -- without telling them or explicitly asking them first -- rubbed many the wrong way. Critics and defenders alike pointed out that Facebook's "permission" came from its Data Use Policy which among its thousands of words informs people that their information might be used for "internal operations," including "research." However, we were all relying on what Facebook's data policy says now. In January 2012, the policy did not say anything about users potentially being guinea pigs, made to have a crappy day for science, nor that "research" is something that might happen on the platform.
Four months after this study happened, in May 2012, Facebook made changes to its data use policy, and that's when it introduced this line about how it might use your information: "For internal operations, including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research and service improvement." Facebook helpfully posted a "red-line" version of the new policy, contrasting it with the prior version from September 2011 -- which did not mention anything about user information being used in "research." Here is the relevant part:
Facebook made this change in May 2012, four months after it ran its emotion manipulation study.
Some critics don't think that throwing the word "research" into a many-thousands-word-long data use policy is adequate for performing psychological experiments on users, but now it seems that Facebook hadn't even done that. It's worth noting that in January 2012, Facebook was just coming off of getting its wrist slapped by the Federal Trade Commission. In November 2011, it settled a complaint from the FTC which had accused it of "unfair and deceptive" practices for playing fast and loose with user privacy. There was a consent decree that outlined practices Facebook needed to live up to. It was proposed in November and finalized in August 2012. It certainly muddies the legal waters around this.
Defenders of the Facebook study including my colleague Jeff Bercovici say that everyone on the Internet is doing A/B testing -- showing users two versions of something to see which resonates more based on how they click, share, and respond. But the Facebook study with its intention to manipulate the Facebook environment for unknowing users to see whether it made them feel elated or depressed seems different to me than the normal "will this make someone more likely to buy this thing" kind of testing. "They actually did a test to see whether it would have a deleterious effect on their users," says Pam Dixon of the World Privacy Forum. "This isn't A/B testing. They didn't just want to change users' behaviors, they wanted to change their moods."
I've reached out to Facebook for comment and will be updating this post.
The data use policy change from May 2012 is available in full below.
Facebook Data Policy 2011 v 2012
