UK opens probe into Facebook's psych experiment | Nation & World | The Seattle Times
LONDON --
British regulators are investigating revelations that Facebook treated hordes of its users like laboratory rats in an experiment probing into their emotions.
The Information Commissioner's Office said Wednesday that it wants to learn more about the circumstances underlying a 2-year-old study carried out by two U.S. universities and the world's largest social network.
The inquiry is being coordinated with authorities in Ireland, where Facebook has headquarters for its European operations, as well as with French regulators.
This is just the latest in a string of incidents that have raised questions about whether the privacy rights of Facebook's nearly 1.3 billion users are being trampled by the company's drive to dissect data and promote behavior that could help sell more online advertising.
In this case, Facebook allowed researchers to manipulate the content that appeared in the main section, or "news feed," of about 700,000 randomly selected users during a single week in January 2012. The data-scientists were trying to collect evidence to prove their thesis that people's moods could spread like an "emotional contagion" depending on the tenor of the content that they were reading.
The study concluded that people were more likely to post negative updates about their lives after the volume of positive information appearing in their Facebook feeds had been purposefully reduced by the researchers. The opposite reaction occurred when the number of negative posts appeared in people's news feeds.
None of the participants in the Facebook experiments were explicitly asked for their permission, though the social network's terms of use appears to allow for the company to manipulate what appears in users' news feeds however it sees fits.
Facebook's data-use policy says the Menlo Park, California, company can deploy user information for "internal operations, including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research and service improvement."
The reaction to the study itself provided evidence of how quickly an emotional contagion can spread online. The research was released a month ago, but it didn't provoke a backlash until the past few days after other social media sites and essays in The New York Times and The Atlantic raised red flags about the ethics of Facebook's experiment.
As it has done in several past breaches of privacy etiquette, Facebook is now trying to make amends.
Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, told television network NDTV in India that "we clearly communicated really badly about this and that we really regret." Later she added: "Facebook has apologized and certainly we never want to do anything that upsets users."
The words of contrition sounded hollow to Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a privacy-rights group. He points to Facebook job openings looking for researchers specializing in data mining and analysis as evidence that the company still has every intention of digging deeper into its users' psyches and preferences.
"They are engaged in secret surveillance of its users to figure out how to make more money for their advertisers," Chester said.
Whatever Facebook has been doing has been paying off for the company and its shareholders. Facebook's revenue last year rose 55 percent to $7.9 billion and its stock has nearly tripled in value during the past year.
The concern over Facebook's experiment comes amid interest in Europe about beefing up data-protection rules. The European Court of Justice last month ruled that Google must respond to users' requests seeking to remove links to personal information.
Suzy Moat, a Warwick Business School assistant professor of behavioral science, said businesses regularly do studies on how to influence behavior. She cited the example of Facebook and Amazon experimenting with showing different groups of people slightly different versions of their websites to see if one is better than another at getting customers to buy products.
"On the other hand, it's extremely understandable that many people are upset that their behavior may have been manipulated for purely scientific purposes without their consent," Moat said. "In particular, Facebook's user base is so wide that everyone wonders if they were in the experiment."
___
Liedtke reported from San Francisco. Mae Anderson in New York contributed to this report.

Almost 700,000 Facebook users had their news feeds secretly altered to study the impact of 'emotional contagion'
02 July 2014
Privacy chiefs are awaiting an explanation from Facebook over an alleged psychological experiment which recorded users' moods as news feeds on the social network were manipulated.
The Data Protection Commission (DPC) has confirmed it has been in contact with the web giant's Dublin headquarters to ask for a comprehensive explanation of the secret test.
The question of user consent is understood to be a major issue for the Irish watchdog.
In the UK, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) is also said to be looking into how the social network and two US universities altered news feeds of almost 700,000 users and monitored their reactions.
The study was said to be designed to measure the impact of ''emotional contagion''.
A spokeswoman for the DPC said: "I can confirm that this office has been in contact with Facebook in relation to the privacy issues, including consent, of this research. We are awaiting a comprehensive response on issues raised."
The UK inquiry will look at what data protection laws, if any, may have been broken, the Financial Times reported.
The experiment, carried out in one week during January 2012 in collaboration with Cornell University and the University of California, sparked a social media furore.
It is understood the aim of the government-sponsored study was to see whether positive or negative words in messages would lead to positive or negative content in status updates.
Many users reacted angrily following online reports of the findings, which were published in the June 17 edition of the prestigious Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
Some referred to it as ''creepy'', ''evil'', ''terrifying'' and ''super disturbing''.
A spokesman for the ICO said: "We're aware of this issue and will be speaking to Facebook, as well as liaising with the Irish data protection authority, to learn more about the circumstances."
Richard Allan, of Facebook, said the company will answer any questions regulators have.
"It's clear that people were upset by this study and we take responsibility for it," he said.
"We want to do better in the future and are improving our process based on this feedback. The study was done with appropriate protections for people's information and we are happy to answer any questions regulators may have."
Facebook said the research was conducted for one week in 2012 and none of the data used was associated with a specific individual's account.
It said research is part of improving its services and making content as relevant and engaging as possible. It said understanding users' responses is a big part of this.
Facebook also said there is no "unnecessary" collection of individuals' data during its research.
The company also said any suggestion that it carried out research without users' knowledge and permission is complete fiction.
A spokesperson added: "Companies that want to improve their services use the information their customers provide, whether or not their privacy policy uses the word 'research' or not."
Facebook also set out the ground rules for its use of information, which it claimed was primarily to develop the social media network.
COMMENT RULES: Comments that are judged to be defamatory, abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted. The moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator's decision is final. It is Belfast Telegraph policy to close comments on court cases, tribunals and active legal investigations. We may also close comments on articles which are being targeted for abuse. Problems with commenting? customercare@belfasttelegraph.co.uk
