UK opens probe into Facebook's psych experiment | Nation & World | The Seattle Times
LONDON --
British regulators are investigating revelations that Facebook treated hordes of its users like laboratory rats in an experiment probing into their emotions.
The Information Commissioner's Office said Wednesday that it wants to learn more about the circumstances underlying a 2-year-old study carried out by two U.S. universities and the world's largest social network.
The inquiry is being coordinated with authorities in Ireland, where Facebook has headquarters for its European operations, as well as with French regulators.
This is just the latest in a string of incidents that have raised questions about whether the privacy rights of Facebook's nearly 1.3 billion users are being trampled by the company's drive to dissect data and promote behavior that could help sell more online advertising.
In this case, Facebook allowed researchers to manipulate the content that appeared in the main section, or "news feed," of about 700,000 randomly selected users during a single week in January 2012. The data-scientists were trying to collect evidence to prove their thesis that people's moods could spread like an "emotional contagion" depending on the tenor of the content that they were reading.
The study concluded that people were more likely to post negative updates about their lives after the volume of positive information appearing in their Facebook feeds had been purposefully reduced by the researchers. The opposite reaction occurred when the number of negative posts appeared in people's news feeds.
None of the participants in the Facebook experiments were explicitly asked for their permission, though the social network's terms of use appears to allow for the company to manipulate what appears in users' news feeds however it sees fits.
Facebook's data-use policy says the Menlo Park, California, company can deploy user information for "internal operations, including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research and service improvement."
The reaction to the study itself provided evidence of how quickly an emotional contagion can spread online. The research was released a month ago, but it didn't provoke a backlash until the past few days after other social media sites and essays in The New York Times and The Atlantic raised red flags about the ethics of Facebook's experiment.
As it has done in several past breaches of privacy etiquette, Facebook is now trying to make amends.
Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, told television network NDTV in India that "we clearly communicated really badly about this and that we really regret." Later she added: "Facebook has apologized and certainly we never want to do anything that upsets users."
The words of contrition sounded hollow to Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a privacy-rights group. He points to Facebook job openings looking for researchers specializing in data mining and analysis as evidence that the company still has every intention of digging deeper into its users' psyches and preferences.
"They are engaged in secret surveillance of its users to figure out how to make more money for their advertisers," Chester said.
Whatever Facebook has been doing has been paying off for the company and its shareholders. Facebook's revenue last year rose 55 percent to $7.9 billion and its stock has nearly tripled in value during the past year.
The concern over Facebook's experiment comes amid interest in Europe about beefing up data-protection rules. The European Court of Justice last month ruled that Google must respond to users' requests seeking to remove links to personal information.
Suzy Moat, a Warwick Business School assistant professor of behavioral science, said businesses regularly do studies on how to influence behavior. She cited the example of Facebook and Amazon experimenting with showing different groups of people slightly different versions of their websites to see if one is better than another at getting customers to buy products.
"On the other hand, it's extremely understandable that many people are upset that their behavior may have been manipulated for purely scientific purposes without their consent," Moat said. "In particular, Facebook's user base is so wide that everyone wonders if they were in the experiment."
___
Liedtke reported from San Francisco. Mae Anderson in New York contributed to this report.

Privacy group files complaint over Facebook - Taipei Times
A leading privacy group filed a formal complaint on Thursday with the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) over a 2012 study in which Facebook manipulated the news feeds of nearly 700,000 users to see what effect the changes would have on their emotions.
The group, the Washington-based Electronic Privacy Information Center, said Facebook had deceived its users and violated the terms of a 2012 consent decree with the commission, which is the principal regulatory agency overseeing consumer privacy in the US.
"The company purposefully messed with people's minds. At the time of the experiment, Facebook did not state in the Data Use Policy that user data would be used for research purposes. Facebook also failed to inform users that their personal information would be shared with researchers," the advocacy group wrote in its complaint.
In the study, which lasted for one week in January 2012, Facebook changed the number of positive and negative posts that users saw in their feeds to see how that affected the emotional tone of the posts they made afterward. The research, which was published in an academic journal last week, found that people who were exposed to more negative material went on to write slightly more negative posts, and vice versa.
Facebook never sought formal permission from users for the study, arguing that its data use policy gave it sufficient permission to conduct the research. However, the privacy group noted that at the time of the emotion study, the company's data policy did not tell users that their personal information could be used for research purposes.
Regulators in Ireland and the UK are also asking questions about Facebook's actions over the study.
On Thursday, the journal that published the study, the US Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, issued an " expression of concern" regarding Facebook's decision not to get explicit consent from the affected users before running the study.
"Obtaining informed consent and allowing participants to opt out are best practices in most instances under the US Department of Health and Human Services Policy for the Protection of Human Research Subjects," the journal's editor-in-chief Inder Verma wrote in the note.
Although academic researchers are generally expected to follow the policy, Facebook, as a private company, was not required to do so, Verma said.
"It is nevertheless a matter of concern that the collection of the data by Facebook may have involved practices that were not fully consistent with the principles of obtaining informed consent and allowing participants to opt out," he said.
The company has apologized and said it has since adopted stricter internal standards for reviewing studies before they are begun.
"When someone signs up for Facebook, we've always asked permission to use their information to provide and enhance the services we offer," Facebook spokeswoman Jodi Seth said on Thursday.
"To suggest we conducted any corporate research without permission is complete fiction. Companies that want to improve their services use the information their customers provide, whether their privacy policy uses the word research or not," she added.
On Wednesday, Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, said the company was in communication with regulators all over the world and that "this will be OK."
