UK opens probe into Facebook's psych experiment | Nation & World | The Seattle Times
LONDON --
British regulators are investigating revelations that Facebook treated hordes of its users like laboratory rats in an experiment probing into their emotions.
The Information Commissioner's Office said Wednesday that it wants to learn more about the circumstances underlying a 2-year-old study carried out by two U.S. universities and the world's largest social network.
The inquiry is being coordinated with authorities in Ireland, where Facebook has headquarters for its European operations, as well as with French regulators.
This is just the latest in a string of incidents that have raised questions about whether the privacy rights of Facebook's nearly 1.3 billion users are being trampled by the company's drive to dissect data and promote behavior that could help sell more online advertising.
In this case, Facebook allowed researchers to manipulate the content that appeared in the main section, or "news feed," of about 700,000 randomly selected users during a single week in January 2012. The data-scientists were trying to collect evidence to prove their thesis that people's moods could spread like an "emotional contagion" depending on the tenor of the content that they were reading.
The study concluded that people were more likely to post negative updates about their lives after the volume of positive information appearing in their Facebook feeds had been purposefully reduced by the researchers. The opposite reaction occurred when the number of negative posts appeared in people's news feeds.
None of the participants in the Facebook experiments were explicitly asked for their permission, though the social network's terms of use appears to allow for the company to manipulate what appears in users' news feeds however it sees fits.
Facebook's data-use policy says the Menlo Park, California, company can deploy user information for "internal operations, including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research and service improvement."
The reaction to the study itself provided evidence of how quickly an emotional contagion can spread online. The research was released a month ago, but it didn't provoke a backlash until the past few days after other social media sites and essays in The New York Times and The Atlantic raised red flags about the ethics of Facebook's experiment.
As it has done in several past breaches of privacy etiquette, Facebook is now trying to make amends.
Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, told television network NDTV in India that "we clearly communicated really badly about this and that we really regret." Later she added: "Facebook has apologized and certainly we never want to do anything that upsets users."
The words of contrition sounded hollow to Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a privacy-rights group. He points to Facebook job openings looking for researchers specializing in data mining and analysis as evidence that the company still has every intention of digging deeper into its users' psyches and preferences.
"They are engaged in secret surveillance of its users to figure out how to make more money for their advertisers," Chester said.
Whatever Facebook has been doing has been paying off for the company and its shareholders. Facebook's revenue last year rose 55 percent to $7.9 billion and its stock has nearly tripled in value during the past year.
The concern over Facebook's experiment comes amid interest in Europe about beefing up data-protection rules. The European Court of Justice last month ruled that Google must respond to users' requests seeking to remove links to personal information.
Suzy Moat, a Warwick Business School assistant professor of behavioral science, said businesses regularly do studies on how to influence behavior. She cited the example of Facebook and Amazon experimenting with showing different groups of people slightly different versions of their websites to see if one is better than another at getting customers to buy products.
"On the other hand, it's extremely understandable that many people are upset that their behavior may have been manipulated for purely scientific purposes without their consent," Moat said. "In particular, Facebook's user base is so wide that everyone wonders if they were in the experiment."
___
Liedtke reported from San Francisco. Mae Anderson in New York contributed to this report.

Facebook sought out by Modi - Companies | IOL Business | IOL.co.za
Reuters.
Narendra Modi.
New Delhi - Facebook and India's government agreed to work on health and education initiatives in the world's largest democracy and the social-networking company's second-biggest market.
"Being an avid user of social media myself, I talked about ways through which a platform such as Facebook can be used for governance and better interaction between the people and governments," Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote on his Facebook page today after a meeting with the company's chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg in New Delhi.
He also wants to use Facebook to promote tourism to India, he said.
Facebook is growing "incredibly fast" in India, Sandberg said yesterday.
While fewer than 1 in 5 Indians use the Internet now, Modi held rallies and on Facebook, Twitter and other digital media earlier this year in his election campaign that concluded with a landslide victory.
The government and Facebook have agreed to work closely together, Sandberg told reporters today in the Indian capital after meeting with Ravi Shankar Prasad, the nation's information technology and law minister.
The Menlo Park, California-based company wants to work on projects around girls and education in India, Sandberg said.
Facebook will expand its reach in Asia's third-largest economy through Internet.org, Sandberg said today.
Internet.org is a project started by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to bring the Internet to the two thirds of the world's population that don't have it.
Followers
India has an estimated 205 million Internet users, according to Arnab Mitra, managing director of LIQVD Asia, a digital advertising company.
The number will rise to as many as 370 million by 2015, in a country of 1.2 billion people, he predicts.
Modi is the second-most followed politician on Facebook in the world after Barack Obama, Carson Dalton, the networking site's communications chief for India, said in a text message today.
There were about 80 million users of social media in urban India at the time of the election, according to Internet and Mobile Association of India estimates.
A third live in towns with populations of less than 500,000 and a quarter in areas populated by under 200,000.
Modi is counting on social networking to keep his party in power, in a country where 372 million people -- or 31 percent of the population -- are below the age of 15, more than the population of the US.
A Facebook researcher apologised on June 29 for a test in January 2012 that altered the number of positive and negative comments that almost 700,000 users saw on their online feeds of articles and photos.
Disclosure of the experiment prompted some members to express outrage on Twitter's microblogging site about the research as a breach of privacy.
Facebook "communicated poorly" about the experiment, Sandberg said yesterday in New Delhi. - Bloomberg News
