Facebook could face an investigation by the US Federate Trade Commission (FTC) over its use of user data in the controversial "emotion contagion" experiment.
The US privacy pressure group the Electronic Privacy Information Centre (Epic) has filed a complaint with FTC demanding that the watchdog investigate Facebook's actions.
"The company purposefully messed with people's minds," states Epic in the complaint. "Facebook conducted the psychological experiment with researchers at Cornell University and the University of California, San Francisco, who failed to follow standard ethical protocols for human subject research."
The study conducted over one week in 2012 and published in the Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences, hid "a small percentage" of emotional words from peoples' news feeds, without their knowledge, to test what effect that had on the statuses or "likes" that they then posted or reacted to.
'Unfair and deceptive' acts and practices
"Facebook's conduct is both a deceptive trade practice under Section 5 of the FTC Act and a violation of the Commission's 2012 Consent Order," the complaint continues.
The FTC Act prohibits "unfair and deceptive" acts and practices, which Epic alleges Facebook's actions within the Cornell study countermand.
Facebook is also currently under a 20 year consent decree from the FTC that requires Facebook to protect user privacy, first imposed in July 2012, after an FTC investigation found the social network to be in volition of the FTC Act in the US.
The settlement caused Facebook to increase its privacy and security of information measures, as well as preventing the social network from misrepresenting the extent to which user data is held as private.
"Facebook's failure to adequately disclose that it shared consumer data with third-party researchers constitutes a deceptive act or practice in violation of Section 5(a) of the FTC Act," states the Epic complaint. "Facebook has violated Count I of its 2012 Consent Order with the FTC and is subject to FTC enforcement in Federal district court."
Epic demands that Facebook makes public the NewsFeed algorithm
As well as demanding that the FTC conducts an investigation into the study and sharing of data without explicit user consent with third-party researchers at Cornell University, Epic demands that Facebook makes public the proprietary algorithm that produces the NewsFeed.
The FTC last investigated Facebook after the company made changes to the way information privacy was handled making some previously private information - such as friends lists - public without warning or approval in advance.
The company settled with the FTC in November 2011 over the what the regulator described as Facebook "deceiving consumers by telling them they could keep their information on Facebook private, and then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public."
The settlement included a clause that forces Facebook to obtain consent for making any changes to privacy settings, something Epic alleges was not the case for the nearly 700,000 users unwittingly involved in the "emotion contagion" study.
Epic was part of the original complaint group in 2009 and 2010 that induced the investigation by the FTC.
Facebook declined to comment.
* Facebook denies military ties for its emotion contagion research
