Facebook Got Permission To Do 'Research' On Users 4 Months After Emotion Manipulation Study - Forbes
Unless you've spent the last couple of days in a Faraday pouch under a rock, you've heard about Facebook's controversial 'emotion manipulation' study. Facebook data scientist Adam Kramer ran an experiment on 689,003 Facebook users two and a half years ago to find out whether emotions were contagious on the social network. It lasted for a week in January 2012. It came to light recently when he and his two co-researchers from Cornell University and University of California-SF published their study describing how users' moods changed when Facebook curated the content of their News Feeds to highlight the good, happy stuff (for the lucky group) vs. the negative, depressing stuff (for the unlucky and hopefully-not-clinically-depressed group). The idea of Facebook manipulating users' emotions for science -- without telling them or explicitly asking them first -- rubbed many the wrong way. Critics and defenders alike pointed out that Facebook's "permission" came from its Data Use Policy which among its thousands of words informs people that their information might be used for "internal operations," including "research." However, we were all relying on what Facebook's data policy says now. In January 2012, the policy did not say anything about users potentially being guinea pigs, made to have a crappy day for science, nor that "research" is something that might happen on the platform.
Four months after this study happened, in May 2012, Facebook made changes to its data use policy, and that's when it introduced this line about how it might use your information: "For internal operations, including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research and service improvement." Facebook helpfully posted a "red-line" version of the new policy, contrasting it with the prior version from September 2011 -- which did not mention anything about user information being used in "research." Here is the relevant part:
Facebook made this change in May 2012, four months after it ran its emotion manipulation study.
Some critics don't think that throwing the word "research" into a many-thousands-word-long data use policy is adequate for performing psychological experiments on users, but now it seems that Facebook hadn't even done that. It's worth noting that in January 2012, Facebook was just coming off of getting its wrist slapped by the Federal Trade Commission. In November 2011, it settled a complaint from the FTC which had accused it of "unfair and deceptive" practices for playing fast and loose with user privacy. There was a consent decree that outlined practices Facebook needed to live up to. It was proposed in November and finalized in August 2012. It certainly muddies the legal waters around this.
Defenders of the Facebook study including my colleague Jeff Bercovici say that everyone on the Internet is doing A/B testing -- showing users two versions of something to see which resonates more based on how they click, share, and respond. But the Facebook study with its intention to manipulate the Facebook environment for unknowing users to see whether it made them feel elated or depressed seems different to me than the normal "will this make someone more likely to buy this thing" kind of testing. "They actually did a test to see whether it would have a deleterious effect on their users," says Pam Dixon of the World Privacy Forum. "This isn't A/B testing. They didn't just want to change users' behaviors, they wanted to change their moods."
I've reached out to Facebook for comment and will be updating this post.
The data use policy change from May 2012 is available in full below.
Facebook Data Policy 2011 v 2012
