Hobby Lobby: Believe it or not | The Economist
Pro-lifers are elated
TWO years ago the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. A decision on June 30th was less favourable. The Court allowed an exception to Obamacare's mandate that firms above a certain size offer their staff insurance that includes free contraception. Rarely has a decision provoked such controversy. Hillary Clinton called it "deeply disturbing" , though her husband signed the law that underpins it.
The case, Burwell v Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc, was brought by two Christian families and their businesses. The Greens own Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft shops, and Mardel, a Christian bookstore; the Hahns own Conestoga Wood Specialties, a cabinetmaker. Obamacare requires firms to offer their workers all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The Greens and Hahns believe that four of those contraceptives, including the "morning-after pill", are abortifacients, since they may keep a fertilised egg from implanting in the uterine wall.
In this section
Related topics
The issue was not whether these highly debatable beliefs are valid, but the circumstances under which a religious objection may trump a federal law. The constitution protects the right to the "free exercise" of religion. A 1993 law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, further requires that the government "shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion" unless doing so is the least restrictive way to advance a compelling government interest. By five votes to four, the court ruled that obliging closely held firms with religious owners to pay for their employees' contraceptives violates that principle.
The government had argued that Hobby Lobby could not claim to have religious beliefs because it is a for-profit corporation. "While the Greens are persons who exercise religion, there is a critical separation between the Greens and the corporation they have elected to create," the government's lawyers insisted. A company has rights and obligations that differ from those of its owners. That includes being subject to Obamacare's employer mandate, they argued.
The court's conservative justices disagreed. "Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby, Conestoga and Mardel protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control these companies," wrote Justice Samuel Alito. If Hobby Lobby refused to cover the four contraceptives, it faced fines of up to $475m a year, which Mr Alito said clearly counted as a "substantial burden". And the government had other, less onerous ways to provide contraception, he argued. For example, it could pay for contraception itself or include for-profit companies in an "accommodation" already made for non-profit religious organisations, such as Catholic universities. Under that accommodation, insurers cover the cost of contraception, without raising prices for employers or their workers.
Mr Alito insisted that the ruling was a narrow one, applying only to closely held firms under very specific circumstances. It is unclear how the government will now ensure that women with religious employers obtain free contraception. The "accommodation" may not be viable; its legality is being challenged by separate suits. Some women may have to pay for their own contraceptives. (Since the cost of company-provided insurance comes largely out of wages, many women with employer coverage are already paying some of the cost of their contraceptives.)
The ruling could make it harder to enforce the Obamacare mandate that employers offer health insurance (a mandate that has already been delayed). Many firms are "closely held", including some that employ tens of thousands of workers. These companies may now seek exemptions from other parts of the mandate.
On July 1st the Supreme Court ordered lower courts to revisit objections to a broader set of contraceptives, in addition to the four raised by Hobby Lobby. In future, companies might challenge Obamacare's mandate to cover immunisations, blood transfusions or medicines derived from pigs, though none has yet done so. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the decision was of "startling breadth". Companies, she wrote, "can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."


Obama Hands Venezuelan Leader a Cause to Stir Support

CARACAS, Venezuela — Just a few weeks ago, President Obama was being praised across Latin America for his decision to re-establish relations with Cuba, while President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela appeared increasingly isolated — a wobbly, unpopular leader resorting to ever more aggressive tactics to confront an economic crisis and clamp down on the political opposition.
But with Mr. Obama’s declaration this week that Venezuela is an “extraordinary threat to the national security” of the United States, that dynamic may be coming undone.
Suddenly, the United States is being cast again in the familiar role of the hemispheric bully trying to push around its smaller neighbors. And Mr. Maduro has taken on the mantle of victim, stirring up patriotic support at home, setting the opposition on the defensive and declaring that “we will never kneel before this arrogant empire that attacks and threatens” his country.
Continue reading the main story
RELATED COVERAGE
Obama Order Freezes Assets of 7 Officials in VenezuelaMARCH 9, 2015
President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela, center, at a military parade in February marking the 23rd anniversary of a failed coup.In Chávez, Maduro Trusts, Maybe to His Detriment and Venezuela’sMARCH 9, 2015
Venezuela Tells U.S. to Reduce Embassy StaffMARCH 2, 2015
“The optics of this are really just awful,” said David A. Smilde, a sociology professor at Tulane University who lives part time in Venezuela. “It was a strategic mistake. I think the Maduro government is going to get a lot of play out of this.”
The declaration by Mr. Obama came in an executive order that he signed on Monday. It authorized the American government to freeze any assets in the United States held by seven Venezuelan law enforcement and military officials whom Washington identified as being responsible for human rights abuses or violations of democratic due process.
While Washington hoped the move would focus attention on deteriorating conditions in Venezuela, it may have backfired by giving Mr. Maduro new momentum. Critics fear that he will use it as an excuse to crack down harder on an opposition that he characterizes as siding with the enemy.
On Tuesday evening, Mr. Maduro went before the National Assembly, warning that the United States was poised to attack Venezuela and saying that legislators should grant him decree powers that will allow him to make laws on his own.
“The aggression and the threat of the government of the United States is the greatest threat that the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, our country, has ever received,” he said to applause, with the yellow, blue and red presidential sash draped over his shoulder and a gold medal pinned over his heart. “Let’s close ranks like a single fist of men and women. We want peace.”
He spoke of past American military interventions in Latin America and warned that the United States was preparing an invasion and a naval blockade of Venezuela.
“For human rights, they are preparing to invade us,” he said, adding that he would personally oversee military exercises this Saturday for the defense of the country.
“I invite the entire Venezuelan people, in all the states and regions of the country, to join in,” he said. “No one messes with our country. The Yankee boot will never touch it.”
Venezuela and the United States have long had troubled relations, even though the United States is a major buyer of Venezuelan oil, the country’s main export.
Continue reading the main story
Mr. Maduro’s predecessor, Hugo Chávez, delighted in taunting and criticizing Washington. Mr. Maduro has followed Mr. Chávez’s lead, accusing the United States of sabotaging the economy and planning to overthrow him — accusations that officials in Washington have forcefully denied.
In recent months, as the Venezuelan economy has faltered and oil prices and his popularity have plunged, Mr. Maduro has raised the volume.
Officials in Washington said that declaring Venezuela a national security threat was largely a formality required by law in order to carry out sanctions, as was a further declaration in the executive order that the threat constituted a national emergency for the United States.
They also stressed that the sanctions were not against the country of Venezuela but only against individuals deemed responsible for human rights or other violations.
“The action taken earlier this week sends an unequivocal message on human rights and corruption,” William H. Duncan, the director of the State Department’s office of Andean affairs, said in a telephone interview Wednesday.
He rejected criticism that the action had backfired.
“This is not something you can take a snapshot of,” Mr. Duncan said. “It’s not about today, it’s not about tomorrow, it’s about what happens in Venezuela over the long haul.”
He added, “The Venezuelan government’s suggestion that we would meet this national emergency with force is simply not true.”
In part, the reaction seemed shaped by the language in the executive order, which declared that a small country in the midst of an economic crisis was a threat to the United States. To some, it raised the specter of past instances when Washington had manufactured threats to justify military action.
And it did not sit well in a region that resents historical American heavy-handedness and enjoys an increasing sense of independence from Washington.
Some Venezuelan opposition leaders cringed at the American move and said that it had put them on the defensive.
“Venezuela is not a threat to any country,” said the main opposition coalition, Democratic Unity, in a statement distancing itself from the American action and voicing disapproval of “unilateral sanctions.”
The Community of Latin American and Caribbean States and members of the Union of South American Nations, two regional bodies, issued statements expressing concern.
President Rafael Correa of Ecuador, a leftist ally of Venezuela, was more forceful, blasting the American move on Monday in a series of Twitter posts.
“It ought to be a joke in bad taste that reminds us of the darkest hours of our America, when we received invasions and dictatorships imposed by the imperialists,” Mr. Correa wrote. “Can’t they understand that Latin America has changed?”
Cuba issued a statement giving its “unconditional support” for Venezuela, a vital ally that supplies it with subsidized oil. It called the sanctions “arbitrary and aggressive.”
Many regional leaders remained silent, but Mr. Smilde said that the greater damage could come in a lack of support for American-led attempts to pressure Venezuela to ease up on the opposition.
Continue reading the main storyContinue reading the main storyContinue reading the main story
“It makes it much less likely that all the countries in the region are going to make statements or take actions or do anything that could look at the basic issues in Venezuela of human rights and governance,” he said.
The Obama administration last year resisted Congressional efforts to impose sanctions on Venezuela, which were pushed by legislators from both parties most closely tied to the traditional Cuban-American lobby advocating tougher actions toward Cuba and its leaders, Fidel and Raúl Castro.
But Congress passed a sanctions law in December and Mr. Obama signed it the day after announcing that he would normalize relations with Cuba and lift many of the elements of the economic embargo against Cuba.
The Cuba initiative won Mr. Obama resounding praise in Latin America — even from Mr. Maduro — and seemed to clear a fresh path for American diplomacy in the region. At least some of that new atmosphere seemed to evaporate this week.
“It’s a distraction from the real problems,” said Alfonso Marquina, an opposition legislator. “Last week, people talked about the lines and the shortage of milk and diapers, and today they only talk about Barack Obama’s declaration.”