Hobby Lobby: Believe it or not | The Economist
Pro-lifers are elated
TWO years ago the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. A decision on June 30th was less favourable. The Court allowed an exception to Obamacare's mandate that firms above a certain size offer their staff insurance that includes free contraception. Rarely has a decision provoked such controversy. Hillary Clinton called it "deeply disturbing" , though her husband signed the law that underpins it.
The case, Burwell v Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc, was brought by two Christian families and their businesses. The Greens own Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft shops, and Mardel, a Christian bookstore; the Hahns own Conestoga Wood Specialties, a cabinetmaker. Obamacare requires firms to offer their workers all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The Greens and Hahns believe that four of those contraceptives, including the "morning-after pill", are abortifacients, since they may keep a fertilised egg from implanting in the uterine wall.
In this section
Related topics
The issue was not whether these highly debatable beliefs are valid, but the circumstances under which a religious objection may trump a federal law. The constitution protects the right to the "free exercise" of religion. A 1993 law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, further requires that the government "shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion" unless doing so is the least restrictive way to advance a compelling government interest. By five votes to four, the court ruled that obliging closely held firms with religious owners to pay for their employees' contraceptives violates that principle.
The government had argued that Hobby Lobby could not claim to have religious beliefs because it is a for-profit corporation. "While the Greens are persons who exercise religion, there is a critical separation between the Greens and the corporation they have elected to create," the government's lawyers insisted. A company has rights and obligations that differ from those of its owners. That includes being subject to Obamacare's employer mandate, they argued.
The court's conservative justices disagreed. "Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby, Conestoga and Mardel protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control these companies," wrote Justice Samuel Alito. If Hobby Lobby refused to cover the four contraceptives, it faced fines of up to $475m a year, which Mr Alito said clearly counted as a "substantial burden". And the government had other, less onerous ways to provide contraception, he argued. For example, it could pay for contraception itself or include for-profit companies in an "accommodation" already made for non-profit religious organisations, such as Catholic universities. Under that accommodation, insurers cover the cost of contraception, without raising prices for employers or their workers.
Mr Alito insisted that the ruling was a narrow one, applying only to closely held firms under very specific circumstances. It is unclear how the government will now ensure that women with religious employers obtain free contraception. The "accommodation" may not be viable; its legality is being challenged by separate suits. Some women may have to pay for their own contraceptives. (Since the cost of company-provided insurance comes largely out of wages, many women with employer coverage are already paying some of the cost of their contraceptives.)
The ruling could make it harder to enforce the Obamacare mandate that employers offer health insurance (a mandate that has already been delayed). Many firms are "closely held", including some that employ tens of thousands of workers. These companies may now seek exemptions from other parts of the mandate.
On July 1st the Supreme Court ordered lower courts to revisit objections to a broader set of contraceptives, in addition to the four raised by Hobby Lobby. In future, companies might challenge Obamacare's mandate to cover immunisations, blood transfusions or medicines derived from pigs, though none has yet done so. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the decision was of "startling breadth". Companies, she wrote, "can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."

The Supreme Court opens the floodgates - The Washington Post
It didn't take long for the conservatives on the Supreme Court to show that their decision in the Hobby Lobby case goes farther than Justice Alito professed when he wrote it -- just as the liberal dissenters charged. Yesterday the Court granted an "emergency" injunction to Wheaton College, a Christian college in Illinois, so that the college wouldn't have to endure the burden of filling out a form certifying their objections to contraception. The move sparked a blistering dissent from the Court's three female justices, in which they wrote, "Those who are bound by our decisions usually believe they can take us at our word. Not so today."
On its surface, this case appears to be a rather dull dispute about paperwork. But it actually gets to a much more fundamental question about what kinds of demands for special privileges people and organizations can make of the government on the basis of their religious beliefs.
One of the central points Alito made in the Hobby Lobby decision was that the company could be exempted from the law's requirement that insurance plans cover contraception because there was a less restrictive means for the government to achieve its goal. This less restrictive means, he said, was the procedure the government had set up for religious non-profits: the group signs a form stating its objection and gives a copy to the government and to its third-party insurance administrator, which will can then arrange for people to get contraception without the non-profit's involvement or money. The fact that this procedure exists is what Justice Alito himself cited in the Hobby Lobby decision as proof that there was a less restrictive means for the government to accomplish its goal of guaranteeing preventive care, and for Hobby Lobby to keep clear of any involvement in contraception.
Yet in yesterday's order, the conservative justices said this procedure -- signing a form -- is itself an unacceptable "burden" on Wheaton College's religious freedom.
This June 30, 2014 file photo shows the Supreme Court in Washington. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais, File)
We don't have to get into the administrative nightmare this could cause. (The dissent describes it well.) But the point is that there is seemingly no length this Court says the government shouldn't go to accommodate this particular religious belief. A company or a university doesn't want to follow the law? Well, we have to respect that -- they can just sign a form stating their objection. Oh, they don't want to sign the form? Well never mind, they don't have to do that either.
When the Hobby Lobby decision came down on Monday, liberals warned that it was going to open the floodgates to all kinds of claims in which people would say that their "sincerely held" religious beliefs should excuse them from following the law. "My religion tells me I shouldn't serve black people in my restaurant." "My religion tells me not to pay sales taxes." "My religion tells me that I should operate a brothel on my suburban cul de sac."
But Alito wrote that that wouldn't be a problem because in those kinds of cases the government was already employing the least restrictive means available to accomplish its legitimate goals, whether it's stopping discrimination or collecting taxes or preventing prostitution. What the Wheaton College injunction shows, however, is that it matters very much who's claiming that the law doesn't apply to them. As much as the Court's majority might want to believe their rulings are based in abstract principles that would apply to anyone, if you think they'd be working so hard to accommodate the claims for privilege of Muslims or Hindus or members of religious groups that the five conservatives on the Court do not have such an affinity for, you're fooling yourself.
For some time now, conservatives have been claiming there's a "war on religion" in America, but what they really want is special privileges, not for religion in general but for certain religions. They want government meetings to start with their prayers, they want their scriptures pinned on the walls of courthouses, they want everyone to celebrate their holidays and when they find the law displeasing -- whether it's a law about health care or discrimination or anything else -- they want an exemption carved out just for them.
As important as the Hobby Lobby case is, it may be the seemingly small Wheaton College injunction that has the real effects. That's because it's a clear signal to everyone that the Hobby Lobby decision is infinitely flexible. As long as you liked the ruling, you don't have to worry about whether the Court's reasoning actually applies to your situation, because the Court doesn't care. Go ahead and say the law doesn't apply to you. As long as you say it's because of your religion -- provided it's the right religion, and a belief like an abhorrence of contraception that the Court's conservative majority shares -- you'll probably get away with it. And make no mistake: There are going to be a huge number of organizations, businesses, and individuals -- probably thousands -- that are going to try.
