Hobby Lobby: Believe it or not | The Economist
Pro-lifers are elated
TWO years ago the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. A decision on June 30th was less favourable. The Court allowed an exception to Obamacare's mandate that firms above a certain size offer their staff insurance that includes free contraception. Rarely has a decision provoked such controversy. Hillary Clinton called it "deeply disturbing" , though her husband signed the law that underpins it.
The case, Burwell v Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc, was brought by two Christian families and their businesses. The Greens own Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft shops, and Mardel, a Christian bookstore; the Hahns own Conestoga Wood Specialties, a cabinetmaker. Obamacare requires firms to offer their workers all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The Greens and Hahns believe that four of those contraceptives, including the "morning-after pill", are abortifacients, since they may keep a fertilised egg from implanting in the uterine wall.
In this section
Related topics
The issue was not whether these highly debatable beliefs are valid, but the circumstances under which a religious objection may trump a federal law. The constitution protects the right to the "free exercise" of religion. A 1993 law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, further requires that the government "shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion" unless doing so is the least restrictive way to advance a compelling government interest. By five votes to four, the court ruled that obliging closely held firms with religious owners to pay for their employees' contraceptives violates that principle.
The government had argued that Hobby Lobby could not claim to have religious beliefs because it is a for-profit corporation. "While the Greens are persons who exercise religion, there is a critical separation between the Greens and the corporation they have elected to create," the government's lawyers insisted. A company has rights and obligations that differ from those of its owners. That includes being subject to Obamacare's employer mandate, they argued.
The court's conservative justices disagreed. "Protecting the free-exercise rights of corporations like Hobby Lobby, Conestoga and Mardel protects the religious liberty of the humans who own and control these companies," wrote Justice Samuel Alito. If Hobby Lobby refused to cover the four contraceptives, it faced fines of up to $475m a year, which Mr Alito said clearly counted as a "substantial burden". And the government had other, less onerous ways to provide contraception, he argued. For example, it could pay for contraception itself or include for-profit companies in an "accommodation" already made for non-profit religious organisations, such as Catholic universities. Under that accommodation, insurers cover the cost of contraception, without raising prices for employers or their workers.
Mr Alito insisted that the ruling was a narrow one, applying only to closely held firms under very specific circumstances. It is unclear how the government will now ensure that women with religious employers obtain free contraception. The "accommodation" may not be viable; its legality is being challenged by separate suits. Some women may have to pay for their own contraceptives. (Since the cost of company-provided insurance comes largely out of wages, many women with employer coverage are already paying some of the cost of their contraceptives.)
The ruling could make it harder to enforce the Obamacare mandate that employers offer health insurance (a mandate that has already been delayed). Many firms are "closely held", including some that employ tens of thousands of workers. These companies may now seek exemptions from other parts of the mandate.
On July 1st the Supreme Court ordered lower courts to revisit objections to a broader set of contraceptives, in addition to the four raised by Hobby Lobby. In future, companies might challenge Obamacare's mandate to cover immunisations, blood transfusions or medicines derived from pigs, though none has yet done so. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the decision was of "startling breadth". Companies, she wrote, "can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs."

The Hobby Lobby Mess: 3 Quick Facts You Need to Know About - Forbes
The Supreme Court announced on Monday, June 30, 2014, that the "Hobby Lobby" case - as it's widely recognized, although increasingly being referred to as the "Hobby Lobby Mess", as well - would not be forced to pay for insurance that covers contraception. Hobby Lobby, a family owned business, believed that by having to do so, it violates their religious freedom. Despite the fact that most women in America rely on birth control at some point in their lives, Hobby Lobby believes this is not acceptable and therefore, they do not want to have to contribute any dollars towards women's birth control.
With this in mind, let's look at some recent findings that have been unveiled since this announcement was made - many of which you may find either surprising, disgusting or - as I do - very ironic.
1. Hobby Lobby still provides benefits to employees who need erectile dysfunction treatments, Viagra and vasectomies. The male condom is also covered in their plan.
2. Hobby Lobby had five male justices from the Supreme Court - note, zero women - make the decision that Hobby Lobby would "win" their case. While this was out of Hobby Lobby's actual control, it does seem rather coincidental, doesn't it?
3. Hobby Lobby - as reported by various media outlets that include Mother Jones - has about $73 million invested in the company that makes the Plan B morning-after pill... aka, a pill often recognized as a type of abortion or prevention of pregnancy and hence, something that could have been prevented with appropriate birth control.
This "mess" continues to unveil new findings, new judgement and new controversy everyday. At this point, it's a waiting game to see exactly how this will impact not only the sales of Hobby Lobby, but more importantly - the lives of it's employees, as well. And while consumers can choose to skip over Hobby Lobby on their future shopping excursions, the real question remains... Just what does this slippery slope style case mean for the rest of corporate America looking to throw their weight around?
