Kenneth Feinberg On GM Payouts: 'Fast Is Possible, Fair Isn't' - Law Blog - WSJ
Getty Images
How do you put a price tag on a human life?
That question is Kenneth Feinberg's job description in a nutshell.
Lawmakers, companies and large organizations call upon the Washington, D.C., lawyer to direct compensation funds to pay the victims and loved ones following tragedies like the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, 2013 Boston Marathon bombings and corporate mishaps like the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
On Monday, Mr. Feinberg outlined the detailed strategy that General Motors Co. will follow in making payouts to the injured and families of the dead killed in accidents linked to Chevrolet Cobalts equipped with a defective ignition switch. Individual payouts could be anywhere from $20,000 to several million, and it is still unknown how much the program will ultimately cost GM. Those who accept a check must waive their right to sue the company.
The lawyer says he handles the thorny, emotionally and fiscally complex work of compensation by working quickly to "get the money moving out the door."
Mr. Feinberg spoke to The Wall Street Journal about what is next for GM and how empathy figures into his job. Edited excerpts:
Q: How do you think your plan to compensate those affected by the ignition switch recall will be received by the company, lawyers and victims?
A: I don't think anybody will be perfectly satisfied with this program. It will work because it is voluntary and the only real test of whether a program like this is how quickly you can deliver compensation to victims.
The longer you hold up delivery of compensation, the more skeptical people become. The more angry they become and the more frustrated. The key to all of these programs--9/11 and BP and One Fund Boston and Virginia Tech--is, how soon can you get money out the door? All the words in the world are ultimately meaningless if the money doesn't flow. That is the way it is.
Q: Is a compensation plan something more companies should consider using?
A: Companies have to weigh the cost, the litigation alternative and the public-relations black eye. You can't come up with a formula for when companies should create a program like this. These programs are exceedingly rare.
The normal approach is litigate. Look at the Exxon Valdez [oil tanker that ran aground in Prince William Sound in 1989, spilling hundreds of thousands of barrel of oil in Alaska]. They did so for years. Millions for defense. That is the American way.
Q: Why did GM and BP PLC, the company responsible in the Deepwater Horizon spill, create compensation funds for victims?
A: They take the view [that] they are not in the claims business. We make automobiles and we drill for oil. That is what they know best. This whole American legal system and mass claims and litigation....We think we need help in getting over this problem so we can do what we do best... and that is what GM and BP decided to do.
Q: How do you set the price tag on a person's life?
A: You look at how much would a person have earned over a lifetime but for this tragedy. The statistics are out there and judges and juries do it every day. Add to that pain and suffering visit on the victim and emotional distress visited on the survivors. What I do not do, and some people think I do this, is value the moral integrity of any person. Priests and rabbis might take a look at that but I can't do that.
The dollars associated with claims are a calculation. If a stockbroker falls off a ladder, he will get more money from a jury than if a waiter or a busboy falls off a ladder. It is the American system. The loss value of a professional work life. It is not existential and it is not moral evaluation. No one can do that.
Continue reading on WSJ.com.
