Jerry Sandusky investigators showed 'inexcusable lack of urgency' in case against ex-Penn State coach: report - NY Daily News
PAT LITTLE/REUTERS Prosecutors and police took up to three years to get the ball rolling in the sex-abuse investigation of Jerry Sandusky (center), a new report finds.
A shoddy investigation enabled ex-Penn State coach Jerry Sandusky to stay on the loose to molest children, says a report released Monday.
But the 339-page report by the Pennsylvania Attorney General's Office found no evidence politics played a role in stalling the 32-month investigation of the pervert coach.
"This was a full and fair review. The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator," said Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane.
Citing the report, Kane blamed the delay in getting Sandusky off the street on a lousy investigation full of "inexplicable delays."
Problems the report cited included:
- Delays in getting documents from Penn State and Sandusky's charity, The Second Mile, which would have revealed a 1998 police report accusing Sandusky of child molestation.
- A bad decision not to search Sandusky's home until two years after the state Attorney General's Office received the case.
The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator.
- A lead prosecutor's recommendation to charge Sandusky in early 2010 was ignored for five months and then denied by superiors who demanded more than one victim to justify the prosecution of an iconic coach.
"The report documents that more investigative work took place in just one month in 2011 than in all of either 2009 or 2010," Kane noted.
While running for attorney general in 2012, Kane implied her predecessor, now Gov. Tom Corbett, may have delayed the investigation for political reasons.
Corbett -- a Republican who in 2011 authorized a $3 million state grant to The Second Mile charity -- denied he interfered in the Sandusky case.
Still, Kane, a Democrat, ordered the review once she took office.
"We found no direct evidence that electoral politics influenced any important decision made in the investigation," said Geoffrey Moulton, a former federal prosecutor who led the probe.
Bradley C Bower/AP Special Deputy Attorney General H. Geoffery Moulton Jr. (right) and Pennsylvania state Attorney General Kathleen Kane (left) ordered the report that exposes 'inexcusable' delays in the Sandusky case.
"In fact, we found nothing ... to indicate (former) Attorney General Corbett made any decisions at all in the investigation," Moulton said.
Corbett issued a statement Monday, saying "this investigation was never about politics."
"The Sandusky investigation was conducted with a single purpose: to ensure justice for the victims and families by taking a child predator off the streets. Nothing more. Nothing less," Corbett said in the statement.
Sandusky, who was legendary Penn State head coach Joe Paterno's defensive mastermind, was convicted in June 2012 of molesting 10 boys over a 15-year span.
The 70-year-old Sandusky was sentenced to up to 60 years in prison.
