College Football
Inquiry Finds No Political Pacing of Sandusky Case
By MARC TRACYJUNE 23, 2014
Continue reading the main story Share This Page
HARRISBURG, Pa. -- Gov. Tom Corbett of Pennsylvania may have taken longer than he should have to investigate claims of sexual abuse by the former Penn State football assistant Jerry Sandusky, but there was no evidence that he tried to slow the case for political purposes as he ran for the state's highest office, according to a report released Monday.
The report, commissioned by the state's current attorney general, delved into how Corbett -- a Republican who was the attorney general when the Sandusky allegations arose in 2008 and reached the attorney general's office in 2009 -- handled the case.
The current attorney general, Kathleen Kane, a Democrat, commissioned the report after suggesting publicly that Corbett might have been motivated by electoral politics as well as campaign donations from board members of the Second Mile, a charity for disadvantaged youth that Sandusky founded and was found to have used to prey on boys. Corbett is now seeking re-election.
But on Monday, the results of the investigation by H. Geoffrey Moulton Jr., a former federal prosecutor whom Kane appointed, essentially cleared Corbett of playing politics, concluding that there was "no direct evidence that electoral politics influenced any important decision made in the Sandusky investigation."
In a statement, Corbett said: "The Sandusky investigation was conducted with a single purpose: to ensure justice for the victims and families by taking a child predator off the streets. Nothing more. Nothing less. As I have said many times, this investigation was conducted appropriately and timely."
In 2012, Sandusky, 70, was convicted of sexually assaulting 10 boys and was sentenced to 30 to 60 years in prison. Penn State has reached civil settlements with 26 victims.
Still, as they announced the findings in a news conference Monday, Kane and Moulton second-guessed decisions that were made during the case, including how Corbett prosecuted it through a grand jury rather than quickly pressing charges.
"The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator," Kane said in a statement.
During the news conference, Kane contended that Sandusky had continued to sexually assault two boys into the fall of 2009, months after he knew an official investigation into child-abuse allegations was underway and after Corbett's office assumed jurisdiction over the case. Had the prosecutors handled the investigation differently, Kane said, this might have been avoided.
The boys apparently were ones Sandusky had abused previously. Investigators learned of this more recent abuse in the fall of 2011, Kane said.
"If there had been a search warrant issued in a very short period of time based upon Victim 1's statement," Kane said in a subsequent interview, "they would have found the additional victims, and they would have corroborated Victim 1's testimony to the point that there was enough for an arrest. And that could happen in a very short period of time -- days."
Two former prosecutors in Corbett's office -- Frank Fina and Randy Feathers -- disputed the allegation, and Fina, the chief of the criminal prosecution, called it an "outright fabrication."
"There was nobody who came forward who we found had been assaulted during this investigation," Fina said.
Moulton said in an interview Monday that those two victims were not mentioned in his report because they were beyond his scope.
Feathers and Fina called the report political, saying that the lawyers involved that that indicting Sandusky on the draft presentment -- with just a single victim and no physical evidence -- would have been unwise.
"We stand behind our investigation," said Feathers, the investigation's supervising lawyer.
At the news conference, Moulton acknowledged the validity of the prosecutors' decision but questioned whether more evidence might have been obtained by then.
The report documented that the Sandusky case was referred to Corbett's office in March 2009 and that allegations of multiple victims did not come to light until November 2010. The report found that the office chose not to arrest Sandusky in March 2010, when a prosecutor penned a draft presentment, and did not search Sandusky's home until June 2011, when a search ended up corroborating claims against him.
The review found that donations Corbett received from board members of the Second Mile had no bearing on Corbett's handling of the case.
Moulton's report, which is 166 pages and has 17 appendices, was completed after a review of tens of thousands of pages of documents and interviews with more than 50 people.
The report notes that a local district attorney's office possessed "institutional knowledge" of child abuse charges against Sandusky dating to 1998. A report commissioned by Penn State found that Coach Joe Paterno urged Penn State officials not to report a sexual assault allegation to theauthorities in 2001.
Kane said that she would have elected not to convene a grand jury and would have searched Sandusky's home under seal in March 2009.
However, she attributed these varying tactics to stylistic differences. So did the report, which described the discrepancy as "a reasonable exercise of prosecutorial discretion."
Steve Eder contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on June 24, 2014, on page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Inquiry Finds No Political Pacing of Sandusky Case . Order Reprints|Today's Paper|Subscribe

