Tracy Morgan 'doing good' following six-car smash - Independent.ie
Published 14/07/2014|13:50
Tracy Morgan is "doing good" and "resting", according to his son.
The 45-year-old 30 Rock star was involved in a six-car accident that took the life of comic James McNair last month.
Tracy sustained several injuries, including a broken leg, femur, nose and busted ribs.
As the first images of the comedian taken since the collision were published Sunday, his son, Tracy Jr., said the outlook for his father's recovery is bright.
"He's doing good. He's just resting," he told the New York Daily News outside of the family's New Jersey home.
TMZ meanwhile published photos of Tracy with his leg bandaged and sitting in a wheelchair while out.
The website reports the star is undergoing aggressive rehabilitation therapy.
Tracy was riding in a limousine in his home state when his vehicle collided with a tractor trailer on a turnpike during the early hours of June 7.
At the time of the tragedy he was travelling with four others in the back of the automobile.
Two other passengers in the front of the vehicle were unhurt.
Last Thursday, Tracy filed suit against Walmart, claiming the retailer was negligent because its driver, Kevin Roper, hadn't slept in 24 hours prior to the crash.
That driver pleaded not guilty to charges of vehicular homicide and assault by auto. He denies having fallen asleep at the wheel.
The case continues.

Tracy Morgan Pictured In A Wheelchair - www.channelstv.com
5 weeks after Former Saturday Night Live star, Tracy Morgan, was hit from behind by a Wal-Mart truck on the New Jersey Turnpike, he heads out in a wheelchair and was spotted for the first time since the accident that left a fellow comedian dead.
Tracy, who was moved to rehabilitation after being hospitalized, broke his femur in the accident and plans to continue rehabbing his broken leg and rib injury at home with an aggressive outpatient program.
The comedian is suing Wal-Mart for negligence, as one of their drivers was involved in auto accident on June 7, saying that they should have known that its driver had been awake for over 24 hours and that his commute of 700 miles from his home in Georgia to work in Delaware was 'unreasonable.'
The suit also alleges the driver fell asleep at the wheel, causing the crash.
His friend, James McNair was killed in the crash, while Comedian Ardie Fuqua, of Jersey City, remains in critical condition.
