Tracy Morgan 'doing good' following six-car smash - Independent.ie
Published 14/07/2014|13:50
Tracy Morgan is "doing good" and "resting", according to his son.
The 45-year-old 30 Rock star was involved in a six-car accident that took the life of comic James McNair last month.
Tracy sustained several injuries, including a broken leg, femur, nose and busted ribs.
As the first images of the comedian taken since the collision were published Sunday, his son, Tracy Jr., said the outlook for his father's recovery is bright.
"He's doing good. He's just resting," he told the New York Daily News outside of the family's New Jersey home.
TMZ meanwhile published photos of Tracy with his leg bandaged and sitting in a wheelchair while out.
The website reports the star is undergoing aggressive rehabilitation therapy.
Tracy was riding in a limousine in his home state when his vehicle collided with a tractor trailer on a turnpike during the early hours of June 7.
At the time of the tragedy he was travelling with four others in the back of the automobile.
Two other passengers in the front of the vehicle were unhurt.
Last Thursday, Tracy filed suit against Walmart, claiming the retailer was negligent because its driver, Kevin Roper, hadn't slept in 24 hours prior to the crash.
That driver pleaded not guilty to charges of vehicular homicide and assault by auto. He denies having fallen asleep at the wheel.
The case continues.

Tracy Morgan: 'I feel strong' | Celebrities | Entertainment | Toronto Sun
Comedian Tracy Morgan has spoken out for the first time after he was seriously injured in a multi-car pile up in New Jersey to assure fans he is feeling "strong".
The 30 Rock star was hospitalized in a critical condition on June 7 when a Wal-Mart truck slammed into the back of a limousine he was travelling in, killing his mentor and colleague James 'Jimmy Mack' McNair.
Morgan, 45, was released from a rehabilitation centre last week and has since returned to his New Jersey home, where he will continue his recovery for injuries including a broken leg, a broken nose and several broken ribs.
On Monday, he was pictured back on his feet with the help of a walker as he was helped into a waiting car outside his house.
Asked how he was feeling, he told photographers, "I'm OK. I feel strong. Love you. Thank you very much. I appreciate it."
Wal-Mart driver Kevin Roper stands accused causing the multi-vehicle accident after allegedly falling asleep at the wheel of his truck.
Morgan, his assistant Jeffrey Millea and comedian Ardie Fuqua, who were also injured in the crash, filed suit against bosses at the U.S. superstore on Thursday, accusing them of negligence, alleging company executives should have known Roper had been awake for more than 24 hours and that his drive from his home in Georgia to work in Delaware was "unreasonable".
Roper denies charges of vehicular homicide and assault by auto.
