Tracy Morgan 'doing good' following six-car smash - Independent.ie
Published 14/07/2014|13:50
Tracy Morgan is "doing good" and "resting", according to his son.
The 45-year-old 30 Rock star was involved in a six-car accident that took the life of comic James McNair last month.
Tracy sustained several injuries, including a broken leg, femur, nose and busted ribs.
As the first images of the comedian taken since the collision were published Sunday, his son, Tracy Jr., said the outlook for his father's recovery is bright.
"He's doing good. He's just resting," he told the New York Daily News outside of the family's New Jersey home.
TMZ meanwhile published photos of Tracy with his leg bandaged and sitting in a wheelchair while out.
The website reports the star is undergoing aggressive rehabilitation therapy.
Tracy was riding in a limousine in his home state when his vehicle collided with a tractor trailer on a turnpike during the early hours of June 7.
At the time of the tragedy he was travelling with four others in the back of the automobile.
Two other passengers in the front of the vehicle were unhurt.
Last Thursday, Tracy filed suit against Walmart, claiming the retailer was negligent because its driver, Kevin Roper, hadn't slept in 24 hours prior to the crash.
That driver pleaded not guilty to charges of vehicular homicide and assault by auto. He denies having fallen asleep at the wheel.
The case continues.

Tracy Morgan Speaks Out for the First Time Since Crash - ABC News
Tracy Morgan is on the mend.
The actor spoke out today as he left his home in Cresskill, N.J.
"I'm OK," he said, according to the New York Daily News. "I feel strong."
Then, when photographers applauded the former "30 Rock" star, who walked slowly and with a walker, he waved and smiled.
"Love you, thank you very much," he said. "Appreciate it."
Tracy Morgan Sues WalMart
Tracy Morgan Is Released From the Hospital
Tracy Morgan's Recovery 'Will Be Arduous,' Rep Says
Morgan, 45, was seriously injured last month when a truck hit the vehicle in which he was riding. He suffered a broken femur, a broken nose and several broken ribs, among other injuries. His friend, comedian James McNair, died.
On Saturday, a rep for the comedian told ABC News that he had been released from a rehabilitation center and moved home, where he will continue to recover "with an aggressive outpatient program."
"He asked me to pass along his sincerest gratitude to everyone who has helped him get to this point," his publicist told ABC News. "He would also appreciate some privacy during this crucial point in his recovery."
