LPA north of Mindanao now a tropical depression
-A A +A
Thursday, July 17, 2014
MANILA -- The low pressure area (LPA) spotted Thursday outside the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) intensified into a tropical depression and is expected to enter the country on Saturday, the state weather bureau said.
In a bulletin, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (Pagasa) said the tropical depression was located at 990 kilometers east of Northern Mindanao with maximum sustained winds of 45 kilometers per hour.
Pagasa weather forecaster Chris Perez said the tropical depression has a high chance of developing into a tropical storm but it will not directly affect the country.
Satellite image courtesy of Pagasa
Perez said the new weather system will be locally named "Henry" once it enters the Philippine sea.
Perez said the tropical depression has less possibility of making a landfall in any part of the country but several parts of the country such as in Metro Manila, La Union, Benguet, Pangasinan, Bataan, Zambales, Palawan and Mindoro will still experience occasional rain shower due to the southwest monsoon.
"The rest of the country will be partly cloudy to cloudy skies with isolated rainshowers and thunderstorms," Pagasa said.
Pagasa said moderate to strong winds blowing from the southwest to south will prevail over Luzon.
"Fishing boats and other small seacrafts are advised not to venture out into the sea while larger sea vessels are alerted against big waves," the weather bureau said. (Sunnex)
DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.
Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
