Typhoon Rammasun's death toll rises to almost 60 | GulfNews.com
Manila: The death toll of Typhoon Rammasun (locally known as Glenda) rose to almost 60. It also injured hundreds, affected more than one million, and left half a million homeless in all affected areas in central Philippines, southern and northern Luzon, including Metro Manila all of which were paralyzed by power outages two days after the typhoon had exited to the South China Sea early Thursday, officials and other sources told Gulf News.
Fifty-seven people, including three missing were killed by fallen trees, collapsed buildings and flying debris when Typhoon Rammasun blighted all affected areas from Tuesday to Thursday. Figures might rise further after clearing operation ends on Saturday, Undersecretary Alexander Pama, also executive director of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) told Gulf News.
Of the more than one million affected residents, 500,000 lost their homes and were sheltered in 1,200 evacuation centres, said Pama, adding that 26,000 houses were totally and partially damaged.
Damaged infrastructure and agricultural products reached a total of P5.4 billion (Dh 375 million). Damaged rice, corn, high valued cash crops, livestock, and agricultural facilities in Central Luzon, Mimaropa, Bicol and Cordillera Administrative Region was assessed at P 4.529 billion and wrecked infrastructure in Central Luzon, Bicol, Eastern Visayas and National Capital Region was estimated at P892 million, said Pama.
Aqua-fisheries operations Laguna de Bay and Taal in southern Luzon, as well as those in Pampanga and Bataan provinces in northern Luzon were affected by Typhoon Rammasun, Pama added.
Most schools resumed classes in Metro Manila and southern Luzon on Friday. Public and private offices were opened earlier in all affected areas, on Thursday.
However, 35 per cent of all affected areas in Metro Manila and surrounding suburban areas remained without power, affecting schools, offices, and shopping centres that started operating there. In central Philippines, southern and northern Luzon, power outages were more frequent and other blighted areas remained 80 percent without water and power.
Residents were angered when Meralco renewed its promise that electricity would be restored 100 percent in all affected areas by Saturday.
Most roads and bridges in affected areas remained "half-clogged" by fallen trees and other typhoon debris. Residents started helping out because government workers were overwhelmed by the extent of the damage left by Typhoon Rammasun.
"Policemen were also involved in relief and rehabilitation operations, like cleanup of roads to make these passable, securing areas that need to be secured like evacuation centres," explained Chief Supt. Reuben Theodore Sindac, spokesman for the Philippine National Police.
It was the first powerful typhoon that landed in the Philippines at the start of the rainy season.
Every year, about 20 storms savage the Philippines. It is the southernmost door where all storms pass through when they enter northward to all other Southeast Asian countries in the region.

Observatory will raise typhoon signal No 3 as Rammasun intensifies closer to Hong Kong | South China Morning Post
The Observatory will raise typhoon signal No 3 in the next few hours as Typhoon Rammasun edges closer to Hong Kong, bringing with it squally showers and high winds.
A statement on the Observatory website warned that winds would increase throughout the day and that the strong wind signal would be raised this afternoon.
"At 2pm, Typhoon Rammasun was estimated to be about 630km south of Hong Kong (near 16.7 degrees north 115.1 degrees east)," the Observatory said.
"It is forecast to intensify and move northwest at about 22km/h in the general direction of western Guangdong and Hainan.
"Rammasun showed signs of intensification in the past few hours. As Rammasun edges closer to the south China coast, local winds are expected to continue strengthening. There will be squally showers and swells. The Observatory will issue the strong wind signal, No. 3 in the next few hours.
Hong Kong awoke this morning to a No 1 signal issued by the Observatory as wet and windy weather on the fringes of the typhoon brought some respite to days of stiflingly hot weather that has seen the city swelter.
The Observatory issued the lowest typhoon warning signal at 11.40pm last night as the storm moved to within 800 kilometres of the city.
With Rammasun edging closer to the South China coast, the Observatory predicted wind and rain for Hong Kong for the coming days.
Sea swells are also expected. People are advised to stay away from the shoreline and not to engage in water sports.
Watch: Typhoon shuts down Philippine capital
Typhoon Rammasun killed at least 11 people as it passed across the Philippines and hit the capital Manila on Wednesday, prompting the evacuation of more than 370,000 people, shutting financial markets, offices and schools.
The eye of the typhoon, the strongest storm to hit the country this year, passed to the south of Manila on Wednesday after cutting a path across the northern island of Luzon.
Cathay Pacific said it had cancelled four flights from Manila to Hong Kong on Wednesday and a further two from Hong Kong to Manila. The airline advised passengers to check their flight status on its website before departing for the airport.
Last week, Typhoon Neoguri battered Okinawa in Japan before moving to the Japanese mainland and forcing the evacuation of tens of thousands.
At least seven people were reported to have been killed as mudslides and floods hit houses.
While Hong Kong has avoided any typhoons so far this year, the city has sweltered, with the hottest June since records began in 1884.
The monthly average was 29 degrees Celsius - 1.1 degrees above normal for June.
Johnny Tam, Danny Mok, Reuters
