The FDA Moves To Regulate Increasingly Popular E-Cigarettes

The Food and Drug Administration says it will formally propose regulating e-cigarettes.

Early Thursday, the agency unveiled a long-awaited rule that would give it power to oversee the increasingly popular devices, much in the way that it regulates traditional cigarettes.

"It's a huge change," FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg told reporters in a briefing Wednesday, before the official announcement of the agency's plans. "We will have the authority as a science-based regulatory agency to take critical actions to promote and protect the health of the public."

The proposal will be subject to public comment and further review by the agency before becoming final. But once that happens the rule would impose new restrictions, including:
oA ban on the sale of e-cigarettes to minors.
oA prohibition on distributing free samples.
oA ban on selling e-cigarettes in vending machines unless they are in places that never admit young people.
oA requirement that e-cigarettes carry warnings that they contain nicotine, which is addictive.
oE-cigarette manufacturers would be required to disclose the ingredients in their products.

E-cigarettes are plastic or metal tubes about the size of a traditional cigarette that heat a liquid solution containing nicotine. That creates a vapor that users inhale. Their popularity has soared in recent years.

Some have welcomed the trend as a way to prevent people from smoking traditional cigarettes, which are far more dangerous, and to help smokers quit.

Others fear the devices will addict nonsmokers to nicotine and eventually lead to more people smoking. That has fueled calls for the FDA to assert its authority over the devices. Although e-cigarettes are generally considered much safer than traditional cigarettes, some fear that not enough research has been done to know what risks they may have.

"We call the current marketplace for e-cigarettes the Wild Wild West," said Mitchell Zeller, who heads the FDA's Center for Tobacco Products. "We will be in a position to ensure that the products are as safe as they could possibly be."

The FDA had previously attempted to regulate e-cigarettes, but that effort was thwarted in court. The agency recently signaled, however, that it planned to try again. Thursday's announcement will make that official.

The proposal would also require any new e-cigarettes to get FDA approval before being sold, and demand that current products provide a justification for remaining on the market.

The announcement stopped short of more aggressive regulation that some critics had called for, including restricting or banning fruit flavors and other sweet flavors that may appeal to young people.

It also will not restrict television advertising and online sales, as some had hoped. But Zeller and Hamburg said Thursday's move is the first step that could lead to such measures if the agency determines that is needed.

"This announcement starts the process that will give us the authority to actually get out there and regulate e-cigarettes," Hamburg said.

The FDA also is proposing regulation of a variety of other tobacco-related products, including cigars, nicotine gels, pipe tobacco and water pipes.

E-cigarette sellers take a page from Big Tobacco: Other View

Attempts to make nicotine addiction seem glamorous are back

Big tobacco ready to light e-cigarettes: The UK's first electronic cigarette coffee shop allows 'vapers' to drink a coffee, buy an e-cigarette and smoke it. It's the latest business in an industry which has grown to $2 billion globally in the last decade, and big tobacco firms are also gett


Screen grab of an ad for e-cigarettes featuring Jenny McCarthy. E-cigarette companies are advertising on TV, something forbidden for cigarettes for more than 40 years. 
Zoom 

Screen grab of an ad for e-cigarettes featuring Jenny McCarthy. E-cigarette companies are advertising on TV, something forbidden for cigarettes for more than 40 years. / AP Photo/Resound Marketing
   


Just when smoking has finally lost its glamour, along come electronic cigarettes and an avalanche of sexy new ads that promote "vaping."

In one, actor Stephen Dorff, shirtless, talks about taking "back your freedom" while inhaling vapor on Lorillard's blu eCig. (Can anyone say Marlboro Man?) In another ad for blu, former Playboy centerfold Jenny McCarthy leans forward seductively into the camera before saying: "I feel free to have one almost anywhere."

For a product whose main appeal is supposed to be that it's not a traditional cigarette, e-cigarette makers have sure taken a lot of pages from Big Tobacco's playbook. Which is not surprising. Many of the sellers are the same companies that made billions of dollars addicting people to a product that kills 480,000 a year.

The marketing push is enough to trouble anyone who believed that, after a half-century battle, the nation finally had smoking on the run and that fewer teenagers would get hooked and die prematurely.

E-cigarettes - battery-operated nicotine inhalers that contain no tobacco - have the potential to help some smokers quit. But the jury is still out on whether and how well they may work. In the meantime, the potential for nicotine addiction is high, and there's no good reason to use e-cigarettes other than trying to quit smoking.

Federal law prohibits cigarette makers from sponsoring sports and entertainment events, handing out free samples and selling certain flavored cigarettes. TV ads were banned in 1970.

But for e-cigarettes, it's open season. Makers have sponsored music festivals, fashion shows and IndyCar racing. You can buy e-cigarettes or liquid refills in everything from Cherry Blast to Gummy Bear. Is the public really supposed to believe that e-cigarettes are not being marketed to minors?

The dangers of e-cigarettes may not be as obvious as those of traditional smokes, but new problems are emerging.

For example, the nicotine-laced liquid the devices use, which comes in small vials and large containers, can be toxic if touched or consumed. Calls to poison control centers about misuse, mostly by children, have risen to 217 a month this year, almost 10 times the number in 2011.

Also troubling is that more teenagers are experimenting with e-cigarettes. In 2012, 1.8 million middle-school and high-school students tried them, double the number the year before. One in five of the middle-schoolers who experimented said they'd never smoked before. It doesn't help that about 20 states allow sales of e-cigarettes to minors.

So what's the right response? At least until more studies are done, all states should treat the new devices as they treat cigarettes, with bans on youth sales and indoor use. And the Food and Drug Administration, which has been slow to assert its authority to regulate e-cigarettes, ought to get on with it.

More independent research would determine if e-cigarettes really can help smokers quit. Or if they carry other health risks. For now, the nation ought to ensure that a new generation doesn't get hooked on a different and potentially dangerous product.
