Narendra Modi's first budget a victim of his own success - Hindustan Times
The new government has delivered its first budget studded with tax breaks, bold structural reforms and tighter spending. In an ideal world that would be hailed as a dream budget, considering the current weakness in the national economy.
PM Narendra Modi during the presentation of the union budget in Lok Sabha. (PTI photo)
Yet, so high are the expectations from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the budget has failed to generate the kind of euphoria usually associated with anything bearing his stamp. The budget, thus, appears to have become a victim of Modi's own success.
While investors had hoped Modi would use his strong election mandate to unleash a raft of reforms comparable to the opening up of the economy in 1991, many voters expected him to work a miracle to curb prices, create millions of new jobs and improve people's lifestyles.
Given the mountain of expectations, finance minister Arun Jaitley's job was never going to be easy.
Read: Words, just words: why budget is a missed opportunity
Read: FM Jaitley promises higher growth
In what is clearly a 'thank you voter' budget, the government raised tax income exemption limits, cut prices of middle class aspirations goods such as LCD/LED television sets and branded clothes, eased norms to boost housing as well as raised tax incentives on home loans.
Still, it was no mindless revenue-eroding populism.
Jaitley presented a budget to parliament on Thursday that not only vowed financial probity by restricting the fiscal deficit to 4.1% of gross domestic product in 2014-15, but also virtually keeping spending unchanged if one takes inflation into consideration.
In a signature initiative, which has been awaiting parliamentary nod for more than a decade, the government said it will also lift limits on foreign investment in defence and insurance to 49% from 26%.
Read: Cong leads opposition fire, dubs budget as 'anti-poor
Consider the long term benefits of the above measures: Lower deficits will lead to a reduction in inflation. Indigenous production of defence equipment will save precious foreign exchange, which in the long run should trigger a fall in the current account deficit.
In turn, balanced accounting books should stabilise the rupee and help in any future move towards full convertibility of the currency.
Some of Jaitley's far-reaching announcements were related to taxation, including a move towards a common Goods and Services Tax and a high level committee to review retrospective tax claims as well as a promise not to destabilise the tax regime with retrospective demands as far as possible.
To restart the investment cycle that can create the millions of jobs India needs, the government has eased foreign investment rules and offered investment allowance at the rate of 15% to the manufacturing sector that puts in more than Rs. 25 crore in any year in new plant and machinery.
Read: Jaitley's maiden budget aims for higher economic growth, provides tax breather
The government will also seek to raise a record $13 billion from selling state assets - nearly four times what the previous government raised in the fiscal year ended in March 2014. The government has also stated it will better target food and fuel subsidies.
In its far-reaching implications, Jaitley's proposals have the potential to be a game changer for India's economy.
It's a pity the new government's budget has fallen short of the most bullish expectations.
(Views expressed by the author are personal)

Budget 2014: What's cheaper & dearer for the common-man - The Economic Times
NEW DELHI: With a view to boost consumption in the economy and not compromise on the government's tax collection, Finance Minister
Arun Jaitley	 reduced customs duty on several products, but also hiked excise duties on other products.
The common-man found something to cheer for in Prime Minister Narendra Modi government's maiden budget, with
cosmetics	, soaps, footwear and mobiles set to become cheaper. However, smoking cigarettes and drinking aerated drinks is definitely going to cost you more now! We take a look what's
cheaper	 and what's
dearer	 post NDA's maiden budget:
Cheaper Cosmetics, soaps and certain pharmaceutical	: reduced the basic customs duty (BCD) on fatty acids, crude palm stearin, RBD and other palm stearin, specified industrial grade crude oils from 7.5 percent to Nil; crude glycerin from 12.5 percent to Nil and Crude glycerin from 12.5 percent to 7.5 percent.
Certain apparels 	(active-wear, gloves, hosiery, leggings, skinny jeans, skinny jeans, swim suits, undergarments, etc.)-- reduce the basic customs duty (BCD) on inputs for manufacture of spandex yarn from 5 percent to Nil.
India assembled/ manufactured computers and laptops	-Exemption on all inputs/components used in the manufacture of personal computers from 4 percent special additional duty (SAD)
Fully imported electronic items: 	FM has imposed an additional education cess on imported electronic products to provide parity between domestically produced goods and imported goods;
Mobile SIMs: 	a 4 per cent exemption on SAD on PVC sheet and ribbon used for the manufacture of smart cards.
Low-end television sets: 	Cathode ray TVs are used by weaker sections who cannot afford to buy more expensive flat panel TVs. FM has exempted colour picture tubes from basic customs duty to make cathode ray TVs cheaper.
LED/LCDs below 19 inches:	 to encourage production of LCD and LED TVs below 19 inches in India, FM proposed to reduce the basic customs duty on LCD and LED TV panels of below 19 inches from 10 percent to Nil. Also, to encourage manufacture of LCD and LED TV panels, FM proposed to exempt from basic customs duty specified inputs used in their manufacture.
Precious and semi-precious stones: 	Pre-forms of precious and semi-precious stones are being fully exempted from basic customs duty
FOOTWEAR: 	As a measure of relief to the footwear industry, FM reduced the excise duty from 12 percent to 6 percent on footwear of retail price exceeding Rs 500 per pair but not exceeding Rs 1,000 per pair. Footwear of retail price up to Rs 500 per pair will continue to remain exempted.
Solar equipments/products: 	FM has exempted the following from excise duty:
> EVA sheets and solar back sheets and specified inputs used in their manufacture;
> solar tempered glass used in the manufacture of solar photovoltaic cells and modules;
> flat
copper	 wire for the manufacture of PV ribbons for use in solar cells and modules
Cotton clothes and other products: 	service tax on loading, unloading, storage, warehousing and transportation of
cotton	, whether ginned or baled, has been exempted to bring it on par with certain other agricultural produce.
Dearer Cigarettes/cigars/ tobacco products and pan masala: 	FM has increased the specific excise duty on cigarettes in the range of 11 percent to 72 percent. Similar increases are proposed on cigars,cheroots and cigarillos. Likewise, the excise duty is being increased from 12 percent to 16 percent on pan masala, from 50 percent to 55 percent on unmanufactured tobacco and from 60 percent to 70 percent on gutkha and chewing tobacco.
Colas and other aerated drinks: 	FM proposed to levy an additional duty of excise at 5 percent on aerated waters containing added sugar.
Imported steel items: 	Imported flat-rolled stainless steel products will attract a higher basic customs duty from 5 percent to 7.5 percent.
Radio cab service: 	FM has propsed a
service tax	 on the service provided by radio-taxis to
place	 them on par with rent-a-cab service.
The proposals on the indirect taxes side are estimated to yield Rs 7,525 crore
