Narendra Modi's first budget a victim of his own success - Hindustan Times
The new government has delivered its first budget studded with tax breaks, bold structural reforms and tighter spending. In an ideal world that would be hailed as a dream budget, considering the current weakness in the national economy.
PM Narendra Modi during the presentation of the union budget in Lok Sabha. (PTI photo)
Yet, so high are the expectations from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the budget has failed to generate the kind of euphoria usually associated with anything bearing his stamp. The budget, thus, appears to have become a victim of Modi's own success.
While investors had hoped Modi would use his strong election mandate to unleash a raft of reforms comparable to the opening up of the economy in 1991, many voters expected him to work a miracle to curb prices, create millions of new jobs and improve people's lifestyles.
Given the mountain of expectations, finance minister Arun Jaitley's job was never going to be easy.
Read: Words, just words: why budget is a missed opportunity
Read: FM Jaitley promises higher growth
In what is clearly a 'thank you voter' budget, the government raised tax income exemption limits, cut prices of middle class aspirations goods such as LCD/LED television sets and branded clothes, eased norms to boost housing as well as raised tax incentives on home loans.
Still, it was no mindless revenue-eroding populism.
Jaitley presented a budget to parliament on Thursday that not only vowed financial probity by restricting the fiscal deficit to 4.1% of gross domestic product in 2014-15, but also virtually keeping spending unchanged if one takes inflation into consideration.
In a signature initiative, which has been awaiting parliamentary nod for more than a decade, the government said it will also lift limits on foreign investment in defence and insurance to 49% from 26%.
Read: Cong leads opposition fire, dubs budget as 'anti-poor
Consider the long term benefits of the above measures: Lower deficits will lead to a reduction in inflation. Indigenous production of defence equipment will save precious foreign exchange, which in the long run should trigger a fall in the current account deficit.
In turn, balanced accounting books should stabilise the rupee and help in any future move towards full convertibility of the currency.
Some of Jaitley's far-reaching announcements were related to taxation, including a move towards a common Goods and Services Tax and a high level committee to review retrospective tax claims as well as a promise not to destabilise the tax regime with retrospective demands as far as possible.
To restart the investment cycle that can create the millions of jobs India needs, the government has eased foreign investment rules and offered investment allowance at the rate of 15% to the manufacturing sector that puts in more than Rs. 25 crore in any year in new plant and machinery.
Read: Jaitley's maiden budget aims for higher economic growth, provides tax breather
The government will also seek to raise a record $13 billion from selling state assets - nearly four times what the previous government raised in the fiscal year ended in March 2014. The government has also stated it will better target food and fuel subsidies.
In its far-reaching implications, Jaitley's proposals have the potential to be a game changer for India's economy.
It's a pity the new government's budget has fallen short of the most bullish expectations.
(Views expressed by the author are personal)

A Budget of fiscal prudence | Business Line
July 11, 2014:
Managing Partner, Khaitan & Co.
The `Achche Din' Budget aims for `sab ka saath, sab ka vikaas'" and draws its inspiration from the pragmatic words of Arun Jaitley, the new Finance Minister, `We cannot spend more than our means'.
The Budget provides excellent directional mandates, but lacks the highly anticipated `bold moves'. However, it is a concise, (mostly) sensible budget - with special emphasis to investment, infrastructure, agriculture, technology and education.
Foreign direct investment ceilings in defence and insurance have been raised to 49 per cent. The controversial retrospective tax law of 2012, contrary to expectations, has not been scrapped; but a scrutiny mechanism by a high level committee of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has been provided for.
There are no changes in income tax rates, and exemption limits have been raised. Goods and Services Tax and tax/duty rationalisation measures look promising. Infrastructure investment trusts and real estate investment trusts have been highlighted, along with growth of the manufacturing sector, priority resolution of mining issues (including amendment of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Bill), power sector reform and development, clean energy, amendment of transfer pricing regulations, development of industrial and economic corridors, smart cities and industrial clusters, and financial inclusion of unorganised and unbanked segments.
Keeping up the commitment of `minimum government, maximum governance', unified KYC, PF and demat accounts and online authorisations have been announced. Plans for Digital India for increased transparency, and incentives for e-businesses and start-ups have also been announced.
The Budget may not be dramatic, but a gold thread of progress runs consistently through it. There are areas of concern, of course. Primarily, the silence on the new Companies Act is conspicuous, and even if the retrospective tax law is not repealed, a clarification or roadmap for the future would have been appreciated. Simply leaving it to CBDT is not good enough.
However, 'Modinomics' has worked well for Gujarat in the past. Will it be able to achieve the ambitious targets of 7-8 per cent growth and 3 per cent fiscal deficit? It is too early to make predictions, for even the most eloquent budget has no significance if not implemented appropriately. We can only wait and watch.
(This article was published on July 11, 2014)
X	These are links to The Hindu Business Line suggested by Outbrain, which may or may not be relevant to the other content on this page. You can read Outbrain's privacy and cookie policy
here.
X	These are paid-for links provided by Outbrain, and may or may not be relevant to the other content on this page. To find out more information about driving traffic to your content or to place this widget on your site, visit outbrain.com. You can read Outbrain's privacy and cookie policy
here.
