Narendra Modi's first budget a victim of his own success - Hindustan Times
The new government has delivered its first budget studded with tax breaks, bold structural reforms and tighter spending. In an ideal world that would be hailed as a dream budget, considering the current weakness in the national economy.
PM Narendra Modi during the presentation of the union budget in Lok Sabha. (PTI photo)
Yet, so high are the expectations from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the budget has failed to generate the kind of euphoria usually associated with anything bearing his stamp. The budget, thus, appears to have become a victim of Modi's own success.
While investors had hoped Modi would use his strong election mandate to unleash a raft of reforms comparable to the opening up of the economy in 1991, many voters expected him to work a miracle to curb prices, create millions of new jobs and improve people's lifestyles.
Given the mountain of expectations, finance minister Arun Jaitley's job was never going to be easy.
Read: Words, just words: why budget is a missed opportunity
Read: FM Jaitley promises higher growth
In what is clearly a 'thank you voter' budget, the government raised tax income exemption limits, cut prices of middle class aspirations goods such as LCD/LED television sets and branded clothes, eased norms to boost housing as well as raised tax incentives on home loans.
Still, it was no mindless revenue-eroding populism.
Jaitley presented a budget to parliament on Thursday that not only vowed financial probity by restricting the fiscal deficit to 4.1% of gross domestic product in 2014-15, but also virtually keeping spending unchanged if one takes inflation into consideration.
In a signature initiative, which has been awaiting parliamentary nod for more than a decade, the government said it will also lift limits on foreign investment in defence and insurance to 49% from 26%.
Read: Cong leads opposition fire, dubs budget as 'anti-poor
Consider the long term benefits of the above measures: Lower deficits will lead to a reduction in inflation. Indigenous production of defence equipment will save precious foreign exchange, which in the long run should trigger a fall in the current account deficit.
In turn, balanced accounting books should stabilise the rupee and help in any future move towards full convertibility of the currency.
Some of Jaitley's far-reaching announcements were related to taxation, including a move towards a common Goods and Services Tax and a high level committee to review retrospective tax claims as well as a promise not to destabilise the tax regime with retrospective demands as far as possible.
To restart the investment cycle that can create the millions of jobs India needs, the government has eased foreign investment rules and offered investment allowance at the rate of 15% to the manufacturing sector that puts in more than Rs. 25 crore in any year in new plant and machinery.
Read: Jaitley's maiden budget aims for higher economic growth, provides tax breather
The government will also seek to raise a record $13 billion from selling state assets - nearly four times what the previous government raised in the fiscal year ended in March 2014. The government has also stated it will better target food and fuel subsidies.
In its far-reaching implications, Jaitley's proposals have the potential to be a game changer for India's economy.
It's a pity the new government's budget has fallen short of the most bullish expectations.
(Views expressed by the author are personal)

Union Budget 2014-15: How it will affect you?
Last Updated: Thursday, July 10, 2014, 15:57
Reema Sharma/Ajeet Kumar
The hullabaloo about the much-awaited Union Budget 2014-15 is over! Though the FM tried to give relief to the individual taxpayers in what his party described a ''growth-oriented budget'', he however stopped short of addressing the concerns regarding other sectors, which were eagerly expecting some relief.
"I propose not to make any changes in the tax rate. However, with the view to provide relief to small and marginal and senior citizen, I propose to increase the personal income tax exemption limit by Rs 50,000 from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 2.50 lakh in case of all individual tax payer who are below the ago of 60 years," the FM said while presenting budget for 2014-15 in Parliament.
The following is the list of most important announcements made by the Finance Minister.
Salaried Class
Raising Income tax exemption limit
Though the slab of tax free income has not moved up in line with real inflation, FM's announcement on taxation has brought some sort of relief to the individual tax payers as it will increase the purchasing power of individuals and stimulate demand.
The General Budget 2014-15 presented by the Union Finance Minister has raised the personal income-tax exemption limit by Rs 50,000/- that is, from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh in the case of individual taxpayers, below the age of 60 years.
Exemption limit raised from Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh in the case of senior citizens. However there is no change in the rate of surcharge either for the corporates or the individuals, HUFs, firms etc.
The only dampener here is that the FM has nothing for women taxpayers in his kitty.
Raising tax exemption under 80C
Investment limit under Section 80C of the Income-Tax Act has also been raised from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh which will encourage savings to some extent.
Public Provident Fund (PPF)
In further relief to the depositors, the Finance Minister has raised Public Provident Fund (PPF) deposit limit to Rs 1.5 lakh per annum. This was earlier pegged at Rs 1 lakh.
Hiking the cap on interest on home loan
The realty sector, which has been under pressure for quite some time, has now been given a breather by the Finance Minister. To incentivise investments into the sector, the deduction limit on account of interest on loan in respect of self occupied house property has been raised from Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2 lakh.
Small entrepreneurs
To encourage small entrepreneurs, an Investment allowance at the rate of 15 percent to a manufacturing company that invests more than Rs 25 crore in any year in new plant and machinery has been announced.
The benefit will be available for three years i.e. for investments upto 31.03.2017. Investment allowance to manufacturing company investing more than Rs.100 crore announced last year will continue till 31.03.2015.
Women and senior citizens
It was widely expected that Arun Jaitley will give more relief to women tax payers. On the contrary, the Finance Minister's budget announcement had nothing specific for women. Earlier, women earning upto Rs 2 lakhs were exempted from paying tax. There was widespread expectation that the limit would be hiked by a minimum of Rs 50,000 over and above the general category exemption limit. The individual tax exemption limit of Rs 2.5 lakh has no gender segregation.
However, senior citizens will have a sigh of relief. As of now, senior citizens earning upto Rs 2,50,000 did not come under the tax bracket. Income tax exemption limit for senior citizen has now been raised to Rs 3 lakh.
Housewives
Another very important section that was eagerly expecting some sops from the Finance Minister was housewives. Arun Jaitley's major announcements on dearer and cheaper is bound to have a direct impact on the Indian housewives that have been toiling to their kitchen budget in control.
For long, housewives have been economising on their kitchen expenses, owing to exorbitant prices of essential items, but the NDA government's announcement on packaged/processed food products and edible oil will surely give some respite to them.
First Published: Thursday, July 10, 2014, 15:48
