Narendra Modi's first budget a victim of his own success - Hindustan Times
The new government has delivered its first budget studded with tax breaks, bold structural reforms and tighter spending. In an ideal world that would be hailed as a dream budget, considering the current weakness in the national economy.
PM Narendra Modi during the presentation of the union budget in Lok Sabha. (PTI photo)
Yet, so high are the expectations from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the budget has failed to generate the kind of euphoria usually associated with anything bearing his stamp. The budget, thus, appears to have become a victim of Modi's own success.
While investors had hoped Modi would use his strong election mandate to unleash a raft of reforms comparable to the opening up of the economy in 1991, many voters expected him to work a miracle to curb prices, create millions of new jobs and improve people's lifestyles.
Given the mountain of expectations, finance minister Arun Jaitley's job was never going to be easy.
Read: Words, just words: why budget is a missed opportunity
Read: FM Jaitley promises higher growth
In what is clearly a 'thank you voter' budget, the government raised tax income exemption limits, cut prices of middle class aspirations goods such as LCD/LED television sets and branded clothes, eased norms to boost housing as well as raised tax incentives on home loans.
Still, it was no mindless revenue-eroding populism.
Jaitley presented a budget to parliament on Thursday that not only vowed financial probity by restricting the fiscal deficit to 4.1% of gross domestic product in 2014-15, but also virtually keeping spending unchanged if one takes inflation into consideration.
In a signature initiative, which has been awaiting parliamentary nod for more than a decade, the government said it will also lift limits on foreign investment in defence and insurance to 49% from 26%.
Read: Cong leads opposition fire, dubs budget as 'anti-poor
Consider the long term benefits of the above measures: Lower deficits will lead to a reduction in inflation. Indigenous production of defence equipment will save precious foreign exchange, which in the long run should trigger a fall in the current account deficit.
In turn, balanced accounting books should stabilise the rupee and help in any future move towards full convertibility of the currency.
Some of Jaitley's far-reaching announcements were related to taxation, including a move towards a common Goods and Services Tax and a high level committee to review retrospective tax claims as well as a promise not to destabilise the tax regime with retrospective demands as far as possible.
To restart the investment cycle that can create the millions of jobs India needs, the government has eased foreign investment rules and offered investment allowance at the rate of 15% to the manufacturing sector that puts in more than Rs. 25 crore in any year in new plant and machinery.
Read: Jaitley's maiden budget aims for higher economic growth, provides tax breather
The government will also seek to raise a record $13 billion from selling state assets - nearly four times what the previous government raised in the fiscal year ended in March 2014. The government has also stated it will better target food and fuel subsidies.
In its far-reaching implications, Jaitley's proposals have the potential to be a game changer for India's economy.
It's a pity the new government's budget has fallen short of the most bullish expectations.
(Views expressed by the author are personal)

Finance Minister Arun Jaitley's budget tries to address 4.1 per cent fiscal deficit
Mail Today Bureau New Delhi, July 11, 2014 | UPDATED 10:12 IST
Finance Minister
Arun Jaitley	 on Thursday stuck to the stiff fiscal deficit target of 4.1 per cent of GDP fixed by his predecessor P. Chidambaram in the interim budget, but admitted that achieving it would be a challenge.
"My predecessor has set a very difficult task of reducing the fiscal deficit to 4.1 per cent of GDP in the current year. Considering that we have two years of low GDP growth, an almost static industrial growth, a moderate increase in indirect taxes, a large subsidy burden and not so encouraging tax buoyancy, the target of 4.1 per cent is indeed daunting," Jaitley told the Lok Sabha while presenting the Budget. Chalking out a tough road map for fiscal consolidation, Jaitley said the fiscal deficit would be reduced further to 3.6 per cent in 2015-16 and 3 per cent in 2016-17.
A low fiscal deficit means the government would borrow less from the market and keep its expenditure within the limits of the revenue it earns mainly from direct and indirect taxes. A lower fiscal deficit also reflects stronger macroeconomic fundamentals and helps in keeping inflation in check.
Jaitley has a tough task ahead as fiscal deficit in the first two months of 2014-15 has already touched a staggering Rs 2.4 lakh crore, constituting as much as 45.6 per cent of Chidambaram's estimate of the entire financial year. The Budget also hopes for a sharp increase in tax collections which may not materialise in an economy that has slowed down.
The Budget raises defence expenditure by 12.5 per cent to Rs 2.29 lakh crore. Non-plan expenditure for the current year has been estimated at Rs 12.19 lakh crore with additional amounts for fertiliser subsidy and capital expenditure for the armed forces.
The total estimated expenditure stands at Rs 17.94 lakh crore. Gross tax receipts will be Rs 13.64 lakh crore, of which the Centre's share will be Rs 9.77 lakh crore.
Non-tax revenues for the current financial year will be Rs 2.12 lakh crore and capital receipts other than borrowings will be Rs 73,952 crore.
Jaitley said he began working with constraints based on the targets set by his predecessor. "In 45 days, this is the best I could do," he said.
Jaitley has managed to find some fiscal space in the Budget to fund projects to upgrade India's food distribution infrastructure. He raised subsidies on fertilisers and, against expectations of a cut, extended diesel subsidies.
Diesel is a politically sensitive fuel used in the agriculture sector and its consumption is expected to go up further as farmers would be forced to use water pumps to irrigate their fields due to poor monsoons this year.
The finance minister has been forced to raise the subsidy bill by 2.47 per cent to over Rs 2.51 lakh crore for 2014-15.
For food subsidy, the government has allocated Rs 1.15 lakh crore, which include a provision of Rs 88,500 crore for implementation of the National Food Security Act. The food subsidy bill has been kept unchanged from the interim budget proposal of Rs 1.15 lakh crore. The previous government had increased the bill by a whopping Rs 23,000 crore mainly for the implementation of the National Food Security law, whose deadline has been now been extended by three months till September 2014.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday
For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. taaj'aatriin kh'broN aur viiddiyo ke lie aajtk.in pr aaeN.
