Narendra Modi's first budget a victim of his own success - Hindustan Times
The new government has delivered its first budget studded with tax breaks, bold structural reforms and tighter spending. In an ideal world that would be hailed as a dream budget, considering the current weakness in the national economy.
PM Narendra Modi during the presentation of the union budget in Lok Sabha. (PTI photo)
Yet, so high are the expectations from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the budget has failed to generate the kind of euphoria usually associated with anything bearing his stamp. The budget, thus, appears to have become a victim of Modi's own success.
While investors had hoped Modi would use his strong election mandate to unleash a raft of reforms comparable to the opening up of the economy in 1991, many voters expected him to work a miracle to curb prices, create millions of new jobs and improve people's lifestyles.
Given the mountain of expectations, finance minister Arun Jaitley's job was never going to be easy.
Read: Words, just words: why budget is a missed opportunity
Read: FM Jaitley promises higher growth
In what is clearly a 'thank you voter' budget, the government raised tax income exemption limits, cut prices of middle class aspirations goods such as LCD/LED television sets and branded clothes, eased norms to boost housing as well as raised tax incentives on home loans.
Still, it was no mindless revenue-eroding populism.
Jaitley presented a budget to parliament on Thursday that not only vowed financial probity by restricting the fiscal deficit to 4.1% of gross domestic product in 2014-15, but also virtually keeping spending unchanged if one takes inflation into consideration.
In a signature initiative, which has been awaiting parliamentary nod for more than a decade, the government said it will also lift limits on foreign investment in defence and insurance to 49% from 26%.
Read: Cong leads opposition fire, dubs budget as 'anti-poor
Consider the long term benefits of the above measures: Lower deficits will lead to a reduction in inflation. Indigenous production of defence equipment will save precious foreign exchange, which in the long run should trigger a fall in the current account deficit.
In turn, balanced accounting books should stabilise the rupee and help in any future move towards full convertibility of the currency.
Some of Jaitley's far-reaching announcements were related to taxation, including a move towards a common Goods and Services Tax and a high level committee to review retrospective tax claims as well as a promise not to destabilise the tax regime with retrospective demands as far as possible.
To restart the investment cycle that can create the millions of jobs India needs, the government has eased foreign investment rules and offered investment allowance at the rate of 15% to the manufacturing sector that puts in more than Rs. 25 crore in any year in new plant and machinery.
Read: Jaitley's maiden budget aims for higher economic growth, provides tax breather
The government will also seek to raise a record $13 billion from selling state assets - nearly four times what the previous government raised in the fiscal year ended in March 2014. The government has also stated it will better target food and fuel subsidies.
In its far-reaching implications, Jaitley's proposals have the potential to be a game changer for India's economy.
It's a pity the new government's budget has fallen short of the most bullish expectations.
(Views expressed by the author are personal)

Why Arun Jaitley's budget is a story of missed opportunities - Firstpost
There is an apocryphal story about high profile lawyer politicians that often does the rounds. That when one set gets into the government they had over their cases to the ones in the opposition and when the latter come into government, their cases go to those who have taken their place.
Finance minister Arun Jaitley's maiden budget speech sounded very much like something P Chidambaram handed over to him, barring some changes in numbers and some high-sounding ideas.
When weeks ahead of the budget, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the nation that people will have to brace for tough measures, it was widely seen as a signal of a directional shift in economic management and a junking of the populism that marked the UPA budgets. The very sensible railway budget - and the hiking of rail fares ahead of that - also raised hopes that the budget would shun a please-all approach.
As Jaitley started his two-hour long speech, it appeared that these hopes would be fulfilled. He asked, "Should we allow this drift to carry on and watch helplessly? Should we allow our future to suffer because of our indecisiveness? Should we be victims of mere populism or wasteful expenditure?"
But this was not answered with a categorical no. Nor did the rest of the speech give a sense that this is the approach that the government would follow. This budget is a missed opportunity.
There were two big expectations of this budget - a major attempt at expenditure reform and a signal of a shift to a more open economy. Jaitley hasn't gone the whole hog in fulfilling these.
A major overhaul of the subsidy regime was needed. But merely saying that the government proposes to "overhaul the subsidy regime, including food and petroleum subsidies, and make it more targeted while providing full protection to the marginalized, poor and SC/STs" doesn't mean anything. Every finance minister since Yashwant Sinha way back in 1990 has been saying this, but nobody has done anything about it. It is a tame statement, not expected from what is widely touted as a decisive government.
The subsidy bill is slated to grow only 2 percent, mainly because of a higher fertiliser subsidy bill. Jaitley has kept the food and petroleum subsidies at the same level as the interim budget presented by Chidambaram did in the interim budget. But no public finance expert believes that figure of Rs 1,15,000 crore to be realistic. The Food Security Act has not rolled out and that is expected to push up the cost of food subsidy greatly.
Announcing the setting up of an Expenditure Management Commission also does not mean much. An Expenditure Reforms Commission headed by former finance secretary KP Geethakrishnan gave its report to the previous NDA government; nothing came of it.
Jaitley plans to stick to Chidambaram's fiscal deficit target of 4.1 percent. How? Can tax revenues grow 16 percent in a 5.4-5.9 percent growth scenario, despite the many industry-friendly features in the budget? A lot of reliance seems to have been placed on disinvestment, which is expected to bring in Rs 63,425 crore. But Jaitley has said nothing about an aggressive disinvestment programme in his budget speech, except for the sale of public sector bank shares to the retail investor. Can such a huge figure be achieved without strategic sales?
Yes, the budget had several positives - the massive push on the infrastructure front, good initiatives on agriculture (again focussing on infrastructure), trying to give a fillip to the savings rate by a combination of income tax relief and a push to small savings.
But it did not signal a directional shift in economic management that the country sorely needs. There were no announcements on a roadmap for subsidy reform (something that is sorely needed), on disinvestment and privatisation, on signalling a change in the way the food economy is managed. Sure some of these are off-budget items. But Jaitley could have signalled that these reforms were coming. He did not. This budget is also the story of missed opportunities.
Seetha is a senior journalist and author
