Narendra Modi's first budget a victim of his own success - Hindustan Times
The new government has delivered its first budget studded with tax breaks, bold structural reforms and tighter spending. In an ideal world that would be hailed as a dream budget, considering the current weakness in the national economy.
PM Narendra Modi during the presentation of the union budget in Lok Sabha. (PTI photo)
Yet, so high are the expectations from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the budget has failed to generate the kind of euphoria usually associated with anything bearing his stamp. The budget, thus, appears to have become a victim of Modi's own success.
While investors had hoped Modi would use his strong election mandate to unleash a raft of reforms comparable to the opening up of the economy in 1991, many voters expected him to work a miracle to curb prices, create millions of new jobs and improve people's lifestyles.
Given the mountain of expectations, finance minister Arun Jaitley's job was never going to be easy.
Read: Words, just words: why budget is a missed opportunity
Read: FM Jaitley promises higher growth
In what is clearly a 'thank you voter' budget, the government raised tax income exemption limits, cut prices of middle class aspirations goods such as LCD/LED television sets and branded clothes, eased norms to boost housing as well as raised tax incentives on home loans.
Still, it was no mindless revenue-eroding populism.
Jaitley presented a budget to parliament on Thursday that not only vowed financial probity by restricting the fiscal deficit to 4.1% of gross domestic product in 2014-15, but also virtually keeping spending unchanged if one takes inflation into consideration.
In a signature initiative, which has been awaiting parliamentary nod for more than a decade, the government said it will also lift limits on foreign investment in defence and insurance to 49% from 26%.
Read: Cong leads opposition fire, dubs budget as 'anti-poor
Consider the long term benefits of the above measures: Lower deficits will lead to a reduction in inflation. Indigenous production of defence equipment will save precious foreign exchange, which in the long run should trigger a fall in the current account deficit.
In turn, balanced accounting books should stabilise the rupee and help in any future move towards full convertibility of the currency.
Some of Jaitley's far-reaching announcements were related to taxation, including a move towards a common Goods and Services Tax and a high level committee to review retrospective tax claims as well as a promise not to destabilise the tax regime with retrospective demands as far as possible.
To restart the investment cycle that can create the millions of jobs India needs, the government has eased foreign investment rules and offered investment allowance at the rate of 15% to the manufacturing sector that puts in more than Rs. 25 crore in any year in new plant and machinery.
Read: Jaitley's maiden budget aims for higher economic growth, provides tax breather
The government will also seek to raise a record $13 billion from selling state assets - nearly four times what the previous government raised in the fiscal year ended in March 2014. The government has also stated it will better target food and fuel subsidies.
In its far-reaching implications, Jaitley's proposals have the potential to be a game changer for India's economy.
It's a pity the new government's budget has fallen short of the most bullish expectations.
(Views expressed by the author are personal)

Budget 2014 can't make everyone happy | Latest News & Updates at Daily News & Analysis
Expectations were high from the current government as the finance minister tabled the Union budget. Pune's Raut family members were pretty disappointed last year with what the budget held in store for them. This year, dna revisits the family residing in Hadapsar along with chartered accountant Rishabh Parakh to understand how Jaitley's budget will affect them
From Left to right- Dadasaheb Raut, Rahul Raut, Alka Raut, Chanchal Raut, Rajendra Raut, CA Rishabh Parakh,
Dadasaheb Raut, Grandfather (Retired)
I appreciate the fact that the new government has hiked the excise duty on cigarettes making them costlier, as cancer is claiming a lot of lives. However, I don't see the logic behind announcements like reducing prices of colour TV below 19 inches as most middle class families would go for something bigger these days. If I think selfishly, I am happy that the tax exemption has been increased from Rs2.5 lakh to Rs3 lakh in the case of senior citizens.
Alka Raut, Grandmother (Housewife)
I don't see any major immediate relief to the kitchen budget. I am glad that people with a dream of having their own house will be happy as the housing sector has been given priority and incentive in the budget, as I know how difficult it is to own a home.
Rajendra Raut, Husband (IT Professional)
As per their pre-election promises, I had expected that the tax exemption for salaried professionals would be raised to Rs3lakh, which has been raised to Rs2.5lakh. I wouldn't dismiss it outright as falling short of expectations but I would say government is taking measured risks. I also appreciate the fact that they increased the exemption from interest on housing loans because we were planning to invest in a second home for tax saving and investment purpose and it means more savings for me.
Rahul Raut, Son (Student)
I was expecting some sort of relief on the entertainment tax front. The movie rates are sky high as we have to pay about Rs300-400 for a single movie in a multiplex these days. Along with the number of multiplexes/ movie theatres, the rates are also increasing everyday which disastrous for a generation that survives on pocket-money.
Chanchal Raut, Wife (Real estate broker)
I am disappointed as I didn't get great exemption in income tax as a working woman. However, I am happy for three things. First, that there will be more IIT's and IIM's created, Pune included, which means better standards of education. I'ts good news for my children. Secondly, the budget is women friendly, especially women's safety. Third and most important, I am happy about the announcement of developing 100 Smart Cities as this would help in reducing migration to cities like Pune. When migrantsreduce, locals will have more opportunities.
CA Rishabh Parakh, Director, Money Plant Consulting
I believe it is very relative to compare this budget in terms of 'Acche Din' because we the common men and women have been at the receiving end, especially in terms of rising inflation and no respite from tax burdens, as the previous government has hardly done anything. Whenever the choice is between bad and worse, bad is always good. Overall, the budget has provided reliefs on the much needed tax side in terms of hike in Tax Slabs/Home Loan Interest and 80C Investment limit.
Tips by Rishabh Parak, to leverage this budget for a better financial use:
1. Save when there's hike in interest on home loan. Basic exemption limit should be utilized to invest for increased 80C limit of Rs. 50000/-.
2. Invest monthly, about Rs. 4000/- per month in PPF to optimize the benefit of higher deposit limit i.e. Rs1,50,000 overall and get assured return.
3. Take a joint home loan to optimize the benefits of higher interest on home loan and get benefits of atleast Rs4 lakhs deduction.
4. Utilize the amount of Tuition Fees of your kids as it comes under 80C with an increased benefit of additional Rs50,000/-.
5. If you are young or in your thirties, invest the additional amount of Rs50000 under 80C in Mutual Funds ELSS to leverage equity market and savings both.
6. If you are in fifties and looking for tax savings and safety of investments, then go for PPF to get dual benefits, tax advantage & safety both.
7. Work on your 80C Tax Planning investment looking at your overall Financial Planning.
8. Invest savings coming out of reduced outflow on branded cloths and home appliances.
