Budget 2014: Finance Minister Arun Jaitley pescribes 'health for all'
Neetu Chandra Sharma	 |
Mail Today	 | New Delhi, July 11, 2014 | UPDATED 10:27 IST
Finance Minister Arun Jaitley has attempted to curb the use of tobacco while boosting medical infrastructure and research in the Budget for 2014-15. Besides the announcement of setting up of several new medical facilities including four AIIMS-like institutions, several other measures proposed by Jaitley will directly impact the healthcare sector.
Considering suggestions made by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Jaitley increased excise duty by 72 per cent on cigarettes of length not exceeding 65 mm in length and by 11 per cent to 21 per cent for cigarettes of other lengths. A similar increase was proposed on cigars, cheroots and cigarillos. Likewise, excise duty on pan masala was increased to 16 per cent from 12 per cent, unmanufactured tobacco to 55 per cent from 50 per cent, and gutkha and chewing tobacco to 70 per cent from 60 per cent.
"These are healthy measures and I hope everyone would welcome them from the point of view of human and fiscal health," Jaitley said. He said that in order to move towards "Health for All", two key initiatives - Free Drug Service and Free Diagnosis Service - would be taken up on priority.
For ensuring universal access to early quality diagnosis and treatment of TB patients, two National Institutes of Ageing will be set up at AIIMS in New Delhi and Madras Medical College in Chennai. A nationallevel research and referral institute for higher dental studies will also be set up in an existing dental institution.
"All the six new AIIMS at Jodhpur, Bhopal, Patna, Rishikesh, Bhubaneswar and Raipur, which are part of the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana, have become functional. A plan to set up four more AIIMS-like institutions at Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Vidarbha in Maharashtra and Purvanchal in Uttar Pradesh is under consideration. I propose to set aside a sum of Rs 500 crore for this," Jaitley said.
Interestingly, for the first time, the central government will provide assistance to strengthen the drug and food regulatory systems in states by creating new drug testing laboratories and strengthening 31 existing laboratories.
"In keeping with the government's focus on improving affordable healthcare and to augment the transfer of technology for better healthcare facilities in rural India, 15 Model Rural Health Research (centres) shall be set up in the states, which shall take up research on local health issues concerning rural population," Jaitley said.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday
For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. taaj'aatriin kh'broN aur viiddiyo ke lie aajtk.in pr aaeN.
