Finance Minister Arun Jaitley's budget tries to address 4.1 per cent fiscal deficit
Mail Today Bureau New Delhi, July 11, 2014 | UPDATED 10:12 IST
Finance Minister
Arun Jaitley	 on Thursday stuck to the stiff fiscal deficit target of 4.1 per cent of GDP fixed by his predecessor P. Chidambaram in the interim budget, but admitted that achieving it would be a challenge.
"My predecessor has set a very difficult task of reducing the fiscal deficit to 4.1 per cent of GDP in the current year. Considering that we have two years of low GDP growth, an almost static industrial growth, a moderate increase in indirect taxes, a large subsidy burden and not so encouraging tax buoyancy, the target of 4.1 per cent is indeed daunting," Jaitley told the Lok Sabha while presenting the Budget. Chalking out a tough road map for fiscal consolidation, Jaitley said the fiscal deficit would be reduced further to 3.6 per cent in 2015-16 and 3 per cent in 2016-17.
A low fiscal deficit means the government would borrow less from the market and keep its expenditure within the limits of the revenue it earns mainly from direct and indirect taxes. A lower fiscal deficit also reflects stronger macroeconomic fundamentals and helps in keeping inflation in check.
Jaitley has a tough task ahead as fiscal deficit in the first two months of 2014-15 has already touched a staggering Rs 2.4 lakh crore, constituting as much as 45.6 per cent of Chidambaram's estimate of the entire financial year. The Budget also hopes for a sharp increase in tax collections which may not materialise in an economy that has slowed down.
The Budget raises defence expenditure by 12.5 per cent to Rs 2.29 lakh crore. Non-plan expenditure for the current year has been estimated at Rs 12.19 lakh crore with additional amounts for fertiliser subsidy and capital expenditure for the armed forces.
The total estimated expenditure stands at Rs 17.94 lakh crore. Gross tax receipts will be Rs 13.64 lakh crore, of which the Centre's share will be Rs 9.77 lakh crore.
Non-tax revenues for the current financial year will be Rs 2.12 lakh crore and capital receipts other than borrowings will be Rs 73,952 crore.
Jaitley said he began working with constraints based on the targets set by his predecessor. "In 45 days, this is the best I could do," he said.
Jaitley has managed to find some fiscal space in the Budget to fund projects to upgrade India's food distribution infrastructure. He raised subsidies on fertilisers and, against expectations of a cut, extended diesel subsidies.
Diesel is a politically sensitive fuel used in the agriculture sector and its consumption is expected to go up further as farmers would be forced to use water pumps to irrigate their fields due to poor monsoons this year.
The finance minister has been forced to raise the subsidy bill by 2.47 per cent to over Rs 2.51 lakh crore for 2014-15.
For food subsidy, the government has allocated Rs 1.15 lakh crore, which include a provision of Rs 88,500 crore for implementation of the National Food Security Act. The food subsidy bill has been kept unchanged from the interim budget proposal of Rs 1.15 lakh crore. The previous government had increased the bill by a whopping Rs 23,000 crore mainly for the implementation of the National Food Security law, whose deadline has been now been extended by three months till September 2014.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday
For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. taaj'aatriin kh'broN aur viiddiyo ke lie aajtk.in pr aaeN.
