Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

Mistakes to blame for poor showing, says Woods | Bangkok Post: news
HOYLAKE (UNITED KINGDOM) - Tiger Woods rued his mistakes on Saturday after another uncharacteristic third round score left him out of the running at the British Open, 19 shots behind runaway leader Rory McIlroy.
US golfer Tiger Woods watches his shot from the 9th tee during his third round 73, on day three of the British Open Golf Championship at Royal Liverpool Golf Course in Hoylake, on July 19, 2014
The American icon came to Royal Liverpool Golf Club with ambitions of winning for the second time on the par-72 layout and taking his haul of majors to 15, three shy of record held by Jack Nicklaus.
However, a fine opening round of three under 69 that put the 38-year-old in contention, was wasted on Friday when a 77 meant that he barely made the cut, with a last gasp birdie, just to stay in the tournament.
That was followed by a round of 73, that extinguished his hopes on Saturday, and left the Florida native scratching his head as to why his putting touch had deserted him.
"I made a lot of mistakes, I've made two doubles (bogeys) and two triples but on top of that I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies and consequently I'm three over.
Many onlookers doubted Woods' chances coming into a tournament he won in style at Hoylake in 2006, the 12th of his 14 majors, but he has not won a major since the 2008 US Open.
Recent back surgery left him with only two competitive rounds of golf at the Congressional earlier this year, where he missed the cut, although he remained happy to be back playing at the highest level.
"I'm starting to get the flow of the round, the flow of playing again but I've just made too many mistakes," said Woods.
"You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are three-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.
Woods played his round with a black ribbon attached to his hat in tribute to renowned golf coach Bob Torrance, the father of Sam, who passed away on Friday at the age of 82.
"I've known him a lot over the years, even from my amateur days when I came over here. He's been fantastic to me and we had a lot of great conversations about golf.
"It was always fun picking his brain about the game, how it's evolved and how he believes it should be played. I'm going to miss him very much".
