Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

The 2 Secret Words for McIlroy: Process and Spot - ABC News
Rory McIlroy looked out at a room packed with reporters and knew he was going to disappoint them.
All week, he had talked about two secret words he used as his trigger for the shots he played. Even as he stretched his lead to six shots going into Sunday, he said he would only reveal them if he were to win the British Open.
In the hours before he teed off, the media put one pound ($1.70) in a pot and tried to guess the two words.
"Very simple," McIlroy said, the claret jug at his side. "It's going to be a big letdown for everyone. It was 'process' and 'spot.' That was it."
And the meaning?
"With my long shots, I just wanted to stick to my process and stick to making good decisions, making good swings," he said. "The process of making a good swing, if I had any sort of little swing thoughts, just keeping that so I wasn't thinking about the end result, basically."
The "spot" was about his putting.
"I was just picking a spot on the green and trying to roll it over my spot," he said. "I wasn't thinking about holing it. I wasn't thinking about what it would mean or how many further clear it would get me. I just wanted to roll that ball over that spot. If that went in, then great. If it didn't, then I'd try it the next hole."
That led to an even more important question. Since no one guessed the words, what happened to the money?
The plan was to donate it to a charity of McIlroy's choice.
------
RECORD SCORES: McIlroy had a 68 as his target score for the final round, knowing that would mean someone had to set a major championship record (no one has done better than 63) to catch him. He didn't come close, but he didn't need to.
Even so, it was a day for low scoring. Four players tied the scoring record of 65 at Royal Liverpool.
Chris Wood was the first. Shane Lowry of Ireland birdied three of his last four holes to match him. Marc Leishman did the same for a 65. And the last was Jim Furyk, who played in the par 5s in 5-under par on the day.
Dustin Johnson had a 65 on Friday.
Eight years ago at Hoylake, Tiger Woods, Chris DiMarco, Ernie Els and Sergio Garcia each had a 65.
------
MICKELSON'S MOVE: Phil Mickelson had another good Sunday in the British Open, this time a 68 that at least ended on a positive note and allowed him to pick up some Ryder Cup points. Mickelson was more concerned with his play than the points.
"I don't want to look at it and think about it too much," Mickelson said. "If I play like I did this week at Akron and the PGA, I'll be fine. I'll be on it. But it would be beneficial for both me and Tom (Watson) if I can do it on my own."
Mickelson has two events left -- Firestone and the PGA Championship, worth double points as a major. The only three Americans in the top 10 at Royal Liverpool already were among the top nine in the Ryder Cup standings.
He has qualified for every U.S. team since 1995 at Oak Hill, where he went 3-0 as a rookie.
"It's been 19 years now that I've made it on my own, and I think it's a record of consistency to play that well to make the team on your own without being a pick for almost two decades," he said. "And I'd like to keep that streak going."
Mickelson won't count on being a pick. He's never had to worry about that.
"I don't know if I played well enough this year to deserve a spot," he said. "You want players that are hot, that are playing well. And I need to step and start doing that."
------
