Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

British Open at a glance - Sport - NZ Herald News
A brief look at the third round at the British Open on Saturday:
LEADING: Rory McIlroy shot a 4-under 68 and is at 16-under 200 overall.
TRAILING: Rickie Fowler is six strokes behind, with Sergio Garcia another shot back.
BIG ADVANTAGE: McIlroy has the largest 54-hole edge at the British Open since Tiger Woods also led by six at St. Andrews in 2000.
GOOD ODDS: No player has ever blown a six-shot lead on the final day at golf's oldest major championship.
SHOT OF THE DAY: McIlroy's 5-iron from 239 yards rolled up 10 feet from the cup at No. 18, setting up his second eagle.
WHERE'S TIGER: Nowhere close to the lead. Woods had a double bogey and a triple bogey on the way to a 73 that left him 19 shots behind McIlroy.
DEFENDING CHAMP: Phil Mickelson didn't get the score he needed in prime conditions for going low. He was 15 shots behind after a 71.
TWO TEES: The R&A's unprecedented decision to start early off two tees looked justified when heavy rain pounded Royal Liverpool less than an hour after the round ended.
NOTEWORTHY: With another round in the 60s, McIlroy would tie or beat the major championship record for the lowest score in relation to par Woods' 19-under score at the 2000 British Open.
QUOTEWORTHY: "I've been in this position before, and I've been able to convert, and I've been able to get the job done." McIlroy, on his comfort at holding a big lead as he goes for his third major title.
AP	This story has been automatically published from the Associated Press wire which uses US spellings
