British Open notes: Tiger Woods keeps going in wrong direction | Detroit Free Press | freep.com
HOYLAKE, ENGLAND -- Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didnt get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool on today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
# Related: McIlroy running away with British Open
Made a lot of mistakes, Woods said.
Woods was five-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par five on Saturday at No. 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No. 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added up to a one-over 73.
Ive made two doubles and two triples, Woods said. But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently Im three-over par.
Woods is playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which is good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
But still Ive just made too many mistakes, he said. You cant run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are three-under par or better. I certainly didnt do that.
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
CLARKES REBOUND:
Darren Clarke has only two top 10s in the three years since he won the British Open a runner-up in China, and a tie for eighth in the Australian PGA Championship. He gave himself a chance for another with a five-under 67 on Saturday, matching the best score of the day. Clarke was 11 shots out in a tie for 12th. Today I holed a couple of putts and managed to keep some momentum going, Clarke said.
WITHIN RANGE:
Rory McIlroy could set a few records today. He enters the final round at 16-under 200. He would need a 66 to break the 72-hole record of 267 that Greg Norman set at Royal St. Georges in 1993. Also in range is Woods record for all major championships in relation to par 19 under at St. Andrews in 2000. McIlroy would need a 68 to break that record.
DIVOTS:
Jordan Spieth has now played with Woods five times this year twice at Torrey Pines, twice at Congressional and Saturday. Spieth is 20 shots better than Woods in those five rounds.
McIlroy and Rickie Fowler are the only players to shoot in the 60s all three rounds going into today. Three players have posted all four rounds in the 60s at the Open without winning Ernie Els at Royal Troon in 2004, Jesper Parnevik at Turnberry in 1994, and Els at Royal St. Georges in 1993.
Matteo Manassero didnt register a par until the eighth hole. He opened with two bogeys, followed with four straight birdies and made another bogey at No. 7. Manassero shot 68 and was tied for seventh.
