'Comfort women' gaffe wounds Osaka mayor
 

Six months ago Toru Hashimoto, the young, blunt mayor of Osaka, was threatening to upend Japan's political establishment, the Restoration party he founded in the country's second city rapidly becoming a national force.
 
Today, the man many thought would be a kingmaker after elections last December is fighting for his political life - part of a broader withering of Japanese opposition parties under the rule of Shinzo Abe, prime minister, who has led his own efforts to restore Japan as an economic and diplomatic power. 
 
On Monday, Mr Hashimoto appeared before foreign journalists in Tokyo to explain comments he made about Japan's wartime use of "comfort women" - the tens of thousands of women who worked in brutal conditions in Japanese military brothels, often after having been tricked or coerced into service.
 
Mr Hashimoto caused outrage this month when he appeared to defend the exploitation as a necessary and even justifiable outlet for soldiers in wartime. His statements were criticised by everyone from victims' groups to Mr Abe - a man who has himself questioned the degree of official responsibility Japan bears for the abuse the women suffered. 

Support for Restoration has fallen sharply: in one survey only 3 per cent of respondents said they would vote for the party in elections for the upper house of parliament this summer. It is a humiliating collapse for a party that came within a handful of seats of becoming the largest opposition group in December's lower-house poll.

Some in Japan see Mr Hashimoto's provocations as a deliberate attempt to rekindle enthusiasm for his cause - an attempt that went too far and backfired. A lawyer who first gained public attention as a sharp-tongued television commentator, he has built his career on a rare and often bracing contrarianism and may have overestimated the public's appetite for attacks on what he sees as suffocating political correctness.
 
Masatoshi Honda, an independent political scientist, noted that public support for Restoration was falling even before the comfort women controversy, as Mr Abe and his Liberal Democratic party pursued an aggressive economic growth agenda and co-opted Mr Hashimoto's appeal to national pride by declaring that "Japan is back" on the global stage.
 
"Abe says his ultimate goal is to restore Japan," Mr Honda said. "He is trying to do exactly what [the Restoration party] wanted to do."
 
Other opposition parties are also suffering, with the Democratic party Mr Abe defeated in December in disarray and polling at about 6 per cent. The LDP is the preferred party of about half of voters, and 70 per cent say they approve of the job Mr Abe's administration is doing.
 
Such numbers give Mr Abe hugely favourable odds of winning the upper house, where the LDP is in the minority, and consolidating his power.
 
Mr Hashimoto claimed on Monday that he had never endorsed the wartime brothels but had merely described the thinking of military commanders at the time. He called the use of comfort women, many of whom were recruited in Japanese-ruled Korea, "an inexcusable act that violated the dignity and human rights of the women".
 
The explanation appeared to conflict with Japanese press transcripts of his original remarks, which quote him as saying that, given the stress and danger experienced by soldiers in battle, "anyone can understand that the comfort women system was necessary".
 
Mr Hashimoto further undermined his credibility by saying that US soldiers on Okinawa should use the island's "adult entertainment industry" in order to reduce incidences of sexual assault on local women.
 
He apologised for that remark on Monday but stood by a number of other contentious assertions, including that Japan had been unfairly singled out over the comfort women given that other countries' armies were also guilty of sexual abuses.
 
A 1993 apology that Japan offered to former comfort women should be "clarified", he said, to shield Japan from exaggerated claims of state responsibility for the system, which relied heavily on local middlemen, and suggested the International Court of Justice be asked to settle a dispute with South Korea over compensation.
 
Yun Byung-Se, South Korea's foreign minister, called the latter suggestion "embarrassing and shameful" and called on Japan to engage in direct reparations talks.
 



Japan mayor apologizes to U.S., denies wrong words on "comfort women"


TOKYO, May 27 (Xinhua) -- Japan's Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto on Monday apologized to the United States for improper remarks on suggesting U.S. servicemen to "use of legal adult entertainment", but rejected to retract his wrong words about so-called "comfort women" in wartime.
 
Osaka Mayor Hashimoto made the apology at Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan and said he retracted the remarks he told U.S. commander in Okinawa that "the use of the legally accepted adult entertainment industry in Japan should be considered" so as to reduce offenses made by U.S. servicemen.
 
"I understand that my remark could be construed as an insult to the U.S. forces and to the American people, and therefore was inappropriate. I retract this remark and express an apology," he told the press conference.
 
While apologizing to the United States, the outspoken politician denied his wrong words on wartime sexual slave system, saying it was not his intention at all to say women who were used as sexual slaves during wartime are necessary.
 
The right-wing politician criticized media for "reporting only a portion of each of his remarks" and the media reports were cut off from the whole context.
 
Hashimoto said he stated that the armed forces of nations in the world seemed to have needed women "during the past wars", but his words were wrongly reported by media as "he himself thought it as necessary for armed forces to use women and that he tolerated it."
 
"It is extremely regrettable that only the cut-off parts of my remarks have been reported worldwide and that these reports have resulted in misunderstood meanings of the remarks, which are utterly contrary to what I actually intended," said Hashimoto.
 
Hashimoto, the co-head of Japan Restoration Party, added that it is "not a fair attitude" to blame Japan only as sexual violation in wartime was "not an issue unique" to the former Japanese army, saying the issue existed in the United State, France, Germany and other countries in the World War II.
 
Furthermore, in an effort to whitewash the Japanese government' s involvement and responsibilities on the "comfort women" issue, Hashimoto said the government "is not able to find any specific documented evidence that proves the involvement of the government in abducting and trafficking women" to force them to provide sex to Japanese soldiers.
 
He said the Kono Statement, in which Japan officially acknowledges the fact that the Japanese military forced women from Korean Peninsula and China to be sexual slaves for its aggression army, is "very, very in vague and not clear", adding the ambiguity is the root of the rocky Japan-South Korean relations on the issue.
 
"We found recorded evidence that exist is that some women were transported by private businessmen, but in a military ship... Actually, the majority of the brothel facilities were ran by private businessmen," said Hashimoto.
 
It is also "an undeniable fact that the Japanese military involved in the facilities" as they provided health checks over concerns of spread of sexually transmitted disease, said the Osaka Mayor.
 
According to historians, an estimated 200,000 women were forced to serve as sex slaves for Japanese forces during World War II, and most of them came from countries invaded by Japan at the time.
 
Hashimoto's improper words on the "comfort women" have alienated its party allies and Japanese citizens.
 
Hashimoto's restoration party on May 21 lost support from Your Party, a small opposition party, following the highly controversial and insensitive comments.
 
His words were deemed wholly inappropriate by Your Party, with which Hashimoto's party was in talks on boosting their clout by joining forces in the upper house election pegged for July.
 
"Given differences in values, we have to totally review the relationship," Your Party leader Yoshimi Watanabe told a meeting of party executives.
 
Meanwhile, according to a recent survey taken by the Asahi Shimbun newspaper, 75 percent of respondents said there is "a great deal of" or "some" problem with Hashimoto's remarks, while 20 percent said there is "little" or "no" problem.
 
A meager 7 percent said they would back the Japan Restoration Party in the proportional representation portion of the upper house election if it were held now, down from 10 percent in the popular daily's previous survey in April, marking a sharp drop from 16 percent in January. 


