SABC News.com - Facebook secretly conducts mass experiment on users:Tuesday 1 July 2014
Facebook experiment manipulates emotions on 700 000 unwitting users.(REUTERS)
Social media giant Facebook upset the scientific community and many of its users when it revealed last week it had manipulated the emotional content of over half a million accounts in 2012.
"There's a lot of reasons why social science work gets reviewed. The Facebook study did none of that: they didn't subject it to any review; they didn't give you informed consent; they didn't give you a choice. They put you in an experiment without your permission," explained Dr Art Caplan, the director of the division of medical ethics at NYU-Langone Medical Center in New York.
Earlier in June in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Scientists (PNAS), Facebook published the findings of a psychological study in which they altered the news feeds of users to see either positive or negative posts from their friends and then monitored the subsequent posts to determine the impact.
The study, conducted over a week in January of 2012, included 689,003 Facebook accounts and was done without the users' knowledge of the manipulation.
Facebook claims that users agree to such research when they sign up for their account and click the box under "terms and conditions".
"Legally, they have the right to research in any way that they want on anything you post on Facebook. That's what you agreed to when you clicked the user agreement when you signed up for Facebook. I don't think most people would think that that implied they were up for being researched on in a psychological experiment that they were not informed of," said Sophie Weiner, a writer at AnimalNewYork.com, a science, business, and culture newsite, who investigated the study after it was published and first discovered the manipulation had been done unbeknownst to users.
The same sentiment is echoed by Caplan, an expert in scientific ethics.
"So, Facebook said 'hey, we got your consent -- buried on page 14 of the tiny type is the word 'research' and you gave permission when you signed up for us'. And I think that's utter nonsense," said Caplan. "Do I think that tiny type is sufficient to be informed consent to being in a true experiment. . . no."
"First of all, where it is no one could ever find it and I'm sure no one has ever read it and that's not our fault, that's Facebook's fault. Secondly, the word 'research' and 'my permission' that appears in the context of doing marketing research. It's not like they're going to experiment and lie to you about your news feed," he finished.
Caplan would like to ensure that such undeclared experiments do not take place without informed consent of the participants and worries that a precedent could be set that would allow manipulation by companies with other large databases of user information like Google and 23andMe.com, a DNA test site.
"This is really the tip of the iceberg as far as the research that's constantly done on us by all these massive, massive, media entities like Facebook and Google, and that's how these sites function, you know. Without these kinds of tests, they wouldn't be able to be as good at what they do as they are. That doesn't take away from the sort of ethical problems with these kinds of studies," added Wiener.
For the average Facebook user, despite a flurry on online comments, news of the involuntary study brought more shrugs than closed accounts.
"I'm not surprised," said one user.
"I'm not surprised because I feel like they've been doing more and more things with people's data on Facebook, using the data for advertising purposes, gathering the data, so, yeah it doesn't surprise me."
"I guess as a user of a free site I don't think I should be able to tell them, you know, what I demand out of their product. If anything I can stop using or I can use it, you know. I have that availability, but I don't think I should be able to tell them how to run their own company," added another user.
While Facebook has not made an official comment regarding the research, the lead author of the study, Adam Kramer posted an open letter on his page to explain the experiment which he said had the goal "to learn how to provide a better service".
