Oscar Pistorius had a heightened concern for his personal safety and was making plans to take girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on international trips shortly before he fatally shot her, his agent testified at the double-amputee runner's murder trial today in Pretoria.
The defence called Peet van Zyl to the stand in an attempt to bolster Pistorius's account that he mistook Steenkamp for an intruder, providing testimony about a loving relationship and a fear of crime that may have pushed the Paralympian to fire through a closed toilet door.
Van Zyl faced tough questioning from the chief prosecutor, however, about Pistorius's alleged egotism and tantrums, high-speed driving and love of guns. The prosecution maintains that he intentionally killed Steenkamp in his home after an argument in the early hours of Feb. 14, 2013.
'Heightened sense of awareness'
Pistorius, who is free on bail, faces 25 years to life in prison if found guilty of premeditated murder, but he could also be sentenced to significant time behind bars if convicted of murder without premeditation or negligent killing. He also faces gun-related charges.
The agent, who helped guide Pistorius to success as a globally renowned athlete with lucrative sponsorship deals that have since been stripped away, testified that his client had a "heightened sense of awareness" and appeared preoccupied with security at times.
On one occasion, he recalled, Pistorius drove with him at high speed to the airport and, when told there was no rush, recalled a traumatic episode in which Van Zyl was accosted at gunpoint while in his car in 2007.
"He wanted to ensure that we are safe and not being followed," Van Zyl said.
He also remembered a time when Pistorius grabbed him by the arm in apparent fear when the pair heard a loud bang while walking in New York City, and described two occasions in which the runner lost his temper but was not aggressive under "abusive questioning" from journalists.
He also said he was assisting Pistorius in plans to take Steenkamp, a 29-year-old model, to races in Britain and Brazil, and a concert in Italy.
Prosecutor Gerrie Nel tried to pick holes in Van Zyl's testimony, pressing the agent for details about a reported incident in which a South African athlete who was sharing a room with Pistorius asked for them to be separated because Pistorius was allegedly arguing frequently on his telephone. He also referred to a 2012 Paralympics race in which Pistorius accused the winner of breaking the rules by using prosthetic limbs that were too long.
Van Zul acknowledged that it was the "wrong place and wrong time for him to react in such a way," but noted there was a "long lead-up" to the incident in which Pistorius had expressed concerns that rules were being flouted.
Nel also described Pistorius's plans to take Steenkamp on trips as an example of alleged narcissism after Van Zyl quoted the athlete as saying he wanted his girlfriend "to see what my world is about, the pressure that I'm under" and "how I need to perform."
During an adjournment, Van Zyl and Pistorius shook hands. The two men patted each other warmly on the back.
Screams come under scrutiny
Earlier in the day, testimony focused on a pillar of the prosecution's case -- the screams that neighbours heard on the night the athlete killed Steenkamp.
Nel questioned acoustics expert Ivan Lin, who had been called by the defence team as part of its effort to suggest some neighbours who said they heard the screams of a woman were wrong, and that they actually heard the high-pitched screams of the double-amputee runner.
Several neighbours called by the prosecution have testified that they heard a woman's terrified screams on the night Pistorius shot Steenkamp, which could bolster the prosecution's claim that the couple was arguing before Pistorius opened fire.
Lin has testified that he conducted tests that showed ambient noise and other factors can make it difficult to hear accurately from a distance.
Nel said the screams of a woman have a "tonal character" and referred to the testimony of the neighbours who were convinced they had heard a screaming woman.
Lin responded that he could not say whether the neighbours were "correct or incorrect."

Pistorius Not Mentally Ill When Firing, Report Says
Continue reading the main story Video
Mental Health and the Pistorius Trial
Although Oscar Pistorius was found not to have been mentally ill when he killed his girlfriend, the issue of his mental health will most likely persist at his murder trial.
Video Credit By Natalia V. Osipova Publish Date on June 30, 2014. Image Credit Image by Ihsaan Haffejee/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images
LONDON -- The trial of Oscar Pistorius, the disabled South African track star, resumed on Monday after psychiatric assessments that could have derailed the proceedings concluded that he was not mentally ill when he killed his girlfriend last year.
The trial in the South African capital, Pretoria, had been suspended since mid-May while Mr. Pistorius, 27, underwent tests at the Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital. If the evaluation had found serious mental impairment, his trial could have ended abruptly.
The prosecution says he murdered his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp, 29, in a jealous rage after an argument, but Mr. Pistorius says he shot her by mistake, believing that an intruder had entered his home and was hiding in a toilet cubicle when he fired four shots through the door.
Before the postponement, a defense witness said he suffered from a general anxiety disorder stemming from the amputation of both legs below the knee at the age of 11 months after he was born without fibula bones.
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage
But a report prepared by the psychiatrists who examined him found that "at the time of the alleged offenses, the accused did not suffer from a mental disorder or mental defect that affected his ability to distinguish between the rightful or wrongful nature of his deeds," the chief prosecutor, Gerrie Nel, told the court on Monday.
The conclusion was critical since defendants deemed unable to distinguish between right and wrong can be committed indefinitely to state mental institutions, South African lawyers not associated with the case have said.
Mr. Nel and the lead defense lawyer, Barry Roux, accepted the findings.
The ruling permitted the trial, which is being broadcast around the world, to resume with the defense winding up its case before both sides present closing arguments to Judge Thokozile Matilda Masipa. Since there are no jury trials in South Africa, the judge, advised by two assessors, will determine Mr. Pistorius's guilt or innocence most likely after lengthy deliberations.
Before the killing on Feb. 14, 2013, Mr. Pistorius was one of the world's most famous athletes, a symbol of overcoming adversity after he competed against both able-bodied and disabled runners at the Olympic and Paralympic Games in London in 2012. He and Ms. Steenkamp, a model and law graduate, had seemed a gilded couple in the world of South African celebrity.
Before the trial adjourned last month, Dr. Merryll Vorster, a forensic psychiatrist called by the defense, said Mr. Pistorius's anxiety dated to the amputation of his legs, exacerbated by a childhood when his father was frequently absent and his mother was so worried about intruders that she slept with a firearm under her pillow.
The athlete's condition, which worsened with time, made him "hypervigilant" about potential threats and led him to respond to perceived danger with reflexes of "fight" rather than "flight," Dr. Vorster said. Mr. Nel, the prosecutor, used the testimony to demand a psychiatric examination of Mr. Pistorius.
In the United States and elsewhere, psychiatric assessments are often used by the defense to establish diminished responsibility -- and therefore limited culpability. But in the Pistorius case, the prosecution sought to challenge the defense's inference that psychological factors buttressed the case for acquittal or leniency.
Mr. Pistorius faces a mandatory minimum prison term of 25 years if convicted of premeditated murder, but he could face a shorter sentence on a lesser charge of culpable homicide.
As the trial resumed on Monday, Gerald Versfeld, the surgeon who amputated Mr. Pistorius's lower legs, quoted the runner as saying that he fell frequently and had difficulties balancing when he was walking on his stumps without the prosthetics he now uses. Underlining the runner's vulnerability, he quoted Mr. Pistorius as saying that his dog had "knocked me over many times."
According to reporters in the courtroom, Judge Masipa and her assessors closely examined Mr. Pistorius's stumps as Mr. Versfeld explained how the skin moved on them. The scrutiny, which was not televised, left Mr. Pistorius distressed after the details of his disability were exposed, the reporters said in posts on Twitter.
