Clean bill of mental health plays into hands of prosecutor Nel - Independent.ie
Fiona Forde
Published 01/07/2014|02:30
The gaze of the world's media was focused on Oscar Pistorius once again yesterday when his murder trial resumed following a six-week break, during which the accused was subjected to psychiatric assessment. The upshot: the famous sprinter is sane, though stressed.
The Paralympian was evaluated not because it is usual practice in South Africa half way through a trial, but because an expert witness, called by his own legal team, told the court Mr Pistorius was suffering from 'generalised anxiety disorder' or GAD, which she believed may have influenced his actions on the night he shot dead Reeva Steenkamp.
It was an unwitting remark that landed right in the lap of the state's excellent prosecutor, Advocate Gerrie Nel, who was quick to convince the court that if there was any doubt about the accused's mental health, it had to be probed.
Either Mr Pistorius was 'insane' at the time of the crime and didn't know what he was doing, or he had full 'capacity' and appreciated the consequences of his actions. The court must know either way, Mr Nel argued.
The presiding judge, Thokozile Masipa, was forced to send Mr Pistorius for a proper psychiatric evaluation.
It was a decision that would carry profound implications for the outcome of the trial. If Mr Pistorius was found to be mentally deficient, it could have been argued that he was unfit to stand trial. Alternatively, and depending on the severity of a possible disorder, he could have been acquitted, or if not, handed a lenient sentence for Ms Steenkamp's death. Mr Nel knew what he was doing when he pushed for that psychiatric assessment, however. He has always been of the firm view that Mr Pistorius shot her in a fit of rage, and with full intention, and in possession of the full mental capacity to understand the criminal consequences.
By forcing that psychiatric evaluation, Mr Nel was betting on an expert view to back up his own assessment of Mr Pistorius's mental health.
In legal terms, he was counting on a critical aggravating circumstance. Which is precisely what the medical panel did when they unanimously granted Mr Pistorius a clean bill of mental health in a report submitted to the court yesterday.
This is a heavy blow to Mr Pistorius, who insists he mistook Ms Steenkamp for an intruder in the middle of the night. His legal team will find it hard to hold that line, or argue that the 27-year-old was out of control of his actions, and therefore did not shoot Ms Steenkamp intentionally, as the state argues.
In a fortnight or so from now, the heads of argument will be presented and it is then up to Judge Masipa to decide how long she would like to take to deliberate over all of the evidence.
Her judgment is expected to be handed down somewhere around the end of August or early September.

