Tiger Woods struggles but makes British Open cut
Tiger Woods plays a shot on the 4th hole during the second day of the British Open Golf championship at the Royal Liverpool. Woods is a three-time British Open winner including a win in 2006 at Royal Liverpool.(Photo: Scott Heppell AP)
Tiger Woods had a rough start and a rough end to his Friday round at the British Open.
That could have cost him a chance at playing the weekend if not for a last-minute scramble.
After a slow start Friday -- double-bogey, bogey -- Woods had 14 consecutive pars.
Then on No. 17, he hit his tee shot out of bounds and followed by striking his next tee shot into the rough.
He took a triple-bogey 7 and was +3 for the tournament with a hole to play.
He needed a birdie on the par 5, No. 18 to make the cut.
He hit a terrific chip shot and then rolled in the putt for his only birdie of the round and most likely keep him in the tournament.
.The three-time British Open winner was hoping to match his back nine that he shot on Thursday.
Woods, who started bogey-bogey yesterday, had five birdies after the turn and could have used some of that magic today.
He shot a 38 on the front and finished +2 for the tournament. The cut line stands at +2 for the moment.
LEADERBOARD: British Open
He has began his back nine with five pars. That includes on the 11th, 12th, 13th, 15th and 16th. He birdied all of them on Thursday.
Woods, looking for a jump start on Friday, didn't get it on his opening tee shot as he hooked it into the bad stuff at Royal Liverpool.
Woods who started out bogey-bogey on Thursday before setting the back nine on fire, saw his early troubles continue Friday.
After his wild tee shot, he punched out and rolled into the right rough. He would end up double-bogeying No. 1 to quickly drop to -1 for the tournament.
He quickly got to even par when he bogeyed the second hole after missing a short par putt.
Things settled down after that as he parred No. 3 and 4 but did miss a make-able birdie putt on No.4.
Perhaps an indication that it would be a tough front nine was his par on No. 5.
Labeled the easiest hole on the course, Woods hit a mediocre tee shot, got a bad break when he approached rolled back from the green and then hit a poor putt that rushed 15 feet past the pin and settled for a 5.
He would finish the front with a par on No. 6, a great scramble for par on No. 7, par on No. 8 and prepared for the turn with a par on the par 3 ninth.
The three-time British Open winner, who won here in 2006, seemed to show no ill effects from his March 31 back surgery that limited his preparation for the British Open to two rounds at the Quicken Loans National.
But said those two rounds really helped him physically and mentally.
He was able to use driver when needed and took full swings from the punitive rough around Royal Liverpool.
"... I'm getting stronger, I'm getting faster, I'm getting more explosive," he said after Thursday's round. "The ball is starting to travel again. And those are all positive things."

