The Open 2014: Tiger Woods's master class of 2006 recalled by those who witnessed it - Telegraph
By the end, I was delighted by how it had all gone. The leader board said it all and the winner was obviously a legend. And we did get some great compliments, including from Tiger Woods.
I remember Peter Alliss was especially enthusiastic on television. But there were some players who didn't get it. It apparently was not the type of golf they enjoy or were used to. One letter to the club did make me laugh.
It came from an American lady. She wondered if the course manager had realised the championship was coming and why had he killed the grass? She missed the point a bit.
Sir Nick Faldo Playing partner first two rounds...
I was drawn to play with Tiger for the first two days and, to be honest, it was the last thing I needed - not because it was Tiger but because I had hardly played up in the run-up and my game did not need to be in the spotlight.
Inevitably, the press had great fun in building up a feud between us. He had been upset about my comments on television 18 months before. Well, he was walking to the range on Wednesday afternoon and I heard the bookies were offering 25-1 that he chinned me.
So I said to him: "We can cut a deal here." Typical Tiger, he said: "I'll put two million on it!" And I thought: "That'll do nicely. If I can get just five per cent of that, I'll win more than I'm going to make at the Open."
Old pals' act: Tiger Woods and Nick Faldo during the second round
It was absolutely great. I let him get on with it. He was deep in concentration, as I would have been in that situation. We just talked about bits and bobs, the forthcoming season, his thoughts on the Ryder Cup. We had a good chin-wag.
And I got a laugh out of him going off the last on the 18th. My son, Matthew, was on the bag and we were trying to get a memento off Tiger. I said to him: "As you're not using your driver, could Matthew have it?"
He only hit it once in four days, and he should not have hit the one on the 16th on the first day. He was going in with four irons and I think they calculated that he was playing an 8,500-yard golf course playing it that way. Seriously. So that was Tiger at his optimum. That was him in a Tiger Zen.
Ernie Els Playing partner third round...
In 2006 the course was brown and dusty and it was hot, with no wind until the last day. You have to control your ball, and because the course is built on a sand dune near the ocean there are a lot of run-off points on each hole.
It is also unbelievably well bunkered. I was 11 under after two rounds but then on Saturday and Sunday I slowed up.
I was playing with Tiger in the third round and we both shot 71. I made some late birdies on the Sunday, but it was too late by then and Tiger was already gone. But it was nice to be in the mix.
Master blaster: Ernie Els plays out of a bunker in 2006
Andy Cross Hoylake captain in 2006...
I first met Tiger on the Saturday before the Open. He had gone out unannounced to play a few holes, having arrived earlier that day from the United States. I and a few hundred other people had chased out after him.
I caught up with him coming off the sixth when he was talking to Peter Dawson, who introduced me. I told him how thrilled we all were that he was here and we talked about Peter Thomson, who was also there that week.
The following Sunday at the prize giving I said, "OK so that's two in a row - now you have to win next year to be like hat-trick Thomson over there!" Tiger smiled. He had remembered our conversation from a week earlier.
"You did this for your family?" I asked. "Yes I did" he replied. I gave him the gold medal and said: "Here, put this one in your pocket."
We were all moved by his tribute to his father and his expression of love for him which he gives so openly and honestly. His triumph and its meaning were now complete.
Hank Haney Tiger Woods' coach in 2006...
What he did that week was the finest exhibition of ball-striking at any Major championship. He never missed a shot - and he holed that four iron on the 14th hole in the second round.
The key stroke for him to win at Hoylake was the stinger shot, the low, driven, running iron off the tee. It really just took two holes in practice to realise that. You really could see the theme of the course right away.
Iron will: Tiger Woods plays his tee shot on the seventh in the second round
If the course had been soft, there was no way he could hit that stinger shot. Another crucial factor was that he was the only player in the field who could have employed that strategy. No one else could hit an iron off the tee like he did because they did not have that low stinger shot - and they could not hit it as far as him.
Iain Carter BBC golf correspondent...
I was out commentating on Tiger's group for the first three days and, as is custom, on the final day I was up in the booth. Of course I remember the holed second shot on the 14th on the Friday morning.
Miracle shot: Tiger Woods celebrates his four-iron eagle in the second round
It was a shot I will never forget. Because of the nature of radio commentating, I was ahead of the shot. I can see the flash of the club head at top of his backswing now. He was in a lower position and I was up high, 30 yards short of the green or so, so I could see both the swing and where the ball ended.
It was weird, because even though he had been playing magical golf there was something about this ball's flight which made me sense that this was something special.
I don't know why and I cannot explain it. But there was an atmosphere and when the ball landed and took five or six hops before dropping for that eagle two, there was an eruption of noise.
As I was screaming at the producers to get me on live to explain how Woods had delivered an instant hammer blow, I recall looking back and seeing Woods celebrating with his caddie, Steve Williams.
Those of us up by the green had all known and he had not. I was on air within a few seconds and just explained what I had witnessed.
And the final round? Sergio Garcia in that all-yellow ensemble and Woods staring him down. Nails.
A few weeks after the Open we learned that Woods had texted a friend saying: "I just bludgeoned Tweetie Pie".
Sergio Garcia Playing partner final round...
I never even knew about that business until years later when someone asked me about it. Honestly, it doesn't bother me one bit.
Deep trouble: Sergio Garcia plays out of a bunker as Tiger Woods looks on
Who knows - maybe I should be flattered that he thought that beating me that day was such a big deal.
Chris DiMarco Runner-up...
I had lost my mother, suddenly, just a couple of weeks before the Open. For some reason, I felt a lot of peace on the golf course. I was very, very at ease. My putting was phenomenal, I always seemed to putt my best on fast greens such as those ones.
I watched it all back just the other day and what was also noticeable was that I did not always hit the greatest shots but I left the ball in the right spots when I missed.
My mother was called Norma. On the first tee that Sunday, one of the walking scorers came over and introduced herself as Norma. I think I had only met one or two other Normas in my life.
That was divine intervention as far as I was concerned. Whether through that or not, I had real peace of mind all day. Up until holing a birdie putt on the 14th, I did not show any emotion at all, which was unusual for me - I was usually more vocal.
Something to shout about: Chris DiMarco celebrates his birdie on the 14th
I just felt in a really, really good place and when I holed that putt on 14 I absolutely felt I could win. It was the hardest hole on the course and Tiger still had to play it. I hit a great shot into 15 that just took a little kick. On 17 I had 15ft for birdie and grazed the hole. So there were chances.
I think between 2002 and 2004 guys were scared to go head-to-head with Tiger. He loves to compete and he used to use that to his advantage, to intimidate guys. But I think if you asked him about his majors, the ones where he was challenged and was fighting to win would be his favourites.
Tim Drake Fan...
I was working in Liverpool at the time and went all four days. I was only originally going on the Thursday but it was so good that I took the next day off work and missed my mate's wedding at the weekend.
It was all about Tiger. As he would walk by you would hear broad Scouse yells of "Go on, Tiger lad."
It was so hot; it wasn't like being in Britain. And with everyone in shorts, it seemed more like a festival than a golf tournament. I have been to other Opens and it does feel a bit stuffy at some of them. Not at Hoylake.
People's champion: Tiger Woods won over the public inside and outside the course
They said that more than 230,000 people attended that week, but it honestly felt more. I stayed for the prize ceremony and recall people crying around me when Tiger talked about his father.
I don't care what happened with Woods afterwards, with that sex scandal and everything, Woods will always be my hero. He seemed really human in 2006.
It was easily the best sporting event I had ever been to.
Rory McIlroy Watching from afar
I was on holiday with my parents in Spain and every afternoon we would go into this small pub and watch the golf. I'd been playing the European Youths in Sotogrande and was a Tiger nut. I remember how good he was down the stretch, Chris DiMarco making a run at him on the back nine and Tiger being able to make the putts to keep him at bay.
Everyone seemed fascinated by the fact he only hit one driver all week but I wasn't really. If you don't need a driver, what's the point in hitting it?Tiger played the course the way he felt comfortable and has the talent to make it work.
Would I class this as the best of his 14 major victories? I would probably go the US Open at Pebble Beach in 2000, when he won by 15. But Hoylake was impressive.
Haney...
When he broke down in tears after that final putt, I was surprised. I had not seen that kind of emotion coming and probably nobody did.
Overcome: caddie Steve Williams comforts Tiger Woods after the winning putt
But a few hours later, in his jet on the way home, Tiger was the most excited that I had ever seen him after a major. He poured champagne into the trophy and passed it around for everyone to drink.
He was so happy that for the first and only time I asked him to sign something for me. I handed him one of the Hoylake yardage books and a championship programme. He signed both "Tiger Woods".
I thanked him but I was kind of hoping that he would write something personal and include my name.
