The Open 2014 - first round live | Scott Murray | Sport | theguardian.com
Roberto De Vicenzo is principally remembered these days for the administrative mistake that cost him a play-off place at the 1968 Masters, and the resulting self-deprecating shrug of "What a stupid I am!" But there are much nicer quotes, and this is a much happier story.
Roberto De Vicenzo at Hoylake in 1967
For years I came over trying so hard to win. This year, I simply came back to see my friends.
The popular and humble De Vicenzo had been coming over and trying so hard to win the Open Championship since 1948, when as a big-hitting 25 year old debutant, he had tied for third place at Muirfield. When he followed that up 12 months later with another third-placed finish at Royal St George's, an Open victory for the gentle Argentinian seemed just around the corner.
But the stars refused to align for De Vicenzo. It looked like being third time lucky in 1950 at Troon, when he set a clubhouse target of 281, a record low Open total. But Bobby Locke carded a 68 and snatched both De Vicenzo's shiny new record and the even shinier Auld Claret Jug. In 1953, Roberto was tied for the lead at the 54-hole mark alongside Ben Hogan, but felt inside that he had no chance, as his putting stroke, never the most dependable, was sure to let him down. Having talked himself out of it, he shot 73 to Hogan's 68 and ended up in sixth position.
He should have won at Hoylake in 1956, and would have done so easily were it not for a third-round 79 in which his putter malfunctioned from the off with a three-putt at the 1st. Peter Thomson won, four shots ahead of De Vicenzo in third place again. In 1960, he opened with a pair of 67s at St Andrews, the best start since Henry Cotton in 1934. But it wasn't to be. The Argentinian - competing under the flag of Mexico, as he was working there at the time - missed two short putts early in a third-round 75, and ended the tournament in third spot again, four behind the eventual winner Kel Nagle. He finished third in 1964 and fourth in 1965, always a contender, but somehow never able to put four rounds together.
Player and De Vicenzo
When the Open returned to Hoylake in 1967, De Vicenzo was teeing it up as a 44-year-old 33-1 outsider. He wasn't expected to prevail, but one crucial factor was in his favour. He had the love of the friends he had come back to see: the Royal Liverpool crowd. They were aware of his astonishing Open record: in the ten times he had previously entered, he had been runner up once, third five times, fourth once, six once, and further out than that only twice. They were desperate for the nearly man to finally get over the line. And so he did, a third-round 67 the highlight of a week which had seen him finally relax, go nose-to-nose with reigning champion Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player, and best them both to finally lift a major prize. Usually so nervous, he had taken strength from the galleries, and sealed the deal with a pearler of a 3-wood into the heart of the par-five 16th, having nearly sent his tee shot out of bounds, securing the birdie that saw off the Golden Bear. There have been few more popular Open champions.
I had many peoples with me.
So sweet, and kind of knocks that "stupid" quote into a cocked hat. The brilliant De Vicenzo is one of several superstars to win an Open at Hoylake. Other legends on the roll of honour: the great showman Walter Hagen, at the first Open to admit paying punters; Bobby Jones, who won the second leg of his grand slam here; Arnaud Massy, the first non-Brit to win the Open; five-time champion Peter Thomson, winning his third consecutive Open; and of course, last time round in 2006, an emotional, recently bereaved Tiger Woods. It's a place where amazing stories unfold. Another, please!
Walter Hagen is congratulated by his wife Edna at Hoylake in 1924
Bobby Jones thanks the Hoylake punters in 1930
Tiger, returning from the back injury that kept him out of the Masters and the US Open, is looking to repeat the trick of 2006. Tiger being Tiger, you'd not rule him out. But he is a little ring rusty, and he's not the favourite. World number one Adam Scott, Scottish Open champion Justin Rose, two-time major winner Rory McIlroy and the nearly man de nos jours, last year's runner up Henrik Stenson, are the bookies' preferred choices.
But good luck picking a winner from a super-strong field. Defending champion Phil Mickelson isn't in top form right now, but he's a late-flowering links expert, and now knows how to close out an Open. Martin Kaymer has this year's US Open and the Players in his bag. Graeme McDowell is always a factor at the Open, and was the first-round leader here in 2006 after shooting a 66. Rickie Fowler, Jason Day and Dustin Johnson keep threatening to win a major, and someone's surely going to break through soon. Jordan Spieth already feels like a fixture at the majors. And then there's Sergio. He couldn't, could he? No, of course not. Nope. No. But he might. Oh please. If he manages to hold it together for the first three rounds - an if as big as the Mersey is wide, I'll grant you that - he'll have many peoples with him come Sunday.
All the best players in the world, making their way around the second oldest links course in England. A tight track that offers plenty of reward for the brave, and similar levels of punishment for the foolish. (Tiger, famously, won round here last time using his driver only once. God speed, Dustin!) It promises to be a classic. Don't know about you, but I've got Open fever. Somebody please call Dr Golf!
Today's tee times (all in British PS s d):
6.25 am: David Howell, David Duval, Robert Karlsson
6.36 am: Dawie van der Walt, Cameron Tringale, Masanori Kobayashi
6.47 am: Chris Wood, Matt Jones, Bernd Wiesberger
6.58 am: Erik Compton, Hyung-Sung Kim, Marc Leishman
7.09 am: Koumei Oda, Ben Martin, Anirban Lahiri
7.20 am: Kiradech Aphibarnrat, Brooks Koepka, Edoardo Molinari
7.31 am: Branden Grace, Freddie Jacobson, Ashley Chesters
7.42 am: Justin Leonard, Ben Curtis, Paul Lawrie
7.53 am: Francesco Molinari, Ryan Moore, Thorbjorn Olesen
8.04 am: Matteo Manassero, Bradley Neil, Mikko Ilonen
8.15 am: Thomas Bjorn, Patrick Reed, Stewart Cink
8.26 am: Tom Watson, Jim Furyk, Darren Clarke
8.37 am: Luke Donald, Rickie Fowler, Sergio Garcia
8.53 am: Harris English, Paul Casey, Matt Every
9.04 am: Tiger Woods, Angel Cabrera, Henrik Stenson
9.15 am: Charl Schwartzel, Padraig Harrington, K.J. Choi
9.26 am: Rory McIlroy, Hideki Matsuyama, Jordan Spieth
9.37 am: Ian Poulter, Dustin Johnson, Jimmy Walker
9.48 am: Graeme McDowell, Matt Kuchar, Louis Oosthuizen
9.59 am: Stephen Gallacher, Hunter Mahan, Victor Dubuisson
10.10 am: Nick Faldo, Todd Hamilton, David Hearn
10.21 am: Ryan Palmer, Brett Rumford, Tomohiro Kondo
10.32 am: John Singleton, Peter Uihlein, Marc Warren
10.43 am: Paul McKechnie, Kristoffer Broberg, Juvic Pagunsan
10.54 am: Rhein Gibson, Brian Harman, Hyung-Tae Kim
11.05 am: Chris Hanson, Oscar Floren, Yoshinobu Tsukada
11.26 am: James McLeary, Matthew Southgate, Hiroshi Iwata
11.37 am: Roberto Castro, Victor Riu, Tyrrell Hatton
11.48 am: Dong-Kyu Jang, Nick Watney, Shawn Stefani
11.59 am: D.A. Points, Y.E. Yang, Brendan Steele
12.10 pm: Scott Stallings, Pablo Larrazabal, Bryden Macpherson
12.21 pm: George Coetzee, Charley Hoffman, Michael Hoey
12.32 pm: Kevin Streelman, Brendon De Jonge, Brendon Todd
12.43 pm: Gary Woodland, Sandy Lyle, Kevin Stadler
12.54 pm: Brandt Snedeker, Graham DeLaet, Cheng Tsung Pan
1.05 pm: Boo Weekley, Danny Willett, Ashun Wu
1.16 pm: J.B. Holmes, Jonas Blixt, Chris Kirk
1.27 pm: Miguel Angel Jimenez, Bill Haas, Thongchai Jaidee
1.38 pm: Martin Kaymer, Jason Day, Zach Johnson
1.54 pm: Webb Simpson, Jamie Donaldson, Yusaku Miyazato
2.05 pm: Phil Mickelson, Ernie Els, Bubba Watson
2.16 pm: Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano, Russell Henley, Billy Horschel
2.27 pm: Adam Scott, Justin Rose, Jason Dufner
2.38 pm: Ryo Ishikawa, Lee Westwood, Keegan Bradley
2.49 pm: Kevin Na, Joost Luiten, John Senden
3.00 pm: John Daly, Tommy Fleetwood, Ross Fisher
3.11 pm: Mark Wiebe, Rafael Cabrera Bello, Paul Dunne
3.22 pm: Oliver Fisher, Chesson Hadley, Shane Lowry
3.33 pm: George McNeill, Richard Sterne, Chris Stroud
3.44 pm: Gregory Bourdy, Jin Jeong, Matthew Baldwin
3.55 pm: Justin Walters, Rhys Enoch, Billy Hurley III
4.06 pm: Christopher Rodgers, Scott Jamieson, Byeong-Hun An
