Dollar rises broadly
July 18, 2014
RECORDER REPORT
The dollar rose broadly on Wednesday amid market speculation Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is tilting toward tightening monetary policies that have kept US interest rates at record lows. "We are seeing the dollar strong against the euro, against sterling, against the yen a little bit," said Thierry Wizman, global interest rates and currencies strategist at Macquarie Group Limited in New York.
Disappointing economic reports in Europe and comments on Tuesday and Wednesday by Yellen before Congress suggesting US rate hikes may come sooner than expected were driving dollar purchases, currency strategists said. "It seems to me that there are a few more hawkish hints than we have seen lately," Wizman said. "I don't think we will get more hawkish hints from the Fed until September. But the trend until then, and through that period, is strongly US dollar."
The dollar index, which measures the dollar's performance against a basket of six other major currencies, was up 0.2 percent to 80.565 after touching its highest level in a month. "She cracked the door open to potentially earlier US rate rises, and that has really caught the market's attention," said Joe Manimbo, senior market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions in Washington.
Treasury yields, seen as central to the dollar's appeal in currency markets, were initially higher on Wednesday but later slipped, with the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note up 3/32 in price to yield 2.537 percent after touching a high of 2.57 percent. Sterling fell against the dollar to $1.7135, off a nearly six-year high of $1.7192 struck on Tuesday, but it was up against the euro to a near two-year peak. The euro was down 0.35 percent at $1.3523, falling to its lowest in one month, while the greenback was slightly higher against the yen at 101.71 yen after touching a one-week high of 101.79.
Copyright Reuters, 2014

Restraining the Fed's oversight would be a grave mistake, Yellen says | GulfNews.com
Washington: The Federal Reserve's chairwoman, Janet L Yellen, said on Wednesday that it would be a "grave mistake" for Congress to adopt legislation proposed by House Republicans constraining the Fed's management of monetary policy.
Yellen and Republican lawmakers traded strong words during a testy hearing before the House Financial Services Committee that focused on a bill that would require the Fed to publish a set of rules for raising and lowering interest rates.
Yellen said such a rule would impair the Fed's ability to manage the economy, even inhibiting its ability to respond to financial crises. It "would essentially undermine central bank independence," she said.
Republicans criticised what they described as an alarmist response by Yellen and Democrats to a proposal that they said would do nothing more than modestly increase the Fed's accountability by requiring greater transparency.
They emphasised that the legislation did not specify a particular rule -- it simply told the Fed to pick one. The committee's chairman, Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, sharply criticised what he described as "howling protests and apocalyptic visions from my Democratic colleagues," calling them "apologists for the status quo."
"The Fed can set any rule it wishes," Hensarling added. "It can change the rule any time it wishes. It can deviate from the rule any time it wishes." Under the proposed bill, he added, "it simply has to report and explain this to the rest of us. That's what transparency and accountability are all about."
The sparring largely overshadowed questions about the current course of Fed policy, in the face of mounting evidence that the economy has recovered from a rocky winter.
The Fed's Beige Book, an anthology of economic impressions gathered by the Fed regional banks and released two weeks before meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, reported that growth continued at a "modest to moderate pace" throughout the country.
The report was consistent with recent data showing stronger job growth and improvements in manufacturing activity. On Wednesday, the Fed reported that manufacturing output increased 0.1 per cent in June, a modest increase that capped a strong quarter during which factory production advanced at an annual rate of 6.7 per cent.
Another report, from the Labour Department, found producer prices rebounding 0.4 per cent last month after a decline of 0.2 per cent in May, also showing signs of a healthier manufacturing sector. The government will publish an initial estimate of second-quarter economic activity at the end of July.
The evidence of faster growth has revived concerns that the Fed will need to move more quickly. The central bank plans to end the expansion of its bond holdings in October. Yellen did not give a direct answer on Wednesday to questions about how soon the Fed would begin to raise its key short-term gauge from its current rate near zero, but she did note that most economists expected the Fed to act in the third quarter of 2015.
Some Fed officials and economists say that is not soon enough. Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said on Wednesday that the Fed should start raising rates early next year.
"We are at risk of doing what the Fed has too often done: overstaying our welcome by staying too loose too long," he said. "I believe the time to dilute the punch is close upon us."
James Bullard, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis, also has warned in recent weeks that he now expects inflation will rise above the Fed's target next year.
Yellen has largely played down such concerns, describing inflation as muted and unlikely to rebound strongly. She remained primarily concerned about reducing unemployment and expediting the incomplete recovery.
Citing "substantial headwinds" impeding growth, she said, "Until they are completely gone, it calls for an accommodative monetary policy."
Her testimony to Congress, however, included an acknowledgment that the Fed would act sooner if the recovery, particularly in the labour market, continued to outstrip expectations.
The hearing on Wednesday had this debate about current policy as its subtext.
The Republican-sponsored bill introduced last week would require the Fed to adopt something like the Taylor Rule, a formula written by the Stanford economist John Taylor that specifies interest rates based on inflation and the gap between actual and potential economic output. The Fed could change the rule, but it would be required to explain deviations.
Taylor said last week that his rule would now require the Fed to set short-term interest rates at around 1.25 per cent.
Yellen, in making the case that the Fed needs flexibility, is also arguing that it needs to maintain lower rates to reduce unemployment further.
Rep Bill Huizenga, R-Michigan, who was a co-author of the bill, asked Yellen whether she had read the legislation, waited for a response, and then said he would refresh her memory. He said the point of the bill was to establish accountability. "We cannot have an entity within the federal government just operating on a whim," he said.
Yellen responded that the Fed was "the most transparent central bank to my knowledge in the world."
Democrats rallied to Yellen's defence, contending that Congress already had sufficient oversight of monetary policy. Maxine Waters of California, the committee's ranking Democrat, called it a "recipe for disaster."
Democrats also urged Yellen to persist in holding down interest rates.
"The economy is worse than your statement indicates," Rep. Brad Sherman, D-California, told Yellen.
"There isn't a person in this room who has waxed eloquently about how everything's going spectacularly in their district," he said. "And many, many members have told me and spoken about how, in a very large percentage of this country, we're still in recession."
-- New York Times News Service
