Dollar rises broadly
July 18, 2014
RECORDER REPORT
The dollar rose broadly on Wednesday amid market speculation Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is tilting toward tightening monetary policies that have kept US interest rates at record lows. "We are seeing the dollar strong against the euro, against sterling, against the yen a little bit," said Thierry Wizman, global interest rates and currencies strategist at Macquarie Group Limited in New York.
Disappointing economic reports in Europe and comments on Tuesday and Wednesday by Yellen before Congress suggesting US rate hikes may come sooner than expected were driving dollar purchases, currency strategists said. "It seems to me that there are a few more hawkish hints than we have seen lately," Wizman said. "I don't think we will get more hawkish hints from the Fed until September. But the trend until then, and through that period, is strongly US dollar."
The dollar index, which measures the dollar's performance against a basket of six other major currencies, was up 0.2 percent to 80.565 after touching its highest level in a month. "She cracked the door open to potentially earlier US rate rises, and that has really caught the market's attention," said Joe Manimbo, senior market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions in Washington.
Treasury yields, seen as central to the dollar's appeal in currency markets, were initially higher on Wednesday but later slipped, with the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note up 3/32 in price to yield 2.537 percent after touching a high of 2.57 percent. Sterling fell against the dollar to $1.7135, off a nearly six-year high of $1.7192 struck on Tuesday, but it was up against the euro to a near two-year peak. The euro was down 0.35 percent at $1.3523, falling to its lowest in one month, while the greenback was slightly higher against the yen at 101.71 yen after touching a one-week high of 101.79.
Copyright Reuters, 2014

Gold below $1,300 on stronger dollar, interest rate fears
Wednesday, 16 July 2014 08:59
Posted by Shoaib-ur-Rehman Siddiqui
SINGAPORE: Gold steadied after two days of losses on Wednesday but held below $1,300 an ounce, near a four-week low, on a stronger dollar and fears that the Federal Reserve could hike US interest rates sooner than expected.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen said on Tuesday the US central bank could raise rates earlier or faster if hiring and wages take off in an unexpected way, though she signalled that the Fed will keep monetary policy loose until jobs data shows the effects of the financial crisis are "completely gone".
Spot gold edged up slightly to $1,296.35 an ounce by 0304 GMT, after losing 3.3 percent in the last two sessions - the metal's biggest two-day loss since October.
Traders said gold could have further to fall, especially as this week's $40 drop has failed to generate a robust pick-up in physical demand in Asia.
"I don't see any new positions created at this level or any fresh buying in the physical markets," said Peter Fung, head of dealing at Wing Fung Precious Metals in Hong Kong.
"Prices will see some range-trading now and could consolidate at $1,280-90."
Fung said prices in Hong Kong were either on par with the global benchmark, or slightly lower, due to weak demand.
In China, the top consumer of gold, local premiums edged up to $1 an ounce on the Shanghai Gold Exchange from a small discount in the previous session.
The bigger concern in the market is still about US interest rates, with a hike likely to encourage investors to withdraw money from non-interest-bearing assets such as gold.
Recent economic data from the United States, including that on jobs, has indicated that the economy is on a strong footing.
A strengthening US economy and job market means the Fed should begin raising interest rates "relatively soon," Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Esther George said on Tuesday.
George said by many measures, including a recent rise in rent and food prices, and strong hiring reports, the Fed should have already lifted interest rates from the zero level.
"Despite Yellen defending the Fed's stance to maintain loose monetary policies, the bullion markets seemed to interpret her comments for the possibility of an earlier than an anticipated rate hike as gold-bearish," HSBC analysts said in a note.
"With the break below $1,300/oz and technical weakness, further losses for gold are likely."

