Cavaliers Re-Sign Irving, Trade Jack as NBA Awaits James Signing - Businessweek
The Cleveland Cavaliers extended the contract of point guard Kyrie Irving and freed salary cap room for a possible signing of four-time Most Valuable Player and Ohio native LeBron James.
James, 29, is deciding whether to re-sign with the Miami Heat or return to Cleveland, where he played his first seven National Basketball Association seasons, according to Yahoo Sports. He can receive a new five-year deal from Miami worth about $129 million, while the maximum he could get from another team is $95.8 million over four seasons.
Irving, 22, the No. 1 pick in the 2011 NBA draft, has averaged 20.7 points per game in his three years in the league, the third-highest scoring average among NBA point guards.
"We couldn't be happier to have Kyrie firmly at the core of our Cavaliers team and family for years to come," Cavaliers General Manager David Griffin said yesterday in a statement posted on the teamas website. "He's already proven he's among the best in the NBA and we're excited to watch his continued growth and success."
The Cavaliers did not release contract terms. The Associated Press said it is a five-year, $90 million extension.
James, who grew up in Akron, Ohio, was selected by the Cavaliers with the No. 1 pick in the 2003 draft. James won two championships in four consecutive trips to the NBA Finals with Miami since 2011.
Earlier yesterday, the Cavaliers cleared salary cap space by sending guard Jarrett Jack to the Brooklyn Nets as part of a three-team trade.
Jack and guard Sergey Karasev are headed to the Nets, while center Tyler Zeller and a first-round draft pick are going to the Boston Celtics. The trade opens an additional $9.5 million in salary-cap space for the Cavaliers, giving them $21.7 million, according to ESPN.
To finish the trade, Brooklyn sent guard Marcus Thornton to the Celtics and the draft rights to Ilkan Karaman, Christian Drejer and Edin Bavcic to Cleveland. The Cavaliers also received a conditional second-round pick from Boston.
Yesterday was the first day that free-agent signings and offseason trades could become official. Players and teams had been allowed to negotiate and reach agreements since July 1.
