Television
Emmy Nominations Cross a Few Lines
By BILL CARTERJULY 10, 2014
Continue reading the main story Share This Page
IT'S not just network and cable television. It's everything that's good on video, as far as the Emmys are concerned.
That point was driven home emphatically on Thursday as the nominations for this year's Emmy Awards were announced. The showdown for outstanding drama series spread across cable and pay television services with the list of nominees including some of the most highly praised shows in recent memory. AMC's "Breaking Bad," in its last season, and HBO's "True Detective," in its first, are expected to be strong contenders. They were joined by "Game of Thrones" on HBO, which topped the list with 19 nominations, and "House of Cards" on Netflix, with 13.
"Downton Abbey" and "Mad Men" were the other dramas nominated.
Netflix, the subscription streaming service, was far more a presence than it was last year, racking up 31 nominations, including major nominations in the top series categories for "House of Cards" and "Orange Is the New Black." That was more nominations than some long established networks, including Fox, which had only 18. (That was the Emmy-listed number; Fox pointed out that one of its shows, "Cosmos," received 12 nominations, but they were separated out as Fox/NatGEO, because the series ran on two networks.) On cable, A&E had exactly one nomination.
The strong showing for Netflix was driven by 13 nominations for "House of Cards" and 12 for the newcomer "Orange Is the New Black." Both had multiple entries in the acting categories. Other big winners included two FX mini-series, "Fargo," which racked up the second highest number of nominations (after "Game of Thrones"), with 18, and "American Horror Story," with 17. "Breaking Bad" had 16, as did the HBO movie "The Normal Heart." "True Detective" had 12.
"Saturday Night Live" also scored well, with 14 nominations. It continued to hang in with the late-night talk shows, earning a nomination for outstanding variety series. Also earning nominations in that category were the shows hosted by Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel and Stephen Colbert, who by next year will be network competitors, as well as "The Daily Show With Jon Stewart" and "Real Time With Bill Maher."
The Emmys, scheduled to take place Aug. 25 at the Nokia Theater in Los Angeles, will be telecast on NBC. Seth Meyers, whose late-night talk show is on NBC, will host the ceremony.
In general, broadcasters continued to struggle against the onslaught of strong entries from across the spectrum, with even CBS's "The Good Wife," after a widely praised season, shut out of the best drama- series category. The only broadcaster with a nominee in that super-competitive group was PBS, with "Downton Abbey."
In the comedy-series category, the broadcast networks fared slightly better, with ABC's "Modern Family," which has won an Emmy in each of the last four years, and CBS's "The Big Bang Theory" earning nominations, along with "Veep," "Louie," "Orange Is the New Black" and "Silicon Valley."
CBS led the broadcasters with 47 nominations (dwarfed by the perennial leader HBO with 99), followed by NBC with 46 and ABC with 37. PBS had 34.
In the acting categories, drama was again the stronghold of non-network shows, although Julianna Margulies of "The Good Wife," Kerry Washington of ABC's "Scandal," and Michelle Dockery of "Downton Abbey" did break into the best actress list. Also in the group were the newcomer Lizzy Caplan, widely praised for her performance in Showtime's "Masters of Sex"; Robin Wright of "House of Cards"; and the incumbent winner, Claire Danes from "Homeland," also on Showtime.
Notable omissions included Elisabeth Moss of "Mad Men," Tatiana Maslany for "Orphan Black," Keri Russell for FX's "The Americans" and Vera Farmiga for A&E's "Bates Motel."
On the men's side, it was all nonbroadcast contenders: Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson for "True Detective"; Bryan Cranston for "Breaking Bad"; last year's winner, Jeff Daniels for HBO's "The Newsroom"; Kevin Spacey for "House of Cards"; and one more nomination for Jon Hamm of "Mad Men," who surprisingly has never won this award.
Omissions included Michael Sheen of "Masters of Sex," James Spader of "Blacklist" and Matthew Rhys of "The Americans."
Netflix scored a bit of a surprise nomination for Ricky Gervais in the lead actor category for his comedy "Derek." He was joined in that group by regulars like Jim Parsons of "Big Bang," Louis C.K. of "Louie," Don Cheadle in Showtime's "House of Lies" and Matt LeBlanc in Showtime's "Episodes." A newcomer was William H. Macy of Showtime's "Shameless," which that cable network elbowed into the comedy categories in an attempt to win some nominations.
The category for best actress in a comedy included mostly repeat performers: Amy Poehler of "Parks and Recreation," Melissa McCarthy of "Mike and Molly," Edie Falco of "Nurse Jackie," Julia Louis-Dreyfus of "Veep" and Lena Dunham of "Girls." Again, "Orange" broke into the party, with its star Taylor Schilling.
The strategizing that went into the gaming of categories was evident and in some cases paid off. For instance, "Fargo" and "True Detective" have the exact same format (close-ended series with plans for additional seasons with different casts) but both claimed a host of nominations in separate categories -- mini-series versus drama series -- when they could have canceled each other out, had they gone head to head.
Ms. Falco has been criticized for being listed in the comedy actress group because her performance is so dramatically compelling, but she is at least in a half-hour show, the format of most comedy nominees. "Orange" became the most nominated comedy, even though it's an hour long and includes a good deal of drama.
Fred Armisen, who created and clearly stars in "Portlandia" on IFC, was nominated as a supporting actor.
Then there is the category of outstanding guest actor in a comedy series, which now includes actors who are actually series regulars. Robert Morse in "Mad Men," and Beau Bridges and Allison Janney of "Masters of Sex" all won nominations as "guest" actors.
A version of this article appears in print on July 11, 2014, on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Emmy Nominations Cross a Few Lines. 

Game of Thrones earns 19 Emmy nods
Emmy voters may need to steel themselves to sort through this year's top nominees: a macabre, medieval-style tale; a meth kingpin and his violent downfall; a bleak mystery about detectives tracking a ritual killer, and a heartbreaking saga of the AIDS epidemic's roots.
Small-screen fare has steadily been pushed into bolder, even brilliant territory by cable and, now, online offerings.
So this is enticing the TV academy to recognise programs that are more emotionally and dramatically complex - as well as sexually explicit and, for better or worse, much more violent.
In this widely proclaimed golden age of television-plus, the brutal fantasy saga Game of Thrones, based on the work of novelist George R R Martin, emerged on Thursday as the leading nominee with 19 nods. Dramas Breaking Bad and True Detective and movie The Normal Heart are among the other front-runners.
That's just for starters. The self-evidently titled American Horror Story: Coven, along with Fargo, a riff on the black comedy film of the same name, are provocative miniseries hopefuls for the awards in August.
The academy's broadening embrace includes individual performers as well. The gay rights group GLAAD saluted Laverne Cox's guest-actress nod for Orange Is The New Black as the first for an openly transgender person.
Emmy has welcomed change before, giving a best-drama award to breakthrough 1980s police drama Hill Street Blues for its unprecedented grit and honesty.
But it took four tries for Breaking Bad, one of the most lavishly praised TV series ever, to capture a best drama trophy. It's anti-hero lead is a crystal meth producer. The series won last year.
Whether 21st-century voters will go far enough to crown Game Of Thrones with the top drama award is an intriguing question. With the exception of Lost, shows that fall within the fantasy and sci-fi genres have fallen short, although they have reaped other awards such as Peter Dinklage's 2011 supporting actor award for Game Of Thrones. He's nominated again this year.
'Voters like shows that feel more real and important in terms of today's social or political topics,' said Tom O'Neil, author of The Emmys and organiser of the Gold Derby awards website.
The other best drama contenders are Breaking Bad, Downton Abbey, House Of Cards, Mad Men and True Detective.
Netflix's political thriller House Of Cards, which made a breakthrough last year as the first online series nominated for a major award, has the chance again at Emmy victory.
The prison-set Orange Is The New Black, also from Netflix, leaped that barrier on the flip side this time around with a bid for best comedy series, along with a nod for star Taylor Schilling.
Also competing for best comedy honours are The Big Bang Theory, Louie, Silicon Valley, Veep, and Modern Family, a four-time winner that has the chance to tie Frasier as the all-time winning sitcom with one more award.
There were so many such candidates for the six best drama slots that the critically acclaimed Masters Of Sex and The Good Wife were among those that failed to make the cut.
The 66th prime-time Emmy Awards ceremony certainly will have big-screen star power to spare.
This year's Academy Awards best-actor winner Matthew McConaughey (Dallas Buyers Club) and nominee Chiwetel Ejiofor (12 Years A Slave) are both nominees for TV projects, as are past Oscar winners, including Julia Roberts, Jane Fonda and Billy Bob Thornton.
McConaughey and True Detective co-star Harrelson both will vie for best drama actor honours, along with four-time winner Bryan Cranston for Breaking Bad, Jon Hamm for Mad Men, Kevin Spacey for House of Cards, and Jeff Daniels for The Newsroom, who won the Emmy last year.
Nominees in the lead actress drama category are last year's winner, Homeland star Claire Danes along with Lizzy Caplan for Masters Of Sex, Michelle Dockery for Downton Abbey, Julianna Margulies for The Good Wife, Kerry Washington for Scandal and Robin Wright for House Of Cards.
The 66th Primetime Emmy Awards will air live in Australia on Tuesday, August 26 pay-TV channel FOX8 from 10AM (AEDT).
