Television
Emmy Nominations Cross a Few Lines
By BILL CARTERJULY 10, 2014
Continue reading the main story Share This Page
IT'S not just network and cable television. It's everything that's good on video, as far as the Emmys are concerned.
That point was driven home emphatically on Thursday as the nominations for this year's Emmy Awards were announced. The showdown for outstanding drama series spread across cable and pay television services with the list of nominees including some of the most highly praised shows in recent memory. AMC's "Breaking Bad," in its last season, and HBO's "True Detective," in its first, are expected to be strong contenders. They were joined by "Game of Thrones" on HBO, which topped the list with 19 nominations, and "House of Cards" on Netflix, with 13.
"Downton Abbey" and "Mad Men" were the other dramas nominated.
Netflix, the subscription streaming service, was far more a presence than it was last year, racking up 31 nominations, including major nominations in the top series categories for "House of Cards" and "Orange Is the New Black." That was more nominations than some long established networks, including Fox, which had only 18. (That was the Emmy-listed number; Fox pointed out that one of its shows, "Cosmos," received 12 nominations, but they were separated out as Fox/NatGEO, because the series ran on two networks.) On cable, A&E had exactly one nomination.
The strong showing for Netflix was driven by 13 nominations for "House of Cards" and 12 for the newcomer "Orange Is the New Black." Both had multiple entries in the acting categories. Other big winners included two FX mini-series, "Fargo," which racked up the second highest number of nominations (after "Game of Thrones"), with 18, and "American Horror Story," with 17. "Breaking Bad" had 16, as did the HBO movie "The Normal Heart." "True Detective" had 12.
"Saturday Night Live" also scored well, with 14 nominations. It continued to hang in with the late-night talk shows, earning a nomination for outstanding variety series. Also earning nominations in that category were the shows hosted by Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel and Stephen Colbert, who by next year will be network competitors, as well as "The Daily Show With Jon Stewart" and "Real Time With Bill Maher."
The Emmys, scheduled to take place Aug. 25 at the Nokia Theater in Los Angeles, will be telecast on NBC. Seth Meyers, whose late-night talk show is on NBC, will host the ceremony.
In general, broadcasters continued to struggle against the onslaught of strong entries from across the spectrum, with even CBS's "The Good Wife," after a widely praised season, shut out of the best drama- series category. The only broadcaster with a nominee in that super-competitive group was PBS, with "Downton Abbey."
In the comedy-series category, the broadcast networks fared slightly better, with ABC's "Modern Family," which has won an Emmy in each of the last four years, and CBS's "The Big Bang Theory" earning nominations, along with "Veep," "Louie," "Orange Is the New Black" and "Silicon Valley."
CBS led the broadcasters with 47 nominations (dwarfed by the perennial leader HBO with 99), followed by NBC with 46 and ABC with 37. PBS had 34.
In the acting categories, drama was again the stronghold of non-network shows, although Julianna Margulies of "The Good Wife," Kerry Washington of ABC's "Scandal," and Michelle Dockery of "Downton Abbey" did break into the best actress list. Also in the group were the newcomer Lizzy Caplan, widely praised for her performance in Showtime's "Masters of Sex"; Robin Wright of "House of Cards"; and the incumbent winner, Claire Danes from "Homeland," also on Showtime.
Notable omissions included Elisabeth Moss of "Mad Men," Tatiana Maslany for "Orphan Black," Keri Russell for FX's "The Americans" and Vera Farmiga for A&E's "Bates Motel."
On the men's side, it was all nonbroadcast contenders: Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson for "True Detective"; Bryan Cranston for "Breaking Bad"; last year's winner, Jeff Daniels for HBO's "The Newsroom"; Kevin Spacey for "House of Cards"; and one more nomination for Jon Hamm of "Mad Men," who surprisingly has never won this award.
Omissions included Michael Sheen of "Masters of Sex," James Spader of "Blacklist" and Matthew Rhys of "The Americans."
Netflix scored a bit of a surprise nomination for Ricky Gervais in the lead actor category for his comedy "Derek." He was joined in that group by regulars like Jim Parsons of "Big Bang," Louis C.K. of "Louie," Don Cheadle in Showtime's "House of Lies" and Matt LeBlanc in Showtime's "Episodes." A newcomer was William H. Macy of Showtime's "Shameless," which that cable network elbowed into the comedy categories in an attempt to win some nominations.
The category for best actress in a comedy included mostly repeat performers: Amy Poehler of "Parks and Recreation," Melissa McCarthy of "Mike and Molly," Edie Falco of "Nurse Jackie," Julia Louis-Dreyfus of "Veep" and Lena Dunham of "Girls." Again, "Orange" broke into the party, with its star Taylor Schilling.
The strategizing that went into the gaming of categories was evident and in some cases paid off. For instance, "Fargo" and "True Detective" have the exact same format (close-ended series with plans for additional seasons with different casts) but both claimed a host of nominations in separate categories -- mini-series versus drama series -- when they could have canceled each other out, had they gone head to head.
Ms. Falco has been criticized for being listed in the comedy actress group because her performance is so dramatically compelling, but she is at least in a half-hour show, the format of most comedy nominees. "Orange" became the most nominated comedy, even though it's an hour long and includes a good deal of drama.
Fred Armisen, who created and clearly stars in "Portlandia" on IFC, was nominated as a supporting actor.
Then there is the category of outstanding guest actor in a comedy series, which now includes actors who are actually series regulars. Robert Morse in "Mad Men," and Beau Bridges and Allison Janney of "Masters of Sex" all won nominations as "guest" actors.
A version of this article appears in print on July 11, 2014, on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Emmy Nominations Cross a Few Lines. 

Emmys 2014: TV's top awards need to lift their game
Comment
Done and dusted: Breaking Bad. Photo: Supplied
If the Emmys have demonstrated anything in their six decade-plus history, it is that the winds of change blow very slowly through their cobwebby forest.
Shows past their prime, shows that should have left the screen (let alone Emmy contention) long ago, and shows which, for some inexplicable reason, the Emmys just can't quit.
Denied: The Good Wife is arguably the best drama on TV. Photo: Supplied
That seems to be the complexion of the nominations for the 66th annual Emmy Awards: a big fat old chunk of the past that just won't move on, and a whole lot of bad calls around the edges, with ungracefully ageing hits hanging around like a bad smell, and brilliant, young shows overlooked or sidelined.
Advertisement
The drama category is plump with old favourites: Breaking Bad, Downton Abbey, Game of Thrones, House of Cards, Mad Men and one newcomer, True Detective.
But let's be frank: Breaking Bad is done and dusted, Downton Abbey stopped being brilliant in its second season, the second year of House of Cards wasn't as good as the first and Mad Men has sailed past its prime.
House of Cards received too many nominations. Photo: Supplied
Only Game of Thrones is a rock solid candidate, and it doesn't have a hope when you consider the historic prejudice against "genre" at mainstream awards shows.
So, where is The Good Wife? Where is Sons of Anarchy? Where is The Blacklist? Where is Ray Donovan? Where is The Walking Dead?
With so many extraordinary dramas to choose from, why not genuinely mark those which delivered their best years, rather than pay lip service to a handful of shows deemed to good to be overlooked?
Poor decision or plain desperation? Orange is the New Black has been nominated as a comedy. Photo: Supplied
Okay, so Homeland and The Newsroom probably don't cut it, but Emmy, baby, you can't seriously be pushing Ray Donovan and The Walking Dead aside for Downton Abbey?
Even True Detective, which deserves to be there, is technically a miniseries but has been put into the series category because of regulatory fine print which affects shows badged with a "created by" credit. (Fargo, with the same anthology format, uses the wording "created for television by" and is therefore not affected in the same way. Don't start. It makes no sense.)
Which brings us to the second very big elephant in the room: Orange is the New Black nominated as a comedy? Shameless nominated as a comedy? Is the marketing department's hunger for nomination making these people make mad, bad decisions, or are we seeing plain desperation?
Overlooked: Katey Sagal's work on Sons of Anarchy leaves many nominees in the shade. Photo: Supplied
Both are obviously dramas but rather than suck it up and take their place in what is clearly a long queue to reach the top six, they are pretending that comedic story elements warrant competing against shows like The Big Bang Theory and Modern Family. You know, sitcoms.
That the Emmys' own governing body didn't step in to stop that particular farce reflects as poorly on them as it does on the shows which are using the fine print to do what amounts to cheating.
What is criminal about the Emmys this year is this: House of Cards got too many nominations, and The Americans, Sons of Anarchy and Ray Donovan got few or none. Casting aside Netflix's do-no-wrong magic spell which seems to have us all smiling like TV's answer to the Stepford Wives, all three of those shows had better seasons.
Jeff Daniels and Jon Hamm nominated for outstanding actor in a drama, but not Andrew Lincoln, or Charlie Hunnam? Michelle Dockery and Kerry Washington nominated for outstanding actress in a drama, but not Katey Sagal? Sagal's work on Sons of Anarchy leaves half of those nominated in the shade for texture, complexity and nuance.
So, what is it? Prejudice against bikers? Or prejudice against genre shows? Is it favouritsm towards Netflix because it's the shiny new toy in the toybox? Or simply blindness-by-the-light from film stars, such as Woody Harrelson, Matthew McConaughey and Kevin Spacey who are the big kids in TV's little yard?
Whatever the answer, it is clear the Emmy Awards aren't just splitting at the seams in category terms, they're actually losing their grip on common sense, weighed down by misplaced loyalty to TV shows which seem iconic but aren't, or seem like they ought to be guaranteed their berth, but oughtn't.
Most years there are snubs and oversights, but they are largely the construction of vanity and PR. This year there are gaping holes and few sensible explanations.
Where is Orphan Black's Tatiana Maslany? Why was Breaking Bad's Aaron Paul nominated but not the brilliant Dean Norris? Why no nomination for Michael Sheen from Masters of Sex? Or James Spader for The Blacklist? And what about Girls, pushed not only out of the outstanding comedy category, but also out of outstanding writing and outstanding direction comedy categories as well?
And The Good Wife? It is arguably the best drama on TV when you consider its staff have to deliver twice the volume of a cable drama and move within the restrictions of America's free-to-air network broadcasting standards. They pumped out the best season of any show this year and were denied placement in outstanding drama, writing and direction? Seriously?
There is, in all of this, an echo of Frasier, a brilliant comedy which powerfully demonstrated during the 1990s Emmy's almost cloying affection and unwillingness to let go. No one could ever challenge it was a brilliant comedy, but years after other, better comedies came along, the Emmys were still smothering Frasier with love at the expense of everything else around it.
It feels almost like television as an industry has handed a baton between two generations, from an established suite of big TV shows and eminent actors to a new wave of edgy comedies and dramas, new actors and new, nuanced performances from familiar faces. But the Emmys, slow to play catch up, hasn't caught on yet.
In the end, however, the Emmys must lift their game or sacrifice their relevance. Time and tide wait for no man. Nor Emmy.
