Television
Emmy Nominations Cross a Few Lines
By BILL CARTERJULY 10, 2014
Continue reading the main story Share This Page
IT'S not just network and cable television. It's everything that's good on video, as far as the Emmys are concerned.
That point was driven home emphatically on Thursday as the nominations for this year's Emmy Awards were announced. The showdown for outstanding drama series spread across cable and pay television services with the list of nominees including some of the most highly praised shows in recent memory. AMC's "Breaking Bad," in its last season, and HBO's "True Detective," in its first, are expected to be strong contenders. They were joined by "Game of Thrones" on HBO, which topped the list with 19 nominations, and "House of Cards" on Netflix, with 13.
"Downton Abbey" and "Mad Men" were the other dramas nominated.
Netflix, the subscription streaming service, was far more a presence than it was last year, racking up 31 nominations, including major nominations in the top series categories for "House of Cards" and "Orange Is the New Black." That was more nominations than some long established networks, including Fox, which had only 18. (That was the Emmy-listed number; Fox pointed out that one of its shows, "Cosmos," received 12 nominations, but they were separated out as Fox/NatGEO, because the series ran on two networks.) On cable, A&E had exactly one nomination.
The strong showing for Netflix was driven by 13 nominations for "House of Cards" and 12 for the newcomer "Orange Is the New Black." Both had multiple entries in the acting categories. Other big winners included two FX mini-series, "Fargo," which racked up the second highest number of nominations (after "Game of Thrones"), with 18, and "American Horror Story," with 17. "Breaking Bad" had 16, as did the HBO movie "The Normal Heart." "True Detective" had 12.
"Saturday Night Live" also scored well, with 14 nominations. It continued to hang in with the late-night talk shows, earning a nomination for outstanding variety series. Also earning nominations in that category were the shows hosted by Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel and Stephen Colbert, who by next year will be network competitors, as well as "The Daily Show With Jon Stewart" and "Real Time With Bill Maher."
The Emmys, scheduled to take place Aug. 25 at the Nokia Theater in Los Angeles, will be telecast on NBC. Seth Meyers, whose late-night talk show is on NBC, will host the ceremony.
In general, broadcasters continued to struggle against the onslaught of strong entries from across the spectrum, with even CBS's "The Good Wife," after a widely praised season, shut out of the best drama- series category. The only broadcaster with a nominee in that super-competitive group was PBS, with "Downton Abbey."
In the comedy-series category, the broadcast networks fared slightly better, with ABC's "Modern Family," which has won an Emmy in each of the last four years, and CBS's "The Big Bang Theory" earning nominations, along with "Veep," "Louie," "Orange Is the New Black" and "Silicon Valley."
CBS led the broadcasters with 47 nominations (dwarfed by the perennial leader HBO with 99), followed by NBC with 46 and ABC with 37. PBS had 34.
In the acting categories, drama was again the stronghold of non-network shows, although Julianna Margulies of "The Good Wife," Kerry Washington of ABC's "Scandal," and Michelle Dockery of "Downton Abbey" did break into the best actress list. Also in the group were the newcomer Lizzy Caplan, widely praised for her performance in Showtime's "Masters of Sex"; Robin Wright of "House of Cards"; and the incumbent winner, Claire Danes from "Homeland," also on Showtime.
Notable omissions included Elisabeth Moss of "Mad Men," Tatiana Maslany for "Orphan Black," Keri Russell for FX's "The Americans" and Vera Farmiga for A&E's "Bates Motel."
On the men's side, it was all nonbroadcast contenders: Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson for "True Detective"; Bryan Cranston for "Breaking Bad"; last year's winner, Jeff Daniels for HBO's "The Newsroom"; Kevin Spacey for "House of Cards"; and one more nomination for Jon Hamm of "Mad Men," who surprisingly has never won this award.
Omissions included Michael Sheen of "Masters of Sex," James Spader of "Blacklist" and Matthew Rhys of "The Americans."
Netflix scored a bit of a surprise nomination for Ricky Gervais in the lead actor category for his comedy "Derek." He was joined in that group by regulars like Jim Parsons of "Big Bang," Louis C.K. of "Louie," Don Cheadle in Showtime's "House of Lies" and Matt LeBlanc in Showtime's "Episodes." A newcomer was William H. Macy of Showtime's "Shameless," which that cable network elbowed into the comedy categories in an attempt to win some nominations.
The category for best actress in a comedy included mostly repeat performers: Amy Poehler of "Parks and Recreation," Melissa McCarthy of "Mike and Molly," Edie Falco of "Nurse Jackie," Julia Louis-Dreyfus of "Veep" and Lena Dunham of "Girls." Again, "Orange" broke into the party, with its star Taylor Schilling.
The strategizing that went into the gaming of categories was evident and in some cases paid off. For instance, "Fargo" and "True Detective" have the exact same format (close-ended series with plans for additional seasons with different casts) but both claimed a host of nominations in separate categories -- mini-series versus drama series -- when they could have canceled each other out, had they gone head to head.
Ms. Falco has been criticized for being listed in the comedy actress group because her performance is so dramatically compelling, but she is at least in a half-hour show, the format of most comedy nominees. "Orange" became the most nominated comedy, even though it's an hour long and includes a good deal of drama.
Fred Armisen, who created and clearly stars in "Portlandia" on IFC, was nominated as a supporting actor.
Then there is the category of outstanding guest actor in a comedy series, which now includes actors who are actually series regulars. Robert Morse in "Mad Men," and Beau Bridges and Allison Janney of "Masters of Sex" all won nominations as "guest" actors.
A version of this article appears in print on July 11, 2014, on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Emmy Nominations Cross a Few Lines. 

'The Good Wife' not good enough as Emmy Award nominations reveal surprise snubs
Video will begin in 5 seconds.
'Game of Thrones' leads Emmy nominees
Fantasy saga Game of Thrones is this year's top Emmy nominee with 19, including best drama, while other critically acclaimed shows such as The Good Wife didn't make the list.
PT0M59S http://www.smh.com.au/action/externalEmbeddedPlayer?id=d-3bqna 620 349 July 11, 2014 - 7:15AM
Critically acclaimed dramas True Detective and Fargo have pushed their way to the top of the Emmy totem pole, but where was Girls? And Brooklyn Nine Nine? And The Good Wife? Why no nominations for James Spader? Or Sofia Vergara?
In true form, the nominations for the 66th annual Emmy Awards were full of surprises and oversights, though it is clear in the key drama, comedy and miniseries categories they are bulging under the weight of the world's best TV programs.
Snubbed by Emmys ...A Julianna Margulies as Alicia Florrick in 'The Good Wife', left. Photo: The Good Wife
This year's list of nominees is notable not for who appears in it, but who does not.
Advertisement
Where is The Good Wife, which delivered what many consider to be one of the finest seasons on record? It is a show which delivers top notch writing, with at least twice the volume of most of the nominated TV drama series: 22 episodes compared to a dozen or less.
Where is Ray Donovan, arguably one of the best cable dramas? And, for that matter, where is a nomination for Liev Schreiber whose performance as the conflicted fixer is one of the most mesmerising on TV? Schreiber's performance is breathtaking.
Nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series ... Jeff Daniels as Will McAvoy in the news drama series, 'The Newsroom'. The HBO series missed out on being nominated for in the drama category. Photo: AP
Where is The Newsroom, Aaron Sorkin's brutal deconstruction of the modern television media?
Where is Homeland, not just a former nominee but a former winner for outstanding drama series in 2012 and outstanding writing in a drama series in 2013. From there to no nomination at all? That's a fall from grace indeed.
Where is The Blacklist and James Spader? Was it excluded because it's a network drama and, for the most part, the key categories of the Emmys are now the province of cable programming? Or simply because there was no room?
Left out ... James Spader as 'Red' Raymond Reddington in 'The Blacklist'. Photo: Channel Seven
And where is The Walking Dead? A decade ago "genre" shows (fantasy, horror, science fiction) never placed in the key categories but in the post-Game of Thrones, post-American Horror Story world nothing could be further from the truth. So how come the world's most successful cable drama is so poorly represented in the nominations?
The two key categories - outstanding drama series and outstanding comedy series - once again proved to be near-impenetrable clubs.
Only one new series managed to push into drama, the HBO crime series True Detective. It will face off against five well established nominees: Breaking Bad, Downton Abbey, Game of Thrones, House of Cards and Mad Men.
Winner ... Emilia Clarke as Daenerys Targaryen in 'Game of Thrones', which received 19 Emmy nominations. Photo: HBO
And only two new series pushed into comedy: HBO's Silicon Valley and Netflix's Orange is the New Black, joining The Big Bang Theory, Louie, Modern Family and Veep.
Of those, Netflix's Orange is the New Black is the most contentious because it is, essentially, a "comedy/drama" which leans towards the latter and is basically pushing its luck with the Emmy's self-submission rules.
Knowing it has no hope of getting traction in the drama category, and that it technically qualifies for either, it has instead been submitted as a comedy where it is up against three-camera half-hour comedies and single-camera cable comedies.
Nominated for best drama series... Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson in 'True Detective'. Photo: HBO
In a similar fashion, the FX drama Fargo technically qualifies as both a drama and a miniseries, and has, for the same reason, elected to submit as the latter, landing in the outstanding miniseries category where the competitive heat is less likely to burn.
There, Fargo is up against American Horror Story: Coven, Bonnie and Clyde, Luther, Treme and The White Queen. And with a slip of the pen its chances go from zilch to very, very real.
True Detective, meanwhile, could have been submitted in either drama series or miniseries - it's story and cast will change for the second season - but HBO elected to submit as a drama series, no doubt confident that the sheer force of the show's film star cast could push it to a win.
Billy Bob Thornton as Lorne Malvo in a scene from 'Fargo'. Thornton was nominated for an Emmy Award for best actor in a miniseries. Photo: AP
Those categorical blips illustrate the biggest challenge an event like the Emmy Awards has in an era where genre boundaries are heavily blurred, and competitive force has never been higher.
They also illustrate the inequity of pitting one hour dramas against half hour sitcoms in the comedy category, or indeed using the short commitment of a miniseries to draw A-list film actors to a TV project and then using their force of personality to upset the apple-cart.
On a program basis, HBO's epic fantasy drama Game of Thrones leads the tally with 19 nominations, plumped up in creative areas such as costume and make-up, but well represented in the drama, actor and actress categories as well.
The rookie drama, Fargo, which became one of the most talked about new series and a breakout hit on the US schedule, sliced off 18 nominations for itself and is the second most nominated program. Not bad for a kid on its first outing to the ball game.
American Horror Story: Coven took out 17 nominations and the HBO drama The Normal Heart a commanding 16 nominations. Coming fifth with 16 nominations was Breaking Bad, the critically exalted cable drama which bowed out last year with a compelling final season.
On a network or channel basis, HBO leads the charge with 99 nominations. Its nearest competitor, CBS, is a long way behind with 47 nominations. Proof, if you needed it, that the Emmy Awards have been overtaken by a wealth of quality cable dramas and comedies in the last few years.
The network NBC was third with 46 nominations, followed by FX (45), ABC (37), PBS (34), Netflix (31), AMC (26), Showtime (24) and Comedy Central (21).
The announcement of the nominations was made by comedian Mindy Kaling and television host Carson Daly at the headquarters of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences in LA's North Hollywood.
The winners will be announced at the Creative Arts Emmys on August 16 and the 66th annual Prime Time Emmy Awards on August 25.
