Jerry Sandusky investigators showed 'inexcusable lack of urgency' in case against ex-Penn State coach: report - NY Daily News
PAT LITTLE/REUTERS Prosecutors and police took up to three years to get the ball rolling in the sex-abuse investigation of Jerry Sandusky (center), a new report finds.
A shoddy investigation enabled ex-Penn State coach Jerry Sandusky to stay on the loose to molest children, says a report released Monday.
But the 339-page report by the Pennsylvania Attorney General's Office found no evidence politics played a role in stalling the 32-month investigation of the pervert coach.
"This was a full and fair review. The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator," said Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane.
Citing the report, Kane blamed the delay in getting Sandusky off the street on a lousy investigation full of "inexplicable delays."
Problems the report cited included:
- Delays in getting documents from Penn State and Sandusky's charity, The Second Mile, which would have revealed a 1998 police report accusing Sandusky of child molestation.
- A bad decision not to search Sandusky's home until two years after the state Attorney General's Office received the case.
The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator.
- A lead prosecutor's recommendation to charge Sandusky in early 2010 was ignored for five months and then denied by superiors who demanded more than one victim to justify the prosecution of an iconic coach.
"The report documents that more investigative work took place in just one month in 2011 than in all of either 2009 or 2010," Kane noted.
While running for attorney general in 2012, Kane implied her predecessor, now Gov. Tom Corbett, may have delayed the investigation for political reasons.
Corbett -- a Republican who in 2011 authorized a $3 million state grant to The Second Mile charity -- denied he interfered in the Sandusky case.
Still, Kane, a Democrat, ordered the review once she took office.
"We found no direct evidence that electoral politics influenced any important decision made in the investigation," said Geoffrey Moulton, a former federal prosecutor who led the probe.
Bradley C Bower/AP Special Deputy Attorney General H. Geoffery Moulton Jr. (right) and Pennsylvania state Attorney General Kathleen Kane (left) ordered the report that exposes 'inexcusable' delays in the Sandusky case.
"In fact, we found nothing ... to indicate (former) Attorney General Corbett made any decisions at all in the investigation," Moulton said.
Corbett issued a statement Monday, saying "this investigation was never about politics."
"The Sandusky investigation was conducted with a single purpose: to ensure justice for the victims and families by taking a child predator off the streets. Nothing more. Nothing less," Corbett said in the statement.
Sandusky, who was legendary Penn State head coach Joe Paterno's defensive mastermind, was convicted in June 2012 of molesting 10 boys over a 15-year span.
The 70-year-old Sandusky was sentenced to up to 60 years in prison.

DN Editorial: Off the record - Philly.com
The 334-page report found delays and lapses in the investigation of Sandusky, but no evidence that Tom Corbett slowed down the investigation in order to better secure the Governor's Office.
The report isn't easy to digest, not just because it delves into the often tedious process of investigation, but because it revisits details of the horrific story of a predator victimizing children.
Frankly, though, we had a hard time getting past the first 10 pages, because of the presence of a huge red flag on the inner workings of some branches of the state government. The investigation,which took 16 months, hit a roadblock when it was discovered that many emails related to the Sandusky investigation had been deleted. During the span of time between Corbett leaving the Attorney General's Office and Kathleen Kane being elected, acting Attorney General William Ryan changed the office's email retention policy from five years to six months. Citing concerns about the cost of storing high volumes of emails, all emails older than six months were deleted, including those pertaining to the Sandusky case. They were recovered only because of the dogged work of one of the attorney general's agents who was able to piece them together, but the process certainly added time to the investigation.
How an acting attorney general was able to make such a significant, and potentially damaging, change in policy bears questioning. (Kane changed it again when she took office, to two years.) The Attorney General's Office is one of the few state offices that do not fall under the jurisdiction of the Governor's Office, and so is able to determine its own documents retention policy. For the rest of state government, the Office of Administration oversees such policies, establishing how long records must be retained. (After expiring, retained documents move to the jurisdiction of the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission.) The Office of Open Records oversees records subject to public scrutiny.
Given the marvels of technology and the ever-evolving method for storing data, shouldn't we be erring on the side of caution when it comes to retaining sensitive documents and records? Just last week, for example, the Daily News highlighted the problems of a nonprofit with ties to state Rep. Louise Bishop. The nonprofit received millions of dollars to create a commercial corridor, but it was unclear exactly how much because many of the contracts had been destroyed under the state's retention policy.
Some of the state's policies and systems are holdovers of another time. The Senate State Government Committee should review the current policies and budgets for retaining the records of the people's business.
