Jerry Sandusky investigators showed 'inexcusable lack of urgency' in case against ex-Penn State coach: report - NY Daily News
PAT LITTLE/REUTERS Prosecutors and police took up to three years to get the ball rolling in the sex-abuse investigation of Jerry Sandusky (center), a new report finds.
A shoddy investigation enabled ex-Penn State coach Jerry Sandusky to stay on the loose to molest children, says a report released Monday.
But the 339-page report by the Pennsylvania Attorney General's Office found no evidence politics played a role in stalling the 32-month investigation of the pervert coach.
"This was a full and fair review. The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator," said Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane.
Citing the report, Kane blamed the delay in getting Sandusky off the street on a lousy investigation full of "inexplicable delays."
Problems the report cited included:
- Delays in getting documents from Penn State and Sandusky's charity, The Second Mile, which would have revealed a 1998 police report accusing Sandusky of child molestation.
- A bad decision not to search Sandusky's home until two years after the state Attorney General's Office received the case.
The facts show an inexcusable lack of urgency in charging and stopping a serial sexual predator.
- A lead prosecutor's recommendation to charge Sandusky in early 2010 was ignored for five months and then denied by superiors who demanded more than one victim to justify the prosecution of an iconic coach.
"The report documents that more investigative work took place in just one month in 2011 than in all of either 2009 or 2010," Kane noted.
While running for attorney general in 2012, Kane implied her predecessor, now Gov. Tom Corbett, may have delayed the investigation for political reasons.
Corbett -- a Republican who in 2011 authorized a $3 million state grant to The Second Mile charity -- denied he interfered in the Sandusky case.
Still, Kane, a Democrat, ordered the review once she took office.
"We found no direct evidence that electoral politics influenced any important decision made in the investigation," said Geoffrey Moulton, a former federal prosecutor who led the probe.
Bradley C Bower/AP Special Deputy Attorney General H. Geoffery Moulton Jr. (right) and Pennsylvania state Attorney General Kathleen Kane (left) ordered the report that exposes 'inexcusable' delays in the Sandusky case.
"In fact, we found nothing ... to indicate (former) Attorney General Corbett made any decisions at all in the investigation," Moulton said.
Corbett issued a statement Monday, saying "this investigation was never about politics."
"The Sandusky investigation was conducted with a single purpose: to ensure justice for the victims and families by taking a child predator off the streets. Nothing more. Nothing less," Corbett said in the statement.
Sandusky, who was legendary Penn State head coach Joe Paterno's defensive mastermind, was convicted in June 2012 of molesting 10 boys over a 15-year span.
The 70-year-old Sandusky was sentenced to up to 60 years in prison.

Serial sexual predator Jerry Sandusky gets to KEEP his $4,900 a month pension while serving minimum of 30 years in prison
Pennsylvania arbiter ruled Jerry Sandusky was not Penn State employee after his 1999 retirement
It was not until 2004 that a state law was expanded to include sexual offenses as cause to pension forfeiture
Sandusky will receive back payments from October 2012 when his benefits were terminated after his conviction
Sandusky is serving 30 to 60 years for molesting 10 boys over 15 years
Jerry Sandusky worked from 1969 through 1999 under legendary longtime Penn State football coach Joe Paterno
By Snejana Farberov
Published: 12:56 GMT, 24 June 2014 | Updated: 21:06 GMT, 24 June 2014
A Pennsylvania arbitrator has ruled that Jerry Sandusky's $4,900-a-month Penn State pension be reinstated, including back payments from October 2012, when his child molestation conviction prompted the state retirement system to end his benefits.
Hearing examiner Michael Bangs wrote in an opinion dated Thursday but made public Monday that it was clear the former assistant football coach was no longer a Penn State employee after his 1999 retirement.
That was critical to the pension dispute because the state Pension Forfeiture Act was expanded five years later, in 2004, to add sexual offenses to the list of crimes that trigger forfeiture.
Scroll down for video
Flush with cash: A Pennsylvania arbitrator has ruled that Jerry Sandusky?s $4,900-a-month Penn State pension be reinstated because he retired from Penn State back in 1999 - more than 12 years before his conviction
'The Pennsylvania forfeiture law is simply not applicable to SERS' members who commit crimes after they have begun receiving their pensions, which is really what SERS is attempting to do in this case,' Bangs wrote. 'The courts simply cannot extend the current law beyond any rational interpretation of its current form.'
Both Sandusky and the State Employees' Retirement System can respond to the recommendation, after which the retirement system board will decide whether the pension should be reinstated. That could occur this fall, and if Sandusky loses he could appeal to state courts.
Pamela Hile, a spokeswoman for SERS, said Bangs' recommendation will go to the agency board for a final determination in 'mid-to-late fall.'
If the board accepts Bangs' recommendation, Sandusky's Penn State pension would be reinstated to Oct. 9, 2012, when he and his wife, Dottie,lost the $4,900-a-month state benefit.
Sandusky, who retired in June 30, 1999, as Penn State's defensive coordinator, was convicted in 2012 of molesting 10 boys over 15 years, some in the football team's showers on campus.
Bangs said that even though Penn State provided Sandusky with an office and telephone after his retirement, he was not a 'school employee.' He said there was no formal contract or agreement between him and the university.
Guilty: Former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky, walks with his wife Dottie Sandusky into the Centre County Courthouse, on June 22, 2012 in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania
Sandusky's lawyer, Chuck Benjamin, said Monday he was pleased with the ruling, which accepted Benjamin's argument that a report by former FBI director Louis Freeh was incorrect when it claimed Sandusky received 71 post-retirement payments from Penn State.
In fact there were just a handful, and half were travel reimbursements, Benjamin said.
'The unfortunate thing here is that SERS acted on the mistaken belief that the Freeh report was correct when the undisputed evidence showed it wasn't correct,' Benjamin said.
Sandusky testified in January on the pension issue by video link from a state prison in southwestern Pennsylvania. He was the only witness his lawyers called.
His pension benefits include a 50 per cent survivor's annuity for Dottie Sandusky.
The 70-year-old Sandusky is serving a 30- to 60-year state prison sentence after being convicted two years ago of sexual abuse of 10 boys.
In a separate development on Monday, Pennsylvania's attorney general released a highly anticipated review of the Sandusky prosecution but found no evidence of political interference by Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett during his time as attorney general.
The report, however, has revealed three years of 'inexplicable delays' to prosecute the former Penn State football coach on child abuse charges.
The pedophile's home was not searched and the report notes that it took a full year, from March 2009 until March 2010, for the office to recommend charging Sandusky when 'Victim 1' came forward.
Not caught soon enough: Jerry Sandusky in Greene Sate Prison where is serving life in jail for sexually molesting 10 boys over 15-years
It took more 18 months before Sandusky was arrested because veteran prosecutor Jonelle Eshbach was overruled from arresting her because her supervisors believed that the testimony of one victim would be 'insufficient against a community icon like Sandusky'.
The report, commissioned by Attorney General Kathleen Kane and written by former federal prosecutor Geoff Moulton, blamed a three-year time lapse in filing charges on communication problems, an expungement of a 1998 complaint about the former Penn State coach and a failure to take certain investigative steps early on.
Two days after Tom Corbett was elected governor in November 2010, the Centre County prosecutor received an anonymous tip directing investigators to assistant football coach Mike McQueary, whose testimony would eventually help convict Sandusky.
Special Deputy Attorney General H. Geoffery Moulton Jr. speaks at a news conference as Pennsylvania state Attorney General Kathleen Kane, left, listens, as the results are released of a probe into the Jerry Sandusky child molestation investigation on Monday, June 23
The investigation picked up steam after that, and authorities subpoenaed key figures at Penn State, including Paterno, vice president Gary Schultz and athletic director Tim Curley.
Additional victims were identified, and on June 21, 2011, Sandusky's home was searched, producing photos and typewritten lists of children who participated in events at Sandusky's charity, The Second Mile, with some names highlighted.
The university eventually accepted a set of penalties from the NCAA over its handling of the matter, including a four-year bowl ban, a temporary reduction in football scholarships, the loss of 112 wins from Paterno's later years and a $60 million fine.
