Bosh, Wade and Deng help Heat rebound from LeBron return to Cleveland | Hunter Felt | Sport | theguardian.com
It didn't take long for the Miami Heat to rebound. On Friday night, hours after LeBron James confirmed he was leaving to return to the Cleveland Cavaliers, the Heat re-signed forward Chris Bosh to a contract of five years and $118m. A few days later, they completed a deal to re-sign a self-proclaimed Heat lifer. Dwyane Wade announced it on Instagram.
While the loss of James means they may no longer be the odds-on favorites to win the NBA Finals, as they have been in recent seasons, re-signing two of the Big Three and adding Luol Deng ensures that the Heat will at least be a playoff threat in the Eastern Conference.
Because of the size and timing of Bosh's new contract, it felt like something of a panic move, one the Heat could regret around years four and five when Bosh will be far from his peak. Consider this factoid:
With a $20.64M first-year salary, next season Chris Bosh will earn more than Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili & Kawhi Leonard COMBINED (!!)
-- Numbers Never Lie (@ESPN_Numbers) July 11, 2014
It is, however, hard not to be happy for Bosh. He began his career as the face of the Toronto Raptors. When he became a free agent for the first time, in 2010, he could have demanded a lucrative contract from several teams. Instead, he was willing to take a pay cut to join the Heat and become the third option behind James and Wade, sacrificing his individual stats for the potential to win championships.
With this in mind, his new deal feels like Miami paying for past results, rewarding Bosh for his often overlooked contributions during the Heat's four-season reign on top of the East. Although one assumes Bosh would have preferred to have James alongside him, this is an opportunity to quash his "sidekick's sidekick" reputation. Unless Heat president Pat Riley pulls off some sort of miracle, which he has done in the past, it looks like Bosh will be the team's best player in the upcoming season.
Riley wasn't bidding against himself. Reportedly, the Houston Rockets were also willing to offer Bosh a maximum contrac, hoping they could create a West Coast Big Three of their own by teaming him up with center Dwight Howard and scorer James Harden. Houston even made moves to clear up the necessary cap space, sending Jeremy Lin to the Los Angeles Lakers and trading Omer Asik to the New Orleans Pelicans. With Bosh off the market, the Rockets ended up settling on Trevor Ariza as their big-time free agent, a somewhat deflating turn of events for the Houston front office.
With Bosh back in the fold, it was all but inevitable that Miami would re-sign Wade, who also opted out of his contract earlier in the offseason. Wade, who gathered interest from the Chicago Bulls, has played his entire pro career for Miami, and was NBA Finals MVP when the Heat won their first championship, in 2006. He would be far more valuable to the Heat than to any other franchise, and both sides knew it. Wade reportedly signed a two-year and $31.1m deal, taking a fairly significant cut.
The Heat did not stand pat after locking up Bosh and Wade. On Tuesday they finalized a two-year, $20m contract with Great Britain's Luol Deng, formerly of the Bulls and Cavaliers, who will now presumably be the team's third option. While Bosh, Wade and Deng may not be a Big Three, at the very least they will be make up a Somewhat Substantial Three. The Heat also brought back struggling point guard Mario Chalmers, straight off one of the worst performances in NBA Finals history, along with Chris "Birdman" Andersen.
Great Britain's Luol Deng in action for the Chicago Bulls.
Most of these players would not be returning to Miami if the Heat had committed to a full rebuilding, like the Boston Celtics are doing and like what the Lakers really ought to be doing. The Bosh signing partly acted as a notice to the rest of the league that Miami won't be tanking for draft picks any time soon. The Heat may not be a championship-caliber team without LeBron James, but Riley and the front office clearly believe they can still be competitive.
None of these moves were exactly big splashes, but there may not have been a big splash that the Heat could have made once James left, especially considering how much money and cap space they have committed to Bosh. It's not a disastrous haul by any means, but these moves make it clear that without the best player on the planet, the Heat are no longer the NBA's marquee team. They are just a very good one. Welcome to the NBA's new normal.

Keeping Dwyane Wade keeps Miami Heat competitive
Miami Heat salvaged something in free agency by resiging Dwyane Wade.(Photo: Steve Mitchell-USA TODAY Sports)
Losing LeBron James was devastating for the Miami Heat, but it could have been far worse.
By reaching a two-year deal with guard Dwyane Wade on Tuesday, Miami was able to keep other key players, and add new ones to remain competitive.
The Heat also have retained forward Chris Bosh, reached a deal with free-agent forward Luol Deng and signed forwards Josh McRoberts and Danny Granger to contracts. They also plan to re-sign guard Mario Chalmers and forward-center Chris Andersen, and Udonis Haslem is another player Miami is trying to keep.
BOSH: Chris Bosh gets max deal with Miami
DENG: Heat add Luol Deng to small forward position
This could be the Heat's starting lineup: Chalmers, Wade, Deng, McRoberts and Bosh. Andersen, Granger and Norris Cole could be reserves. With that, Miami likely is still a playoff team and could be one of the top four teams in the Eastern Conference.
With James gone, there will be more responsibility on Wade to contribute on both ends of the floor. Miami might not be able give Wade the same number of games off as last season, when he played in 54. Monitoring Wade's minutes while getting maximum production will be coach Erik Spoelstra's challenge.
USA Today Sports NBA writers Sam Amick and Jeff Zillgitt break down free agency and discover that the Eastern Conference has gotten stronger.
After a run of four consecutive NBA Finals berths that produced two titles, Wade was disappointed James left for the Cleveland Cavaliers, but he understood.
"LeBron made the right decision for himself and his family because home is where your heart is," he said in a statement.
By re-signing with the Heat, Wade showed that his home and heart are in Miami. Having spent each of his 11 NBA seasons with the Heat, he might end up as one of the few players of his generation to spend an entire career with one team.
Wade posted a photo on Instagram of himself in a Heat warmup suit during the national anthem and wrote "Home is where the heart is. My Home, My City, My House. .. #HeatLifer."
Wade showed in 2010 what winning in Miami meant to him when he gave up money to make sure James and Bosh could join the team. He sacrificed again in this deal, leaving significant money on the table so the Heat could re-tool. He had two years and $42million remaining on his contract but opted out when free agency began.
Terms of the new deal were not released, but The Associated Press reported it is for two years, which would allow Wade to have potentially higher paydays after the 2014-15 and 2015-16 seasons. It also gives the Heat some financial flexibility.
"Dwyane has been the franchise cornerstone for this team since the day he arrived 11 years ago," Heat President Pat Riley said in a statement. "He has shown his commitment to the Heat many times over the course of his career and has always been willing to sacrifice in order to help build this team into a champion. This time is no different."
