For Tony Gwynn, ban tobacco in baseball
June 17, 2014 10:06PM
SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 14: Tony Gwynn #19 of the San Diego Padres bats during the 63rd MLB All-Star game against the American League at Jack Murphy Stadium on Tuesday, July 14, 1992 in San Diego, California. (Photo by MLB Photos via Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Tony Gwynn
storyidforme: 67953519
tmspicid: 24188334
fileheaderid: 11948890
Updated: June 18, 2014 2:19AM
The tobacco tin may be carefully stowed away, but when Major League Baseball players head out to the field there's no mistaking a cheek bulging with chaw.
In honor of Tony Gwynn, it's time to end the charade.
MLB players can honor Gwynn -- a Hall-of-Fame baseball player and long-time snuff user who died Monday at age 54 after battling salivary gland cancer -- by agreeing to ban all smokeless tobacco products on the field.
MLB currently requires players only to keep the tins out of sight during play and prohibits dipping or chewing during interviews.
What a joke.
To make a real impact -- to set an example for the millions of kids and young adults who watch professional baseball and idolize ball players -- the league should do everything it can to rid itself of this filthy and deadly habit.
After decades of smokeless tobacco use, Gwynn, a beloved player, was diagnosed with cancer on the right side of his face, the spot where for years he had tucked a dip of finely ground tobacco between his cheek and gum.
Gwynn was convinced that snuff was the culprit, sure that he was among the estimated 75 percent of people diagnosed with oral cancer at age 50 who have been tobacco users. In 2014, more than 43,000 people in the U.S. are expected to be diagnosed with oral cancer, the eighth year that the rate has increased for these particularly deadly cancers, according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
As an institution, baseball has taken steps to shed chewing tobacco from its deeply entrenched place in its culture. Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball and also in the minor leagues, though of course it's still used. Despite a decline in youth smokeless tobacco use from 1997 to 2003, 12.8 percent of U.S. high school boys were smokeless tobacco users in 2011 -- a 16 percent increase from 2003, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.
MLB sought to have it banned on the field in 2011, only to be thwarted by the players association. The compromise was to keep it out of view of fans and to prohibit teams from providing tobacco products to players, important steps but far from adequate.
Given chewing tobacco's larger than life place in baseball culture, a ban on the field seems the best next step.
No one expects everyone to successfully quit. This stuff is addictive. And no one expects no young player to take it up. A 1999 survey published in the Journal of Athletic Training found that nearly one-third of rookies in the major leagues were already regular smokeless tobacco users. More than two-thirds had tried smokeless tobacco. Adults make choices, good ones and poor ones, and that's their business.
But setting the tone from the top that chewing tobacco isn't welcome on major league ball fields can send a powerful message.
Gwynn got the ball rolling by speaking honestly about what he believed caused his illness.
"Gwynn did something very important; he said early on in his diagnosis that he'd used chewing tobacco and was 99 percent sure that's how he got it," said Brian Hill, founder of the Oral Cancer Foundation and an oral cancer survivor. "He was very open about it.
"When our heroes show us they're vulnerable," Hill predicted, "they change the world."
In Gwynn's honor, we can only hope.

Tony Gwynn's death raises issue of smokeless tobacco use in high schools, colleges - Los Angeles Times
For the 20 years he was a major league player, Tony Gwynn said he tucked a dip of snuff on the right side of his mouth, between his cheek and gum.
Because he used snuff, which is finely ground tobacco, it wasn't as readily apparent as it would have been had he used leaf tobacco, which is chewed and creates a large, telltale bulge.
The bulge came later -- the result of surgical procedures the Hall of Fame outfielder endured in an effort to remove cancerous growths in that cheek.
Gwynn, 54, died Monday after years of battling salivary gland cancer. His passing shook up players and coaches at all levels, with some of them wondering whether Gwynn's death would help motivate baseball's many constituencies to sever age-old ties with smokeless tobacco.
"It's a huge thing in the baseball world," UCLA outfielder Ty Moore said in a phone interview. "I'm here in the Cape Cod League, and some players from the South do it. When you ask an outsider about baseball, they think of [sunflower] seeds and tobacco. It's part of the culture."
Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball, and also in the minor leagues.
Major League Baseball sought to ban tobacco use in 2011, but the proposal was rejected by the players. Instead, rules were enacted to clean up appearances. Teams are prohibited from providing tobacco products to players and players are not allowed to have tobacco tins in their uniform pockets or appear in televised interviews while smoking, dipping or chewing. A player can be fined for violating those rules.
Still, tobacco products are commonly used by ballplayers throughout the big leagues. And, despite the proclaimed bans, minor league, college and high school players are still using.
The use of smokeless tobacco by high school males was 11.2% in 2012, according to a survey by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
"I think it's a major problem at the high school level," said Brett Kay, coach at San Juan Capistrano JSerra High. "You think you're invincible. I'm a former chewer. You think it can't happen to you.
"These high school kids think it's cool. They don't realize smokeless tobacco is worse than a regular cigarette. It's a highly addictive substance. There's a lot of excuses and reasons why kids these days are doing it."
Smokeless tobacco increases the risk of gum disease and several forms of oral cancer, according to the American Cancer Society. It also provides a higher dose of addictive nicotine than a cigarette, according to research by the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
One prominent area high school coach said he had health issues related to his use of smokeless tobacco. His message to his players: Be smart, and don't do as I do.
"We tell everyone, 'Do not use, stay off it, quit,' " said the coach, who agreed to speak on the topic only if he remained anonymous.
Kay said he briefly stopped chewing tobacco between his high school and college playing days after a man came to his school with "half his face gone" after surgery from cancer. But after an 0-for-4 day at the plate during a college game, he remembers starting up again.
"It was a deterrent for a while, and then I was back at it," he said. "Education is key and getting to them early. It only takes one time for that freshman to be hooked."
Matt Mowry, coach of City Section Division I champion Lake Balboa Birmingham High, said he used chewing tobacco during his playing days in the early 1990s.
"It was tough to enforce the ban and tough to stop myself," he said. "Even though you know the risks, it's so ingrained in baseball that it's kind of accepted. One day I just said, 'If I don't stop now, I will never be able to stop.' "
Doctors and researchers such as Lee Westmaas say they have grown increasingly concerned about the use of smokeless tobacco among young people. They see a particular trend associated with baseball, because chewing tobacco has a long history with the sport.
"Kids look up to baseball heroes," said Westmaas, director of Tobacco Control Research for the American Cancer Society. "They're modeling the behavior."
Medical experts also worry that the public sees smokeless tobacco as a healthier alternative to cigarettes because it's less harmful to the lungs. But there are other risks that come from contact with the lips, gums, cheeks and throat.
"We do know that with using oral smokeless tobacco or chewing tobacco, there is about a tenfold increase in the risk of oral cancers," said Alex Markarian, an assistant professor of otolaryngology and head and neck surgery at USC's Keck School of Medicine.
Greg Moore, Cal State Northridge's first-year coach, constantly speaks with his players about the decisions they must make. Whether to use tobacco, alcohol or drugs are among them.
"We explain to them that life is about choices," he said, "but it's also about not being held captive by a substance."
USC Coach Dan Hubbs said he hoped increased awareness about the risk of using tobacco would have an impact on younger players.
"As coaches, the best thing we can do is constantly educate them about," he said. "It's a terrible thing when anyone passes away, and even worse when it could be prevented. Hopefully, we can use this as a teaching moment and get everyone to understand the dangers of it."
Ty Moore said he wasn't sure whether Gwynn's death would have any effect on players who chew or dip tobacco. For some players, it's already a habit.
"Some guys I've met can't play without it," he said.
Josh Lienhard, baseball coach at Woodland Hills El Camino Real High, said it's difficult to dissuade young players from trying smokeless tobacco when they see major league players on TV "with big 'ol things in their mouth."
But he had hope.
"Maybe major leaguers will quit because of it," he said, "and help out the younger generation."
Staff writer David Wharton contributed to this article.
