For Tony Gwynn, ban tobacco in baseball
June 17, 2014 10:06PM
SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 14: Tony Gwynn #19 of the San Diego Padres bats during the 63rd MLB All-Star game against the American League at Jack Murphy Stadium on Tuesday, July 14, 1992 in San Diego, California. (Photo by MLB Photos via Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Tony Gwynn
storyidforme: 67953519
tmspicid: 24188334
fileheaderid: 11948890
Updated: June 18, 2014 2:19AM
The tobacco tin may be carefully stowed away, but when Major League Baseball players head out to the field there's no mistaking a cheek bulging with chaw.
In honor of Tony Gwynn, it's time to end the charade.
MLB players can honor Gwynn -- a Hall-of-Fame baseball player and long-time snuff user who died Monday at age 54 after battling salivary gland cancer -- by agreeing to ban all smokeless tobacco products on the field.
MLB currently requires players only to keep the tins out of sight during play and prohibits dipping or chewing during interviews.
What a joke.
To make a real impact -- to set an example for the millions of kids and young adults who watch professional baseball and idolize ball players -- the league should do everything it can to rid itself of this filthy and deadly habit.
After decades of smokeless tobacco use, Gwynn, a beloved player, was diagnosed with cancer on the right side of his face, the spot where for years he had tucked a dip of finely ground tobacco between his cheek and gum.
Gwynn was convinced that snuff was the culprit, sure that he was among the estimated 75 percent of people diagnosed with oral cancer at age 50 who have been tobacco users. In 2014, more than 43,000 people in the U.S. are expected to be diagnosed with oral cancer, the eighth year that the rate has increased for these particularly deadly cancers, according to the Oral Cancer Foundation.
As an institution, baseball has taken steps to shed chewing tobacco from its deeply entrenched place in its culture. Smokeless tobacco is prohibited in high school and college baseball and also in the minor leagues, though of course it's still used. Despite a decline in youth smokeless tobacco use from 1997 to 2003, 12.8 percent of U.S. high school boys were smokeless tobacco users in 2011 -- a 16 percent increase from 2003, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.
MLB sought to have it banned on the field in 2011, only to be thwarted by the players association. The compromise was to keep it out of view of fans and to prohibit teams from providing tobacco products to players, important steps but far from adequate.
Given chewing tobacco's larger than life place in baseball culture, a ban on the field seems the best next step.
No one expects everyone to successfully quit. This stuff is addictive. And no one expects no young player to take it up. A 1999 survey published in the Journal of Athletic Training found that nearly one-third of rookies in the major leagues were already regular smokeless tobacco users. More than two-thirds had tried smokeless tobacco. Adults make choices, good ones and poor ones, and that's their business.
But setting the tone from the top that chewing tobacco isn't welcome on major league ball fields can send a powerful message.
Gwynn got the ball rolling by speaking honestly about what he believed caused his illness.
"Gwynn did something very important; he said early on in his diagnosis that he'd used chewing tobacco and was 99 percent sure that's how he got it," said Brian Hill, founder of the Oral Cancer Foundation and an oral cancer survivor. "He was very open about it.
"When our heroes show us they're vulnerable," Hill predicted, "they change the world."
In Gwynn's honor, we can only hope.

Phillies' Sandberg, Bowa remember Tony Gwynn as legendary hitter, game ambassador | FOX Sports on MSN
Updated JUN 16, 2014 8:43p ET
ATLANTA -- The Philadelphia Phillies' locker room was full of heavy hearts on Monday, after the club learned of the death of Hall of Famer Tony Gwynn -- the father of Phillies outfielder Tony Gwynn Jr.
While the team didn't release a formal statement regarding the older Gwynn -- a 20-year mainstay of the San Diego Padres (his only MLB franchise) and a member of the 3,000 Hit Club (3,141, to be exact) -- Phillies skipper Ryne Sandberg and bench coach Larry Bowa spoke to reporters before Monday's game against the Braves.
"It's a sad day in baseball," said Sandberg, a Hall of Fame second baseman with the Chicago Cubs (1981-97). "Tony Gwynn was a guy of my era. (Back) in the day when players wanted to see batting averages and see how they stacked up, they would look in the sports pages; and for eight years, (Gwynn) was the guy at the top everyone was chasing. He set the standard.
"He was a guy I paid attention to on what he was doing," continued Sandberg about the senior Gwynn, a 15-time All-Star and lifetime .338 hitting (five seasons of 200-plus hits). "He was one of the few players who I would go out and watch take batting practice, just to see the swing and the results. It's a big loss to baseball."
Earlier in the day, Sandberg had a quick text exchange with the younger Gwynn (batting .155 in 52 games with Philly), who is currently on the West Coast with his family (MLB bereavement leave).
Tony Gwynn Sr., who died at age 54, had been a fixture with California sports since the 1970s, starring as a point guard/outfielder for San Diego State University during the late 70s/early 80s.
Gwynn, the San Diego State baseball coach before taking medical leave in March (cancer treatments), was subsequently drafted by the San Diego Padres (MLB) and NBA's San Diego Clippers in the same year -- 1981 -- but ultimately chose the path of least resistance to the pros ... with the Padres.
The two-sport star certainly made the correct choice. For the strike-halted season of 1994, Gwynn (two World Series appearances -- 1984, 1998) was batting a cool .394 when league play stopped for good on Aug. 12 -- reluctantly clinching the highest seasonal batting average in the modern era (minimum 400 at-bats).
(Hall of Famer Ted Williams batted .406 with the Boston Red Sox in 1941; and Royals third baseman George Brett -- also a Hall of Famer -- rolled for .390 in 1980.)
Bowa, the elder Gwynn's third big-league manager in San Diego (1987-88), has been a long-standing supporter of his former player, perpetually amazed by Gwynn's special skill set with the bat.
"He could hit a ball anywhere wanted to. Between third and short, pull it, up the middle. One of the hardest guys ever to defend; and he had a lot of speed," recalled Bowa. "What I didn't know is he was a great basketball player. He always used to talk about how he could dunk. I'd say, Get out of here!
"We all know he was a great player, but he was a great human being."
Bowa then shared an interesting comparison amongst Gwynn, all-time hit king Pete Rose (4,256 hits) and Hall of Famer Rod Carew (3,053 hits, .328 career batting average):
"(Gwynn's) abilities were off the charts. He could recognize a pitch as soon as it left a pitcher's hand. Not too many guys could do that -- Pete (Rose), maybe Rod Carew. He studied it, though. He had video before (it was specialized)," gushed Bowa.
"If (Gwynn) had the video they have now, he might have hit .450. He used to take the video back to his room at the hotel. It wasn't as good as it is now. We were like, 'What is he doing?' He was studying. You didn't have that (at the time), and he used it to his advantage.
"If he had the information now, I think he would have hit .400. I really do."
(Thanks to CSN Philly for helping assemble this report.)
