Race of Attrition Continues, Even on a Rest Day
Tour de France 2014: Vincenzo Nibali Sizes Up Remaining Competition
Photo
Vincenzo Nibali, who rides for Astana, held the traditional race leader's rest day news conference on Tuesday. Credit Christian Hartmann/Reuters
BESANCON, France -- Short of its halfway point, this year's unusually cruel Tour de France has raised several questions. Did the organizers go too far in their attempt to liven up the first week of the race with difficult routes? Are riders taking excessive risks? And, above all, with Chris Froome and Alberto Contador removed by crashes, can anyone beat Vincenzo Nibali?
The battered, rain-soaked and often-bandaged bodies of the 180 riders who remain in the Tour were given a rest day Tuesday. Appropriately for an event that is all about time, it came in France's watchmaking capital. Their numbers still fell to 179, though, when the Swiss rider Fabian Cancellara, a strong time trialist and expert at springtime one-day races, decided to head home, his team said, to rest and prepare for the road world championships in September.
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage
His departure, along with those of Andy Schleck and Danny van Poppel, leaves the team sponsored by Trek, the American bicycle maker, with only six riders.
Nibali, who rides for Astana, held the traditional race leader's rest-day news conference, although in a hotel parking lot and 45 minutes later than its scheduled start time. Nibali played down his favorite status.
"You should never underestimate anyone," he said, adding that he lost the Vuelta a Espana last year to the American Chris Horner largely by neglecting to take that approach.
High on Nibali's list of worries are Richie Porte of Australia, Froome's replacement as leader of the Sky team, who is in second place, 2 minutes 23 seconds back, and Alejandro Valverde of Spain, the leader of Movistar, who is third.
But Nibali's list did not stop there. Like many, he acknowledged that an unusually large number of French riders were well positioned this year, something France has not seen for a long time. He mentioned Romain Bardet, who is fourth and rides for the aggressive Ag2r-La Mondiale team, and Thibaut Pinot of the FDJ.fr team.
If Nibali wins the Tour, he will be first Italian victor since Marco Pantani in 1998. Pantani died from a cocaine overdose a decade ago amid doping allegations. Nibali said he would give Pantani's mother a yellow jersey if he succeeded in following up on her son's win.
With a victory at the Tour, Nibali would also join the five other riders, among them Contador, who have won the national tours of France, Italy and Spain, cycling's most rarefied hat trick.
Nibali's victory at the Giro d'Italia last year has parallels to the current Tour de France. The Italian race was plagued by cold and wet weather, and two of its favorites, the defending champion Ryder Hesjedal and the Tour winner Bradley Wiggins, quit the race. But Nibali decisively won a time trail and a mountain stage on his way to the title.
There has never been evidence linking Nibali to doping, but like all successful cyclists in the 21st century, he cannot escape suspicion, even if a good case can be made that he is simply a talented athlete who has carefully honed his skills.
Eyebrows sometimes are raised because of the seemingly effortless manner in which Nibali races during difficult moments, a feat he demonstrated again Monday when he won his second stage of this year's Tour.
Then there is his association with the Astana team. It is managed by Alexander Vinokourov, who was suspended for two years after winning a time trial at the 2007 Tour de France and then failing a blood doping test.
Postmortems on Contador's crash, which broke his leg and came on a descent, continued Tuesday. Unlike many good climbers, Contador is also as skilled going downhill. He trains on wet days to hone his descents.
Speaking with Agence France-Presse, he said he had taken his hands off the handlebars to reach for an energy bar in his back pocket when his front wheel hit a pothole. Along Monday's route, there were several small potholes and larger sinkholes on a number of descents. Most were ineffectually marked with orange spray paint that all but faded away in the fog and the on-and-off rain.
Riders who found the Tour's first week a strain are probably not looking forward to the big mountains that come this week. It is an indication of last week's difficultly that Wednesday's stage, which features rolling terrain, four rated climbs and more than 116 miles of riding, is widely seen as comparatively easy.
A version of this article appears in print on July 16, 2014, on page B17 of the New York edition with the headline: The Tour of Attrition Continues, Even on a Rest Day. Order Reprints|Today's Paper|Subscribe
