Domestic Spying Revelation Could Be Devastating For The Obama White House


The Obama administration will be bracing itself for a torrent of hostile questions this morning following the apparent revelation that the National Security Agency has been data-mining the phone records of tens of millions of ordinary Americans.
 
Not to be confused with eaves-dropping, or bugging the phones of those suspected of conspiring to commit a terrorist or criminal offence, the top secret court order published by The Guardian appears to show that the NSA has been trawling the anonymous 'metadata' of potentially billions of phone-calls.
 
On the one hand, Americans might take comfort that the 'internals' of their phone conversations - ie the voices themselves - are not being routinely recorded, but on the other, it seems from this leak that potentially everyone with a phone is under some form of surveillance in the USA.
 
Studies have shown that while anonymous, the 'metadata' - records of location data, call duration, unique identifiers - can provide a surprising amount of information, surprisingly quickly when zeroed in on by investigators.
 
For Mr Obama- a president who prided himself on his liberal credentials - this leak is a potentially devastating revelation since it exposes him to attack on two fronts - from both the libertarian Right and the liberal Left.
 
Already the administration has been hammered over its aggressive prosecution of leakers, including what appeared to be an attempt to criminalise a Fox News journalist, James Rosen, for working a source to obtain a leak from the State Department about North Korea.
 
That story caused the New York Times - usually a reliable friend of the Obama administration - to write a seething editorial accusing the Department of Justice of over-reaching, and using its powers to send a "chilling" message to the media.
 
It is not clear how wide the NSA data-mining project goes, it's effectiveness as a counter-terrorism tool in identifying potential terrorist or criminal cells or - indeed - whether it has been used for any other purposes.
 
It appears from previous reports that the NSA's data-mining operation is not new, and has long been suspected - but this is the first clear-cut proof, in the shape of a highly unusual leak from the secretive Foreign Intelligence Service Court (Fisa), that the practice is occurring.
 
A report in USA Today newspaper from 2006, quoting anonymous intelligence officials, alleged that the NSA been "secretly collecting the phone call records of tens of millions of Americans" and that the agency was using the data to "analyze calling patterns in an effort to detect terrorist activity".
 
Since September 11 and the passing of the 2001 Patriot Act, the American public has accepted a great deal of inconvenience and intrusion in the name of national security. The publication of this court order will re-open the debate on how far the security services' writ should run.
 
Politically, the difficulty for Mr Obama is that even if the NSA is actually doing nothing different than it did for George W Bush, the American public - particularly on the liberal left - had believed that Mr Obama's administration represented a fundamental departure from the excesses of the Bush years.
 
Now, with the continued debate over the use of drones, the failure to close Guantanamo, the ultra-aggressive prosecution of leaks even to the point, perhaps, of muzzling a free press - the questions from the public and the media are starting to weigh down on the Obama White House.
 
Already last night, within hours of publication, civil liberties groups who have long warned about the extent of secret surveillance, were jumping on the revelations.
 
"This confirms what we had long suspected," says Cindy Cohn, an attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), a civil liberties organization that has accused the government of operating a secret dragnet surveillance program told the Washington Post.
 
"I don't think Congress thought it was authorizing dragnet surveillance" when it passed the Patriot Act, Ms Cohn said, "I don't think Americans think that's OK. I would be shocked if the majority of Congressmen thought it's okay." Over the next few days and weeks, expect a fierce and polarizing debate over just what Americans do feel is acceptable, in the name of their national security.



Obama on NSA surveillance scandal: nobody is listening to your phone calls      
      
Barack Obama promised the American people "nobody is listening to your telephone calls" as he faced deepening questions over whether he had allowed the US surveillance state to run out of control.       
      
By Raf Sanchez, Washington and Philip Sherwell in New York      
8:44PM BST 07 Jun 2013      
      
Speaking on the eve of a major US-China summit in California, Mr Obama was forced to push back against accusations that his administration had expanded on Bush-era surveillance systems that he had once campaigned against.       
      
Under intense fire from both the liberal Left and libertarian Right for trampling on Constitutional freedoms, the president defended secret programmes which collect data on hundreds of millions of US phone calls and harvest huge amounts of online information about foreigners.       
      
"In the abstract you can complain about Big Brother or how this is a potential programme run amok, but when you actually look at the details I think we've struck the right balance," he said, insisting they were vital in the fight against terrorism.      
  
The statement was his first public comment since details of the two classified National Security Agency programmes were leaked to The Washington Post and the Guardian, sparking fury from civil liberties advocates.   
  
Mr Obama, who as a candidate accused George W Bush of making a "false choice" between liberty and security, found himself accused of carrying on a "fourth Bush term" after embracing the same surveillance apparatus designed by his predecessor.   
  
One operation appears to collect details on the time, length and location of every phone call made within the United States, although it has not been suggested that this records what was actually said.   
  
The second, known as Prism, reportedly allows the NSA direct access to the internal networks of Facebook, Google and seven other internet giants.   
  
Mr Obama said that the emails, photographs, videos and other information from hi-tech and internet companies could only be gathered on foreigners and not on US citizens, nor anyone living in the US.   
  
The disclosure left open the possibility that British Facebook, Gmail and Skype accounts may be among those being monitored by the secretive US intelligence agency, heightening fears that British intelligence officials may be passed information on UK nationals that they would not themselves be empowered to obtain.   
  
Questions over US spying threaten to overshadow Mr Obama's two days of meetings with Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, at which the US leader was expected to prioritise the issue of Chinese hacking against America during the summit.   
  
A fresh leak to the Guardian on Friday evening disclosed a secret presidential memorandum in which Mr Obama ordered intelligence agencies to create a list of potential targets for cyber-attacks.   
  
Although Mr Obama's use of cyber-warfare against Iran is well-documented, the 18-page document offers more detail on what it refers to as "Offensive Cyber Effects Operations".   
  
The document says cyber capabilities allow the US to strike with "little or no warning to the adversary or target and with potential effects ranging from subtle to severely damaging".   
  
Not far from where the two presidents were to meet in California's Palm Springs, the technology companies of Silicon Valley protested that they knew nothing about the Prism programme and denied the government was able to access their networks.   
  
"We do not provide any government organisation with direct access to Facebook servers," a Facebook spokesman said, adding that the company was unaware of Prism until news reports on Thursday. Google, Apple and others released similar statements.   
  
That account runs contrary to claims in a leaked NSA "slideshow" which suggested that programme was run with the "assistance of communications providers in the US".   
  
The slideshow documents how the companies, which account for most of the world's online communications, one by one became "providers" of information. Microsoft was the first to join in 2007 and the most recent was Apple in 2012.   
  
It was clear from the presentation that the NSA was extremely sensitive about protecting the companies that it saw as partners, fearing that they would withdraw if their role was made public.   
  
"98 per cent of Prism production is based on Yahoo, Google and Microsoft; we need to make sure we don't harm these sources," the slide show's author wrote.   
  
The disclosure of the classified phone tracking and the Prism programmes over the course of two days is likely to spark a frantic US government hunt for the leakers.   
  
The Washington Post described its source as "a career intelligence officer" who was horrified at the scale of domestic surveillance. The Department of Justice refused to say whether the FBI had initiated a criminal investigation into the leak of information about the NSA's programmes.   
  
Despite Mr Obama's repeated claims to run "the most transparent administration in history", his term in office has seen six prosecutions brought against suspected leakers - twice as many as all previous presidents combined.   
  
Fresh revelations about the scale of America's surveillance state divided both the Democratic and Republican parties in Congress.   
  
Many conservative Republicans found themselves in the unusual position of rushing to Mr Obama's defence, praising the intelligence gathering as a necessary step in the fight against terrorism.   
  
However, the mass collection of phone records was criticised by Jim Sensenbrenner, a Republican congressman who helped write the Patriot Act, the sweeping anti-terror legislation passed in the wake of the September 11 attacks.   
  
"As the author of the Patriot Act, I am extremely troubled by the FBI's interpretation of this legislation, he said. "Seizing phone records of millions of innocent people is excessive and un-American."   
  
Mr Obama also found himself under fire from Democrats and other liberal who groups who accused him of failing to live up to his 2008 promise to rein in the Bush-era security apparatus.   
  
"I'm very concerned that this is basically a continuation of the policies of the Bush administration and the abuses of the Patriot Act," Peter DeFazio, a Democrat congressman, told Politico.   
  
Mr Obama insisted that the NSA spying was authorised by Congress and kept under strict oversight by the courts.  


