Obama and the NSA surveillance state: Who's watching the watchers?


 
By JOEL CONNELLY, SEATTLEPI.COM STAFF
 
Published 8:43 pm, Friday, June 7, 2013 


Why is it that Democratic presidents, after promising a more open, transparent White House and greater respect for Americans' individual rights, always end up strengthening the national security state and protecting its secrecy?
 
President Obama, on Friday, defended the vast surveillance network of the National Security Agency, using jargon and themes adapted from his Republican predecessors:  Trust us. If you only knew what we knew.  The people who need to know are in the know.
 
"With respect to all these programs, the relevant intelligence committees are fully briefed on these programs," said Obama.  "These are programs that have been authorized by broad bipartisan majorities repeatedly since 2006."
 
The nation's first African-American president, lampooned by the right for once working as a community organizer,  sounded like a Cold War-vintage Ivy League blueblood.

Interestingly, refreshingly, Northwest senators are showing concern over the feds' broad-scale gathering of data.   Our region is no less concerned with national security, but we are a corner of the country that puts a high value on privacy. The government has no business intercepting our emails, checking our cell phone records or intruding in our bedrooms.
 
"Trust us!" doesn't cut it either. Not with the vast, secret powers bestowed under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.  Not with false claims with which the national security state has sent us to war, from Vietnam to Iraq.
 
"The watchers have to be watched," Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., said on Friday.  Added Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska:  "Our investment in protecting American lives and liberties simultaneously is not a blank check."
 
Sens. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Mark Udall, D-Colo., warned Attorney General Eric Holder in a letter last year:  "We believe most Americans would be stunned to learn the details of . . . these secret court opinions.  As we see it, there is now a significant gap between what most Americans think the law allows and what the government secretly claims the law shows."
 
After hearing a big dose of "Trust us!" from Obama on Friday -- "I know the people who are involved in these programs, they operate like professionals.  And these things are very narrowly circumscribed" -- we need to ask again why the 44th president is so wedded to the national security state.
 
Three reasons:
 
-- Security trumps liberty, at least when Americans are given that stark choice.  Our government leaders prefer to keep the choice that way.  It is a key to accruing power and marginalizing those who question authority.
 
A late-2010 ABC News/Washington Post poll found 68 percent wanting the government to go after possible terrorist threats, even if it means pushing on personal privacy, versus just 26 percent who felt strongly that privacy should be protected.
 
-- Authority defends its secrecy with smoke and mirrors.  Asked if NSA phone record snooping had sniffed out terrorist attacks, Senate Intelligence Committee Chair Dianne Feinstein replied:  "It has, but that's classified."  House counterpart Rep. Mike Rogers, R-Mich., said terrorist acts have been thwarted "within the last few years."
 
On NSA surveillance, Obama has found himself defended by the likes of Karl Rove and the Wall Street Journal editorial page.
 
-- Obama puts security protection over and above what he calls "constitutional issues."  He is acutely aware of Republicans' old saw that Democrats are "soft" on national defense.  It's still raised these days as Obama's 2008 foe John McCain tries to get us into new wars.
 
Obama was up front on Friday:  "When I came into this office, I made two commitments that are more important than any commitment I made:  Number one, to keep the American people safe; and number two, to uphold the Constitution." 
 
He said it loud and clear.  National security ranks first. Obama talks of "balance" and protecting civil liberties and the right to privacy.  Standing against that, however, is the War on Terror apparatus, its virtually unlimited scope, and the fact that it operates in the shadows.
 
Cantwell, in an interview Friday, asked:
 
"If you collect broad data, how can you be assured it won't come out at some point?  We live in an information age.  You have to create bright, defined lines that people must not cross."
 
Along with a bevy of other senators, from conservative Rand Paul to liberal Wyden and fellow Oregon Sen. Jeff Merkeley, Cantwell sent a letter last summer to NSA chief James Clapper, responding to his demands for renewal of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
 
"It is incumbent upon Congress to ensure that the government does not use these new authorities to deliberately spy on American citizens," they declared.
 
Brave words, but . . . Congress has reauthorized the USA Patriot Act and FISA, which convey vast surveillance authority to the National Security Agency.
 
On Friday, Obama declared:  "I welcome this debate.  And I think it's healthy for our democracy.  I think it's a sign of maturity, because probably five years ago, six years ago, we might not have been having this debate."
 
The underlying message, however, is clear.  The debate will neither curtail the vast reach of the snoopers, nor bring any transparency or accountability to the NSA.  Secret courts will secretly give the green light.  The president will see himself first and foremost as "commander in chief."
 
Balance?  No way.  The national security state goes about its business unchecked.  The watchers will not be watched.
