Patty Mills basks in NBA championship victory after winning with San Antonio Spurs
by: Adrian Ballantyne
From: 	 News Corp Australia Network
June 17, 2014 10:31AM
Patty Mills leads Spurs to NBA Championship glory 1:28
Patty Mills proved instrumental in clinching the NBA Championship for San Antonio, netting 17 points in a dominant performance.
Patty Mills celebrates after the final siren in Game 5. Source: AFP
PATTY Mills says he's still coming to terms with the NBA championship ring on his finger after playing a key role in the San Antonio Spurs' victory over the Miami Heat.
The Spurs' back-up point guard was celebrating this morning after Monday's final win in a 4-1 playoff whitewash against LeBron James and the Heat.
Mills sparked the Spurs' matchwinning lead in the third quarter of Game 5 when he emerged off the bench and poured in 14 points for the quarter, including three three-pointers.
He finished with 17 points for the game and earned a standing ovation from the crowd when he left the court for the final time late in the final quarter.
MILLS LEADS SPURS TO CHAMPIONSHIP GLORY
AUSSIES WHO MADE IT IN THE BIG TIME
The 25-year-old Australian said he still couldn't believe the role he'd played in the Spurs' success.
Patty Mills shares a moment with Gregg Popovich after the Spurs won Game 5. Source: Getty Images
"It's an absolutely great feeling today. I'm still trying to let it all sink in," he said on Triple M.
"It was just one of those games. When you get an opportunity to shoot the ball, when you're open you shoot the ball. I think at that stage you don't really think about much."
Mills, who starred for Australia at the London Olympics and finished as the tournament's leading point scorer, said he'd never experienced a game like yesterday's contest in San Antonio.
"It was deafening in the arena last night. I definitely haven't felt the ... crowd as it was in the three years that I've been in San Antonio but it was actually a very special place to do it last night."
"To do it with obviously Tim Duncan, Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili, three great people and genuine teammates, it was an amazing feeling."
Andrew Gaze 'Patty Mills was extraordinary' for San Antonio 3:11
Former Australian basketballer Andrew Gaze shares his take on the NBA Final Series whitewash and Australian Patty Mills outstanding performances for the victorious San Antonio Spurs
Mills again put his remarkable career turnaround -- having been a rarely-used bench player during last year's finals loss to the Heat -- to the new physique he earned after overhauling his diet.
Mills revealed earlier this month that he'd given up his favourite delicacies -- strawberry milk and Vegemite -- as part of his new regime.
"It wasn't anything crazy, to be honest with you. It was just getting a better understanding and knowledge on nutrition and understanding what's good for me personally and then trying to customise a better eating plan that I didn't learn beforehand," he said.
"Being disciplined and learning and staying on top of that was really all it was. I was always going to work hard in the gym and in the weight room and on the court but I thought I'd clean that (diet) up and it made a big difference."
