Palestinians, Israeli troops clash in teens search - The Times of India
JERUSALEM: Israeli soldiers clashed with Palestinians during an arrest raid on early Thursday in the most violent confrontation so far in the weeklong search for three missing Israeli teens believed to have been abducted in the West Bank.
Israel has blamed the Islamic militant group
Hamas	 for the apparent abductions, without providing evidence. Israel has since launched a widespread crackdown on the militant Islamic group, arresting scores of members while conducting a feverish manhunt for the missing youths.
Hamas has praised the abduction of the teenagers, but has not claimed responsibility for it.
The three--Eyal Yifrah, 19, Gilad Shaar, 16, and Naftali Fraenkel, a 16-year-old with dual Israeli-American citizenship--disappeared on late Thursday while hitchhiking home from Jewish seminaries in the West Bank.
The military said about 300 Palestinians took to the streets when the soldiers entered Jenin at about 2am. Some opened fire at the troops, others threw explosive devices or rocks at the soldiers. It said soldiers retaliated with live fire.
The military said 30 Palestinians were arrested in the overnight raid.
Nadir Irshaid, director of the Jenin hospital, said seven people are being treated for light injuries that he said were caused by rubber bullets and beatings.
According to several Jenin residents, who spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing for their safety, three Palestinians were arrested over the Jenin violence, including two members of the Islamic Jihad militant group.
Since the operation to locate the teens began a week ago, about 280 Palestinians have been arrested, the military said, including 200 members of Hamas.
The military also said that troops have searched for about 100 locations and raided institutions it said are used by Hamas.
Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner, a military spokesman, said Hamas is ''paying a heavy price for the abduction.''
Israel and the West consider Hamas a terrorist group due to its long history of attacks aimed at civilians. Hamas has abducted Israelis before.
There has been no sign of life from the missing teens or any ransom or other demands from their purported kidnappers.
US ambassador Dan Shapiro met with the Fraenkel family on Thursday and expressed Washington's ''strong support'' for Israeli efforts to find the teenagers. The US has ''a special responsibility in the case of an American citizen,'' Shapiro said.
Prayer vigils and round-the-clock media coverage have followed the teens' disappearance.

Israel's Netanyahu says bringing back abducted teens could take time - Xinhua | English.news.cn
JERUSALEM, June 16 (Xinhua) -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday addressed the nation, warning that Israel must be ready that it takes time to find the three abducted Israeli teens.
"We are in the middle of a complex operation," Netanyahu said, as the search for the three teens, who were presumably abducted by Hamas in the West Bank, entered its fourth day.
"We should be prepared that the operation will take time," he added.
The three religious school students, two of whom aged 16, and one 19, have been missing since late Thursday. They were last seen around Gush Etzion, a settlement block in the Israeli-occupied West Bank.
In a massive manhunt for the kidnappers, Israel has deployed large scale of military forces across the West Bank and imposed closures on some Palestinian cities and villages. Over the past days, the Israeli army arrested over one hundred Hamas members, including high ranking officials.
Netanyahu also called on members of the international community to condemn the incident.
"I urge those in the international community that condemn us for building in Jerusalem to clearly condemn this kidnapping," he said in a televised statement, his second since Saturday.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon as well as leaders of Canada, Great Britain, have condemned the kidnapping.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas released a statement on Monday in which he condemned the kidnapping of the teens for the first time. "Both sides should refrain from violence," the statement said.
Netanyahu later talked with Abbas on the phone and asked him to assist in finding the teens.
Netanyahu further said that Israel has seen an attempt by militants in the Gaza Strip "to open another front" while the Israeli military was engaged in massive search operations in the West Bank, referring to a recent spate of rocket attacks from Gaza and Israeli retaliatory strikes.
"We responded to it with force," Netanyahu said of the rocket fire. "Whoever tries to hurt the citizens of Israel will be hurt."
Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Ya'alon, who spoke after Netanyahu, expressed his confidence that Israel will ultimately free the teenagers.
