Palestinians, Israeli troops clash in teens search - The Times of India
JERUSALEM: Israeli soldiers clashed with Palestinians during an arrest raid on early Thursday in the most violent confrontation so far in the weeklong search for three missing Israeli teens believed to have been abducted in the West Bank.
Israel has blamed the Islamic militant group
Hamas	 for the apparent abductions, without providing evidence. Israel has since launched a widespread crackdown on the militant Islamic group, arresting scores of members while conducting a feverish manhunt for the missing youths.
Hamas has praised the abduction of the teenagers, but has not claimed responsibility for it.
The three--Eyal Yifrah, 19, Gilad Shaar, 16, and Naftali Fraenkel, a 16-year-old with dual Israeli-American citizenship--disappeared on late Thursday while hitchhiking home from Jewish seminaries in the West Bank.
The military said about 300 Palestinians took to the streets when the soldiers entered Jenin at about 2am. Some opened fire at the troops, others threw explosive devices or rocks at the soldiers. It said soldiers retaliated with live fire.
The military said 30 Palestinians were arrested in the overnight raid.
Nadir Irshaid, director of the Jenin hospital, said seven people are being treated for light injuries that he said were caused by rubber bullets and beatings.
According to several Jenin residents, who spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing for their safety, three Palestinians were arrested over the Jenin violence, including two members of the Islamic Jihad militant group.
Since the operation to locate the teens began a week ago, about 280 Palestinians have been arrested, the military said, including 200 members of Hamas.
The military also said that troops have searched for about 100 locations and raided institutions it said are used by Hamas.
Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner, a military spokesman, said Hamas is ''paying a heavy price for the abduction.''
Israel and the West consider Hamas a terrorist group due to its long history of attacks aimed at civilians. Hamas has abducted Israelis before.
There has been no sign of life from the missing teens or any ransom or other demands from their purported kidnappers.
US ambassador Dan Shapiro met with the Fraenkel family on Thursday and expressed Washington's ''strong support'' for Israeli efforts to find the teenagers. The US has ''a special responsibility in the case of an American citizen,'' Shapiro said.
Prayer vigils and round-the-clock media coverage have followed the teens' disappearance.

Arab MK upset by relative's public call for return of teens | JPost | Israel News
Sixteen-year-old Mohammad Zoabi, a cousin of Balad MK Haneen Zoabi, made a video calling on "terrorists" to return the three yeshiva students missing in the West Bank since Thursday night and presumed to have been kidnapped.
"Those terrorists that have kidnapped our kids - bring them back, and you had better bring them back now!" exclaimed the young Zoabi, an Israeli flag in the background.
Speaking in English, Arabic and Hebrew, he also addressed Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and his government.
"Wake up and stop cooperating with terrorists," he told them, adding that the Palestinian Authority was the "biggest" terrorist.
"Our enemies do not separate between Arabs and Jews living in Israel," he said.
Like his lawmaker relative a resident of Nazareth, Zoabi said he was proud to be an Israeli , adding that the country should continue to be a Jewish and democratic state.
His video was uploaded to Youtube on Saturday and as of Monday evening had accounted for over 25,000 views.
The Balad MK was quick to unleash her displeasure.
"I am happy to see that Israeli hasbara [public diplomacy] is in such a dire state that it needs a stupid boy with a twisted identity who feels a continuous need to apologize to his strong masters," Haneen Zoabi told Ynet.
"The Israeli desire to highlight this delusional case shows the state's need for legitimacy, even if it comes from a questionable direction."
Citing an incitement campaign being waged against Mohammad Zoabi in the wake of the video - including by his lawmaker relative - coalition chairman MK Yariv Levin (Likud) wrote a letter to Public Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch (Likud Beytenu) demanding that he guarantee the teen's safety.
Please LIKE our Facebook page - it makes us stronger:
