Palestinians, Israeli troops clash in teens search - The Times of India
JERUSALEM: Israeli soldiers clashed with Palestinians during an arrest raid on early Thursday in the most violent confrontation so far in the weeklong search for three missing Israeli teens believed to have been abducted in the West Bank.
Israel has blamed the Islamic militant group
Hamas	 for the apparent abductions, without providing evidence. Israel has since launched a widespread crackdown on the militant Islamic group, arresting scores of members while conducting a feverish manhunt for the missing youths.
Hamas has praised the abduction of the teenagers, but has not claimed responsibility for it.
The three--Eyal Yifrah, 19, Gilad Shaar, 16, and Naftali Fraenkel, a 16-year-old with dual Israeli-American citizenship--disappeared on late Thursday while hitchhiking home from Jewish seminaries in the West Bank.
The military said about 300 Palestinians took to the streets when the soldiers entered Jenin at about 2am. Some opened fire at the troops, others threw explosive devices or rocks at the soldiers. It said soldiers retaliated with live fire.
The military said 30 Palestinians were arrested in the overnight raid.
Nadir Irshaid, director of the Jenin hospital, said seven people are being treated for light injuries that he said were caused by rubber bullets and beatings.
According to several Jenin residents, who spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing for their safety, three Palestinians were arrested over the Jenin violence, including two members of the Islamic Jihad militant group.
Since the operation to locate the teens began a week ago, about 280 Palestinians have been arrested, the military said, including 200 members of Hamas.
The military also said that troops have searched for about 100 locations and raided institutions it said are used by Hamas.
Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner, a military spokesman, said Hamas is ''paying a heavy price for the abduction.''
Israel and the West consider Hamas a terrorist group due to its long history of attacks aimed at civilians. Hamas has abducted Israelis before.
There has been no sign of life from the missing teens or any ransom or other demands from their purported kidnappers.
US ambassador Dan Shapiro met with the Fraenkel family on Thursday and expressed Washington's ''strong support'' for Israeli efforts to find the teenagers. The US has ''a special responsibility in the case of an American citizen,'' Shapiro said.
Prayer vigils and round-the-clock media coverage have followed the teens' disappearance.

Israel raids 750 homes and arrests hundreds in search for missing teens | Al Bawaba
Human rights groups have criticized Israeli raids and arrests as "collective punishment" (File/AFP)

Israeli forces have raided hundreds of homes and detained 300 Palestinian individuals since three Israeli teenagers went missing from a Jewish settlement near Bethlehem last week, the Palestinian Prisoner's Society said in a statement Wednesday.
Israeli forces have launched arrest raids across the West Bank since Thursday in retribution for the disappearance, which they say was the result of a Hamas kidnapping.
Hebron has born the brunt of the retribution, as a siege was imposed on the southern West Bank region of more than 600,000 over the weekend.
More than one-third of the 300 detained were taken during Israeli raids on more than 750 homes in the district.
During the raids, Israeli forces damaged properties in the majority of the houses, the Prisoner's Society said, and the infrastructure of a number of homes was damaged in some of the raids.
Palestinian Prisoner's Society director in Hebron Amjad al-Najjar said that the arrests have not only targeted Hamas members but all Palestinians.
Local sources said that Israeli forces are continuing raids and searches in areas around the Hebron-district villages of Ithna and Dura, and that there is a heavy deployment of Israeli soldiers in Farsh al-Hawa area.
The search is reportedly focused in the northwestern regions of Hebron, from where a telephone call to the police from one of the youths immediately after they disappeared was reportedly sourced by the military. In that call, one of the Israeli youths told the police the three had been "kidnapped."
The Prisoner's Society said that the 300 detainees include 52 people who were freed in the Shalit prisoner exchange deal with Israel, and 11 Palestinian members of parliament.
According to the Palestinian Prisoner's Society, 104 were detained from Hebron, 52 from Nablus, 41 from Ramallah, 37 from Jenin, 16 from Tulkarem, 13 from Qalqiliya, 12 from each of Bethlehem and Jerusalem, 6 from Tubas, 5 from Salfit, and one from Jericho.
Additionally, one individual from Balata refugee camp near Nablus was arrested Wednesday night.
The Israeli military has engaged in a wide spread search campaign for the missing youths that has morphed into a full assault on Hamas members across the West Bank in recent days.
Israeli forces have killed one Palestinians and injured at least seven injured across the West Bank since the campaign began.
The attacks have triggered protests in the West Bank and rockets from Gaza, which Israel has bombed almost every night.
