Palestinians, Israeli troops clash in teens search - The Times of India
JERUSALEM: Israeli soldiers clashed with Palestinians during an arrest raid on early Thursday in the most violent confrontation so far in the weeklong search for three missing Israeli teens believed to have been abducted in the West Bank.
Israel has blamed the Islamic militant group
Hamas	 for the apparent abductions, without providing evidence. Israel has since launched a widespread crackdown on the militant Islamic group, arresting scores of members while conducting a feverish manhunt for the missing youths.
Hamas has praised the abduction of the teenagers, but has not claimed responsibility for it.
The three--Eyal Yifrah, 19, Gilad Shaar, 16, and Naftali Fraenkel, a 16-year-old with dual Israeli-American citizenship--disappeared on late Thursday while hitchhiking home from Jewish seminaries in the West Bank.
The military said about 300 Palestinians took to the streets when the soldiers entered Jenin at about 2am. Some opened fire at the troops, others threw explosive devices or rocks at the soldiers. It said soldiers retaliated with live fire.
The military said 30 Palestinians were arrested in the overnight raid.
Nadir Irshaid, director of the Jenin hospital, said seven people are being treated for light injuries that he said were caused by rubber bullets and beatings.
According to several Jenin residents, who spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing for their safety, three Palestinians were arrested over the Jenin violence, including two members of the Islamic Jihad militant group.
Since the operation to locate the teens began a week ago, about 280 Palestinians have been arrested, the military said, including 200 members of Hamas.
The military also said that troops have searched for about 100 locations and raided institutions it said are used by Hamas.
Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner, a military spokesman, said Hamas is ''paying a heavy price for the abduction.''
Israel and the West consider Hamas a terrorist group due to its long history of attacks aimed at civilians. Hamas has abducted Israelis before.
There has been no sign of life from the missing teens or any ransom or other demands from their purported kidnappers.
US ambassador Dan Shapiro met with the Fraenkel family on Thursday and expressed Washington's ''strong support'' for Israeli efforts to find the teenagers. The US has ''a special responsibility in the case of an American citizen,'' Shapiro said.
Prayer vigils and round-the-clock media coverage have followed the teens' disappearance.

Israeli troops are searching for three missing Israeli teenagers feared to have been abducted by Palestinian militants (AP)
19 June 2014
Israeli soldiers have clashed with Palestinians during an arrest raid in the search for three missing teenagers believed to have been abducted in the West Bank, the military said.
Palestinians in the town of Jenin and an adjacent refugee camp threw home-made explosives and stones at soldiers who then opened fire, according to a military spokesman.
It was the most violent confrontation since thousands of Israeli soldiers first fanned out across the West Bank in search of the teenagers, who disappeared last Thursday night while hitch-hiking home near the city of Hebron.
Israel has blamed the Islamic militant group Hamas for the abduction, but has not provided evidence.
Troops have rounded up about 280 Palestinians so far, most of them from Hamas, including 30 more overnight.
Hamas has praised the kidnapping of the teenagers - Eyal Yifrah, 19, Gilad Shaar, 16, and Naftali Fraenkel, a 16-year-old with dual Israeli-American citizenship - but has not claimed responsibility for their abduction.
More than 200 Palestinians took to the streets when the soldiers entered the area. Some threw improvised explosives, fire bombs and rock at the soldiers.
Nadir Irshaid, director of Jenin hospital, said seven people were being treated for light injuries caused by rubber bullets and beatings.
Jenin residents said three Palestinians were arrested, including two members of the Islamic Jihad militant group.
There has been no sign of the missing teenagers or any ransom or other demands from their purported kidnappers.
