Palestinians, Israeli troops clash in teens search - The Times of India
JERUSALEM: Israeli soldiers clashed with Palestinians during an arrest raid on early Thursday in the most violent confrontation so far in the weeklong search for three missing Israeli teens believed to have been abducted in the West Bank.
Israel has blamed the Islamic militant group
Hamas	 for the apparent abductions, without providing evidence. Israel has since launched a widespread crackdown on the militant Islamic group, arresting scores of members while conducting a feverish manhunt for the missing youths.
Hamas has praised the abduction of the teenagers, but has not claimed responsibility for it.
The three--Eyal Yifrah, 19, Gilad Shaar, 16, and Naftali Fraenkel, a 16-year-old with dual Israeli-American citizenship--disappeared on late Thursday while hitchhiking home from Jewish seminaries in the West Bank.
The military said about 300 Palestinians took to the streets when the soldiers entered Jenin at about 2am. Some opened fire at the troops, others threw explosive devices or rocks at the soldiers. It said soldiers retaliated with live fire.
The military said 30 Palestinians were arrested in the overnight raid.
Nadir Irshaid, director of the Jenin hospital, said seven people are being treated for light injuries that he said were caused by rubber bullets and beatings.
According to several Jenin residents, who spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing for their safety, three Palestinians were arrested over the Jenin violence, including two members of the Islamic Jihad militant group.
Since the operation to locate the teens began a week ago, about 280 Palestinians have been arrested, the military said, including 200 members of Hamas.
The military also said that troops have searched for about 100 locations and raided institutions it said are used by Hamas.
Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner, a military spokesman, said Hamas is ''paying a heavy price for the abduction.''
Israel and the West consider Hamas a terrorist group due to its long history of attacks aimed at civilians. Hamas has abducted Israelis before.
There has been no sign of life from the missing teens or any ransom or other demands from their purported kidnappers.
US ambassador Dan Shapiro met with the Fraenkel family on Thursday and expressed Washington's ''strong support'' for Israeli efforts to find the teenagers. The US has ''a special responsibility in the case of an American citizen,'' Shapiro said.
Prayer vigils and round-the-clock media coverage have followed the teens' disappearance.

JERUSALEM: Missing Israeli teenager has strong US roots - World Wires - MiamiHerald.com
JERUSALEM -- The family of an Israeli-American teen believed to have been abducted in the West Bank says it has received an outpouring of support from friends and family back in the U.S.
Naftali Fraenkel is believed to have been abducted late Thursday with two other teens, Gilad Shaar, 16, and Eyal Yifrah, 19, as they were hitchhiking home from a school in the West Bank. Since then, Israel has been on a furious search for the boys, arresting dozens of members of the militant group Hamas, which Israel's prime minister says is behind the kidnapping. The teens have not been heard from.
Fraenkel's grandparents moved to Israel from the Flatbush neighborhood of Brooklyn in 1956. Although Fraenkel, 16, was born and raised in Israel, he paid brief visits to the U.S. while growing up, said his aunt, Ittael Fraenkel.
She said most of his cousins, aunts and uncles live in the U.S., mostly in the Flatbush area of Brooklyn, the New York suburb of Monsey and other parts of the state.
She said her brother's synagogue and other synagogues in Brooklyn have been organizing prayer vigils for the teen. A prayer vigil was scheduled for later Monday outside the Israeli consulate in New York.
"We're getting a lot of support from family," she told The Associated Press. "My brother is feeling a lot of support and solidarity from his friends."
Fraenkel's family affirmed its trust in Israel's rescue efforts and expressed gratitude for the nationwide support. The story has generated round-the-clock news coverage, and more than 10,000 people gathered at the Western Wall in Jerusalem late Sunday to pray for the teens' safety.
"He is a kid full of happiness and smiles," said Ittael Fraenkel. "We are optimistic; we really hope to see him home soon."
As the search entered its fourth day, the ordeal continued to capture national attention with nearly nonstop updates by Israeli media.
Naftali Fraenkel and his six siblings are American citizens. His aunt confirmed the family has been in contact with the U.S. Ambassador to Israel.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on Sunday condemned the kidnapping, stopping short of assigning blame to Hamas. "We are still seeking details on the parties responsible for this despicable terrorist act," Kerry said.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has blamed the disappearance of the teens on Hamas, which is labeled a terrorist group by Israel and the West. Hamas denies any role in the kidnappings and called the accusations "stupid."
"We are of course very, very worried, we really, really want to see him home fast," said Ittael Fraenkel.
Daniel Estrin and Moshe Edri contributed to this story.
