Family 'amazingly strong,' prays for kidnapped Israeli teen Naftali Fraenkel's return - NY Daily News
Reuters Israeli seminary student Naftali Frankel, who also holds U.S. citizenship, disappeared Thursday with two other Jewish teens.
Relatives of an Israeli teen abducted in the West Bank were praying Monday for his deliverance.
Naftali Fraenkel has not been heard from since Thursday, when he and two other Jewish teens, Gilad Shaar, 16, and 19-year-old Eyal Yifrah, disappeared as they were hitchhiking home from their yeshiva.
His mother, Racheli Fraenkel, in an emotion-filled speech, thanked authorities, friends and family for their support.
"We feel and know that they are turning the world in order to find the three," she said, telling reporters the family was in daily contact with the Israeli military.
"We have tremendous gratitude and we want to express the utmost thanks for all the support ... we feel waves and waves of prayers," the mother said.
She added that the family had the utmost trust in the authorities and they expected good news soon.
HAZEM BADER/AFP/Getty Images Israeli soldiers patrol, with police dogs, the streets of the West Bank town of Hebron.
"We trust that Eyal and Gilad and Naftali -- boys coming home on the way from school, they were just on their way home -- will be with us here and we'll hug them soon ... God willing we'll all be able to celebrate their return safely," she said.
Fraenkel's extended family, including relatives in Flatbush and upstate New York, echoed her optimism.
"We really know that everybody is doing everything possible to bring all three boys back," Fraenkel's aunt, Ittael, said in Israel. "The family is strong, amazingly strong. It is very hard and the family is keeping their hopes up."
Fraenkel's grandparents moved to Israel from New York City back in 1956. But Brooklyn was a second home for the missing teen, who, like his six siblings, is a U.S. citizen.
Fraenkel, who was born in Israel and lives in the small town of Nof Ayalon, also has extended family up in Monsey, N.Y., and elsewhere upstate, his aunt said.
HAZEM BADER/AFP/Getty Images Israeli soldiers patrol the streets of the West Bank town of Hebron on Monday.
Ittael Fraenkel said her brother's synagogue in Brooklyn -- and other local synagogues -- have been organizing prayer vigils for the teen.
Some 250 people from 15 different Jewish groups gathered in front of the Israeli consulate in midtown Manhattan Monday.
Many waved small Israeli flags or signs that said "Bring Our Boys Back."
The crowd chanted and prayed in Hebrew and English along with Rabbi Avi Weiss, from AMCHA, a group dedicated to ending anti-Semitism.
"We really want to send a message to Israel, to our brothers and sisters, that everyone should feel that they're the mother, father, the brother of these boys," said Rabbi Weiss.
All three Israeli teens attended the prestigious Mekor Chaim yeshiva in Gush Etzion, which is south of Jerusalem.
On Monday, Israeli security forces rounded up 40 members of the militant group Hamas, which Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says is behind the kidnapping.
Palestinians threw rocks when Israeli soldiers barged into the al-Jalazoun refugee camp near the West Bank city of Ramallah.
Israeli troops responded with gunfire, killing a 20-year-old Palestinian and wounding another, hospital officials said.
The Israelis also launched pre-dawn raids on the West Bank city of Hebron.
ABBAS MOMANI/AFP/Getty Images Israeli soldiers take positions during a raid in the West Bank refugee camp of Jalazon, north of Ramallah, early Wednesday.
Lieutenant-General Benny Gantz, chief of Israel's armed forces, made no apologies for the muscle.
"We have a goal, and that is to find these three boys and bring them home, and to hit Hamas as hard as possible," Gantz said.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas blasted the Israeli incursion, but also condemned "the kidnapping of three Israeli boys."
Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip and does not recognize the Jewish state, has denied any role in the kidnappings and called the accusations "stupid."
And Hamas, which recently inked a reconciliation pact with Abbas' Fatah movement, also called any help by the Palestinian Authority to help find the teens would be a "poisonous knife in the back of our people."
ABBAS MOMANI/AFP/Getty Images Israeli soldiers interrogate a Palestinian family during a raid in the West Bank refugee camp of Jalazon, north of Ramallah. The army says more than 150 Palestinians have been arrested in the search for the three youngsters who were snatched from the southern West Bank on June 12.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry has condemned the kidnapping, although he hasn't directly blamed Hamas.
"We are still seeking details on the parties responsible for this despicable terrorist act," Kerry said.
With News Wire Services
