The FDA Moves To Regulate Increasingly Popular E-Cigarettes

The Food and Drug Administration says it will formally propose regulating e-cigarettes.

Early Thursday, the agency unveiled a long-awaited rule that would give it power to oversee the increasingly popular devices, much in the way that it regulates traditional cigarettes.

"It's a huge change," FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg told reporters in a briefing Wednesday, before the official announcement of the agency's plans. "We will have the authority as a science-based regulatory agency to take critical actions to promote and protect the health of the public."

The proposal will be subject to public comment and further review by the agency before becoming final. But once that happens the rule would impose new restrictions, including:
oA ban on the sale of e-cigarettes to minors.
oA prohibition on distributing free samples.
oA ban on selling e-cigarettes in vending machines unless they are in places that never admit young people.
oA requirement that e-cigarettes carry warnings that they contain nicotine, which is addictive.
oE-cigarette manufacturers would be required to disclose the ingredients in their products.

E-cigarettes are plastic or metal tubes about the size of a traditional cigarette that heat a liquid solution containing nicotine. That creates a vapor that users inhale. Their popularity has soared in recent years.

Some have welcomed the trend as a way to prevent people from smoking traditional cigarettes, which are far more dangerous, and to help smokers quit.

Others fear the devices will addict nonsmokers to nicotine and eventually lead to more people smoking. That has fueled calls for the FDA to assert its authority over the devices. Although e-cigarettes are generally considered much safer than traditional cigarettes, some fear that not enough research has been done to know what risks they may have.

"We call the current marketplace for e-cigarettes the Wild Wild West," said Mitchell Zeller, who heads the FDA's Center for Tobacco Products. "We will be in a position to ensure that the products are as safe as they could possibly be."

The FDA had previously attempted to regulate e-cigarettes, but that effort was thwarted in court. The agency recently signaled, however, that it planned to try again. Thursday's announcement will make that official.

The proposal would also require any new e-cigarettes to get FDA approval before being sold, and demand that current products provide a justification for remaining on the market.

The announcement stopped short of more aggressive regulation that some critics had called for, including restricting or banning fruit flavors and other sweet flavors that may appeal to young people.

It also will not restrict television advertising and online sales, as some had hoped. But Zeller and Hamburg said Thursday's move is the first step that could lead to such measures if the agency determines that is needed.

"This announcement starts the process that will give us the authority to actually get out there and regulate e-cigarettes," Hamburg said.

The FDA also is proposing regulation of a variety of other tobacco-related products, including cigars, nicotine gels, pipe tobacco and water pipes.



FDA Proposes First E-Cigarette Rules
 

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration proposed asserting its authority over new tobacco products on Thursday, including e-cigarettes, flavored cigars and nicotine gels.

It's a basic first step, extending the FDA's regulatory power, but the rule would immediately make e-cigarettes off-limits to kids under 18 and would require makers to tell the agency what's in their products.

"They would have to report to us the constituents of their products and also how they are making them," said FDA commissioner Dr. Margaret Hamburg.

But the agency does not propose, for now, limiting Internet sales or television advertising.

Congress gave FDA the authority to regulate tobacco products in 2009, but the law didn't include e-cigarettes and certain other products. The legislation also does not allow FDA to ban tobacco products outright, but it can limit sales and marketing and require warning labels.

Public health experts have been clamoring for FDA to extend its authority as e-cigarettes have exploded in popularity.


"It's like the wild, wild West."

"It's like the wild, wild West," Hamburg said. "Companies can do whatever they want and they can market however they want."

Use of e-cigarettes, called "vaping", has taken off in a big way, with sales hitting an estimated $2 billion in 2013. An e-cigarette product ranges from $10 to $120, depending on how many charges it provides.


 

 



The little metal or plastic tubes that look like cigarettes have been around in some form since 1963, but only became popular within the past decade. Now more than 250 brands have proliferated.

The new regulations would extend limits that are currently on cigarettes to other tobacco products, including e-cigarettes. That means makers will have to register with FDA and disclose what is in them.

"We expect that the industry won't be delighted," Hamburg said.

E-cigarette enthusiasts say vaping is far safer than smoking cigarettes, and some experts say that may well be the case. Cigarettes and other tobacco products contain hundreds, if not thousand of chemicals, and companies were known to add chemicals to enhance flavor and to make the products more addictive.



FDA proposes first e-cigarette regulations Joe Raedle / Getty Images file 
 
Michael Crespo enjoys an electronic cigarette at the Vapor Shark store on Feb. 20, in Miami. The FDA has proposed the first rules on e-cigarettes.

Supporters and some researchers say they may be useful in helping people quit smoking what they call combustible cigarettes, but the research is limited. Hamburg says it's important to find out just how people really are using them - whether as an aid to kicking the habit or as a crutch to get them past no-smoking zones.


 

 



And most health advocates are suspicious of the motives of e-cigarette makers.

"The tobacco industry are very vigorously looking at alternative products to smoking tobacco and are betting a lot that this will be a product for them that will be viable in the future," said American Heart Association president Dr. Mariell jessup.

"It's being marketed a lot that the smoke is harmless and we don't know that. We shouldn't be fooled by the promises that these devices, these nicotine delivery systems, are safe."

E-cigarettes contain at the least nicotine and compounds such as propylene glycol, as well as water, to make a flavored mist that looks like smoke and that users can inhale like they would a cigarette.

But Hamburg says no one really knows what else is in them or what the effects are of inhaling the heated-up mixture. "We don't know as much about the safety and risks of e-cigarettes and that is why we want to be able to regulate them," Hamburg told NBC News.

"The current situation is of great concern to us,' she added. "It is an unregulated environment with respect to these products."


"They are an easy way for kids to take up a nicotine habit and then go on to cigarettes and other tobacco products."

Flavors such as strawberry and "thin mint" make it clear the products are being aimed at children, teens and young adults, Hamburg said.

"They are an easy way for kids to take up a nicotine habit and then go on to cigarettes and other tobacco products that we know carry very serious risks," she said.

Thursday's proposals are just the start of a cumbersome process. FDA will publish the suggested regulations and then the public and industry may weigh in. FDA must consider the comments before it enacts a final rule - something that can take months or even years.

"We want to move as quickly as we can but it is a process and it will take time," Hamburg said. "We think the fact that we are beginning the process is important."

The FDA banned fruit- and candy-flavored cigarettes soon after the agency was given regulatory power over tobacco in 2009. Hamburg noted that tobacco companies then started making flavored cigars and she said that worries her.

Last year, the FDA found that menthol cigarettes were more dangerous than non-flavored cigarettes, but did nothing to limit their sale.
