Why Pakistan's offensive on the Taliban is a very big deal - The Washington Post
A Pakistani paramilitary soldier checks a van at a checkpoint in Hangu, a town in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. (Basit Gilani/Agence France-Presse via Getty Images)
After months of inaction, Pakistan's government authorized a significant military offensive against Taliban militants in North Waziristan, a tribal agency along the Afghan border. It may be the largest such campaign in 2009, when the military targeted the Pakistani Taliban in adjacent South Waziristan. Pakistani airstrikes over the weekend and on Monday killed about 160 suspected militants. Authorities reportedly ordered the evacuation of thousands of civilians from North Waziristan before sending in ground troops into populated areas.
The operation, named after a sword wielded by the prophet Muhammad, is receiving far less attention than the crisis in Iraq, where the advances of Islamist militants threaten to implode the whole state. But the importance of Pakistan's war with the Pakistani Taliban should not be understated. Here's why.
Pakistan may finally be confronting the enemy
For years, critics have accused Pakistan's civilian and military leaders of not doing enough to excise the cancer in their midst. In the mid-2000s, the Pakistani military even cut deals with prominent militant factions based in North Waziristan. It's clear that elements of the Taliban have, at least in the past, found sympathy and support from some wings of Pakistan's establishment, including its notorious military intelligence agency, the ISI. Last year, the recently elected government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, heeding domestic political pressures, embarked on an extended process of talks with Taliban leaders. But they bore little fruit.
The Pakistani Taliban, as explained here, is in reality an umbrella grouping of a host of militant outfits and tribal militias. The current offensive is aimed in particular at flushing out entrenched groups of foreign fighters, including, officials say, Uzbeks and ethnic Uighurs, Turkic Muslims who are fighting for a separate homeland in the far west of China.
Tired of all the bloodshed, some political parties such as the Movement for Justice, led by the charismatic former cricketer Imran Khan, have urged rapprochement with the militants and pointed accusing fingers at the role of the United States and its CIA drone program in inflaming tensions. But even Khan appears to have acquiesced to the current military operation; last week, with a clear nod from Islamabad, the United States reportedly launched its first drone strikes in more than half a year on targets in North Waziristan.
The drone strikes hit at militants belonging to the Haqqani network, a shadowy group involved in insurgent and criminal activities on both sides of the border and which is believed to have ties to the ISI. The U.S. has long pushed the Pakistanis to move against the Haqqanis in North Waziristan and while there is no current indication that Islamabad intends to target them, an operation of this scale in the Haqqanis' neighborhood presents an inflection point.
Pakistan now risks dangerous reprisal attacks
The immediate trigger for this operation was last week's glaring terror strike on the main airport in Karachi, Pakistan's biggest city and commercial hub. The attack, though eventually rebuffed, was a sign of the Pakistani Taliban's remarkable penetration throughout the country, far from its supposed home base in the rugged tribal areas along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
A Taliban spokesman promised further retaliation, including strikes on foreigners and foreign business interests. "Our success in the tribal areas could quickly turn into losses in the plains of Punjab," a senior Pakistani military official told the news agency Reuters, referring to the country's most populous province. The whole country now may have to accept being on a war footing as the offensive continues.
Pakistan's fight against militancy is a bellwether for the region
The shocking gains by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in Iraq offer something of a cautionary tale for Pakistan. Obviously, the security and political challenges differ greatly in Iraq and Pakistan, but both countries face existential reckonings. "Non-state actors pose the foremost threat to the state in Muslim countries," writes Pakistani columnist Babar Sattar in Dawn, a leading English-language daily. "And when the state derives its legitimacy from religion and so do its non-state challengers, the resulting polarization as evident in our society is a natural outcome."
For too long, argue Sattar and other critics, the Pakistani state has helped incubate extremism, at times as a tool of policy. Its crackdown on some militant groups in the wake of 9/11 and quiet tolerance of others further muddied the waters. "We have a bitter history of creating non-state actors during the 1980s and 1990s that is still haunting us," Sattar writes. "We then pursued the disastrous good-versus-bad-terrorist policy post-9/11 that produced more destruction and confusion."
Now, as the United States prepares to withdraw from neighboring Afghanistan, Pakistan has the opportunity -- and, perhaps, responsibility -- to start a new narrative. It may begin with tough action on militants in North Waziristan. But it can't end there.
Authorities lifted a curfew and opened roads in the northwest region of Pakistan on Wednesday, so that residents could move their families to safety as the military moved into areas bordering Afghanistan. The military is working to rid the area of Taliban insurgents.
Ishaan Tharoor writes about foreign affairs for The Washington Post. He previously was a Senior Editor at TIME, based first in Hong Kong and later in New York.

Two US drone strikes kill at least five militants in Pakistan | Capital News
A Pakistani solder checks a passenger van at a checkpoint in Hangu, a town in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, on June 17, 2014/AFP
MIRANSHAH, June 18- At least five militants were killed in two separate US drone strikes early Wednesday in a northwest tribal district where Pakistan has this week launched a major military offensive.
Local security officials said six missiles hit three compounds in Dargah Mandi village in North Waziristan, around 10 kilometres (six miles) west of the main town of Miranshah in an area considered a stronghold for the Al Qaeda linked Haqqani network.
"US drones fired six missiles which hit three separate compounds in two villages, at least five militants have been killed," a local security official in Miranshah told AFP.
The identities of those killed in the strikes were yet not clear, the official said.
The attacks took place just minutes apart. Two drones fired four missiles in the first strike, then a third drone fired a further two missiles in the second attack, the official said.
Another senior security official confirmed the strike and told AFP that a vehicle parked in one compound was also hit, adding the death toll could rise.
Washington reportedly suspended its drone programme in December to give Islamabad time to pursue a dialogue process with the Pakistani Tehreek e Taliban (TTP) aimed at ending a seven year insurgency that has claimed thousands of lives.
However the nascent peace process was shattered when the Taliban launched an attack on the airport in Karachi on June 9 that left dozens dead.
The US resumed the programme last week, days after the Karachi attack, with two strikes in the same village of Dargah Mandi, killing at least 16 militants.
Islamabad condemned those strikes, despite suspicions the two countries coordinated in the aftermath of the Taliban siege, branding them "a violation of Pakistan's sovereignty and territorial integrity" in a foreign office statement.
Leaked documents have shown deep cooperation over drone attacks in the past, but they remain controversial, with critics charging they cause many civilian casualties.
Some 2,171 people have been killed in drone attacks since August 2008, according to an AFP tally.
Pakistan's army launched its long-awaited military offensive a standing demand of the United States on Sunday, a week after the Karachi attack, deploying troops, tanks and jets to the area in the crackdown on the Taliban and other militants.
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has urged Afghanistan's leader Hamid Karzai to help seal the border in the mountainous tribal area between the two countries to stop insurgents escaping the offensive.
Air strikes early Tuesday targeted three Taliban strongholds in the town of Mir Ali in the North Waziristan region, killing 25 of the militants, according to official statements, raising the total insurgent death toll to 201.
The figure could not be independently confirmed.
