Li Na puts Paris slump behind her at Wimbledon
by:
From: 	 AFP
June 25, 2014 12:00AM
Li Na plays a return to Paula Kania of Poland during their first round match at Wimbledon. Source: AP
SECOND seed Li Na and former world No 1 Victoria Azarenka are through to the second round of Wimbledon.
Li, a three-time quarter-finalist at Wimbledon, got back on track after her French Open misery thanks to a 7-5 6-2 win over Polish qualifier Paula Kania.
She suffered her worst grand slam performance since 2011 when she slumped to an opening round exit against Kristina Mladenovic in Paris.
But the 32-year-old from Wuhan was too strong for world number 183 Kania, hitting 24 winners to set up a second round meeting with Austria's Yvonne Meusburger.
"In the beginning I was a bit shaky because I hadn't played her before and she was using my power against me, so I was really happy to win in the end," said Li.
Azarenka won her first match since January as the eighth seed triumphed 6-3 7-5 against Croatia's Mirjana Lucic-Baroni, a semi-finalist in 1999.
The former Australian Open champion has been plagued by a left foot injury which kept her off the tour from Indian Wells in March to Eastbourne last week where she lost her opener to Camila Giorgi.
Australian 17th seed Sam Stosur fired 13 aces but still suffered another Wimbledon nightmare when she slumped to a 6-3 6-4 defeat to Belgium's Yanina Wickmayer.
US 18th seed Sloane Stephens, a quarter-finalist in 2013, was defeated by Russian former top 10 player Maria Kirilenko 6-2 7-6 (8/6). Kirilenko, who had won just one match all year after a lengthy battle with a knee injury, claimed victory on a sixth match point. Five-time champion Venus Williams, the 30th seed, beat Spain's world number 53 Maria-Teresa Torro-Flor 6-4 4-6 6-2.
Czech sixth seed Petra Kvitova, the 2011 champion, beat compatriot Andrea Hlavackova 6-3 6-0.
AFP
Originally published as Li puts Paris slump behind her

Hooked on the World Cup? Not early loser Stephens | theSundaily
LONDON : Soccer is a hot topic in the Wimbledon locker rooms this year, but American Sloane Stephens's interest in the World Cup ended when friend Jozy Altidore was injured in her country's opening match.
Altidore tore a hamstring during the United States' defeat of Ghana, and though they still have a great chance of reaching the last 16, Stephens had other things on her mind after losing in the first round of the grasscourt grand slam.
"I wasn't," the 18th seed shot back when asked after losing to Maria Kirilenko whether she was glued to the TV the previous night watching the United States draw 2-2 with Portugal.
"Someone scored in the last three seconds and it wasn't the U.S., so that's what I do know.
"I watched the first game. My friend was playing. He got injured, so it was kinda like, who cares?"
Stephens's 6-2 7-6(6) defeat brought to an end a consistent run in the grand slams, in which she had reached at least the fourth round of the past six, including a quarter-final appearance at Wimbledon last year.
"The streak is broken," the 21-year-old said. "I'm so sorry to all of you who don't have to write about me this week and next week.
"Obviously there's nothing I can do. It feels like the end of the world now, but fortunately it's not. So that's a good thing."
Stephens said she would now try to recharge her batteries and prepare for the US Open.
"It's nice to get a break," she said. "Unfortunately, my break is going to be a little bit longer than normal, but I'm going to have fun." - Reuters
