Vincenzo Nibali regains yellow jersey as Alberto Contador crashes out | Sport | The Guardian
Blood had been expected along the zigzagging paths towards La Planche des Belles Filles but not such an abrupt kill. Yet on another wild day at this year's Tour de France two moments of the highest drama tilted this year's race perhaps decisively towards the Italian Vincenzo Nibali.
The first came halfway through stage 10, high up Le Markstein, where the air was thinned of oxygen and thickened with fog. Even so, one could make out Alberto Contador - his right tibia broken after an early crash - patting his Saxo-Tinkoff team-mate Michael Rogers fondly on the back, before struggling off his bike and into his team car.
Two hours later Nibali - teeth clenched, yellow helmet jigging excitedly - surged past his rivals in a curt display of acceleration and authority to win the stage, 15 seconds clear of Thibault Pinot with Alejandro Valverde five seconds further back in third.
It was on La Planche des Belles Filles two years ago that Team Sky blasted the peloton apart, with Chris Froome winning the stage and Bradley Wiggins slipping into yellow. This time Nibali did it solo, powering past Joaquim Rodriguez with 1.2km to go, to regain the yellow jersey he had relinquished on Sunday.
If the Italian keeps his form it is hard to see him losing the Tour now. Certainly Sky's Richie Porte, who finished 25 seconds behind on the day to move into second on general classification, 2min 23sec behind, knows it will be hard to find a weakness that is yet to reveal itself. Porte said: "I felt good but it's not great to be towing everyone to the line. But when Vincenzo goes you have to respond. He's got enough time already. You don't really want him to get any more."
Inevitably thoughts returned to Contador - the latest high-profile victim of a race that has now lost Mark Cavendish, Froome and him in the opening 10 days. The Spaniard, favourite for this year's Tour after Froome abandoned with a broken wrist, had attempted to ride on after crashing on the descent of the day's second climb, the 1,163m Petit Ballon. But as the yellow jersey group drifted away, pain and reality bit hard.
There were rumours that Contador's bike frame had snapped, causing him to fall. It was also suggested that a bike had fallen off the team car and on to Contador. Both were denied by Saxo-Tinkoff. Once TV cameras had missed the crash, speculation was inevitably going to follow.
Later the Belgian rider Jurgen van den Broeck said that Contador had crashed trying to overtake the peloton on the descent of the Petit Ballon, when he hit a pothole in the road at 65kph and flew over his handlebars. Other riders said Contador hit a rock.
It took time for the medical team to reach him and for his right knee to be wrapped; time too for his bike to be fixed and cleats altered. When Contador finally got moving he had lost four minutes on the peloton. Progress was interrupted twice more: to talk to his Saxo-Tinkoff sporting directeur, Bijarne Riis, and then to speak to the medical wagon.
It was all to no avail. Contador kept going for another 20km but with 77km of the stage remaining he decided to abandon.
The tone for the day was set from the moment the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, lowered his flag and a group of desperados charged away from the peloton on the flat 20km out of Mulhouse. Many of those in the breakaway were French, keen to show their faces and sponsor's jerseys.
Among them was Tommy Voeckler, who even at 35 craves attention more than a precocious toddler. Also there was Tony Martin, in spite of Sunday's heroics where he had ridden 59km solo to win the stage into Mulhouse, trying to get his Omega Pharma-Quickstep team-mate Michal Kwiatkowski into yellow. But the man making the most striking impression was Purito Rodriguez. The Spaniard has expected very little from himself on this Tour, after injuring himself in a crash in the Giro in May, yet rode himself into the King of the Mountains jersey.
With 20km remaining energy suddenly drained from Martin's legs and it was enough for the German to haul his bike up the road. While Kwiatkowski and Rodriguez pressed on, the Lotto-Belisol group of Tony Gallopin chugged away in metronome, trying to keep possession of the maillot jaune. On Sunday night Gallopin received a congratulatory call from the French president Francois Hollande, while having a massage. Now there was suffering of a different kind.
It all came down to the day's final climb. La Planche des Belle Filles has a lyrical name derived from a grizzly legend: an apocryphal story in which local girls, fearing torture by the Swedish Army in the thirty years' war, killed themselves by jumping into a lake. Afterwards a soldier engraved an epitaph for the beautiful girls on a board. This time it was Rodriguez writing his own epitaph, first leaving Kwiatkowski behind and then leaving Rodriguez - and spectators - gasping.
Today the riders have their first rest day, although Nibali appears to have plenty in the tank. A few minutes before his devastating final strike he was happily chatting to his his team-mate Jakob Fuglsang. The evidence suggests that it is his to lose. Then again, given what has happened in the Tour so far, it would be foolish to be too forthright in predictions.

Race of Attrition Continues, Even on a Rest Day
Tour de France 2014: Vincenzo Nibali Sizes Up Remaining Competition
Photo
Vincenzo Nibali, who rides for Astana, held the traditional race leader's rest day news conference on Tuesday. Credit Christian Hartmann/Reuters
BESANCON, France -- Short of its halfway point, this year's unusually cruel Tour de France has raised several questions. Did the organizers go too far in their attempt to liven up the first week of the race with difficult routes? Are riders taking excessive risks? And, above all, with Chris Froome and Alberto Contador removed by crashes, can anyone beat Vincenzo Nibali?
The battered, rain-soaked and often-bandaged bodies of the 180 riders who remain in the Tour were given a rest day Tuesday. Appropriately for an event that is all about time, it came in France's watchmaking capital. Their numbers still fell to 179, though, when the Swiss rider Fabian Cancellara, a strong time trialist and expert at springtime one-day races, decided to head home, his team said, to rest and prepare for the road world championships in September.
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage
His departure, along with those of Andy Schleck and Danny van Poppel, leaves the team sponsored by Trek, the American bicycle maker, with only six riders.
Nibali, who rides for Astana, held the traditional race leader's rest-day news conference, although in a hotel parking lot and 45 minutes later than its scheduled start time. Nibali played down his favorite status.
"You should never underestimate anyone," he said, adding that he lost the Vuelta a Espana last year to the American Chris Horner largely by neglecting to take that approach.
High on Nibali's list of worries are Richie Porte of Australia, Froome's replacement as leader of the Sky team, who is in second place, 2 minutes 23 seconds back, and Alejandro Valverde of Spain, the leader of Movistar, who is third.
But Nibali's list did not stop there. Like many, he acknowledged that an unusually large number of French riders were well positioned this year, something France has not seen for a long time. He mentioned Romain Bardet, who is fourth and rides for the aggressive Ag2r-La Mondiale team, and Thibaut Pinot of the FDJ.fr team.
If Nibali wins the Tour, he will be first Italian victor since Marco Pantani in 1998. Pantani died from a cocaine overdose a decade ago amid doping allegations. Nibali said he would give Pantani's mother a yellow jersey if he succeeded in following up on her son's win.
With a victory at the Tour, Nibali would also join the five other riders, among them Contador, who have won the national tours of France, Italy and Spain, cycling's most rarefied hat trick.
Nibali's victory at the Giro d'Italia last year has parallels to the current Tour de France. The Italian race was plagued by cold and wet weather, and two of its favorites, the defending champion Ryder Hesjedal and the Tour winner Bradley Wiggins, quit the race. But Nibali decisively won a time trail and a mountain stage on his way to the title.
There has never been evidence linking Nibali to doping, but like all successful cyclists in the 21st century, he cannot escape suspicion, even if a good case can be made that he is simply a talented athlete who has carefully honed his skills.
Eyebrows sometimes are raised because of the seemingly effortless manner in which Nibali races during difficult moments, a feat he demonstrated again Monday when he won his second stage of this year's Tour.
Then there is his association with the Astana team. It is managed by Alexander Vinokourov, who was suspended for two years after winning a time trial at the 2007 Tour de France and then failing a blood doping test.
Postmortems on Contador's crash, which broke his leg and came on a descent, continued Tuesday. Unlike many good climbers, Contador is also as skilled going downhill. He trains on wet days to hone his descents.
Speaking with Agence France-Presse, he said he had taken his hands off the handlebars to reach for an energy bar in his back pocket when his front wheel hit a pothole. Along Monday's route, there were several small potholes and larger sinkholes on a number of descents. Most were ineffectually marked with orange spray paint that all but faded away in the fog and the on-and-off rain.
Riders who found the Tour's first week a strain are probably not looking forward to the big mountains that come this week. It is an indication of last week's difficultly that Wednesday's stage, which features rolling terrain, four rated climbs and more than 116 miles of riding, is widely seen as comparatively easy.
A version of this article appears in print on July 16, 2014, on page B17 of the New York edition with the headline: The Tour of Attrition Continues, Even on a Rest Day. Order Reprints|Today's Paper|Subscribe
