Vincenzo Nibali regains yellow jersey as Alberto Contador crashes out | Sport | The Guardian
Blood had been expected along the zigzagging paths towards La Planche des Belles Filles but not such an abrupt kill. Yet on another wild day at this year's Tour de France two moments of the highest drama tilted this year's race perhaps decisively towards the Italian Vincenzo Nibali.
The first came halfway through stage 10, high up Le Markstein, where the air was thinned of oxygen and thickened with fog. Even so, one could make out Alberto Contador - his right tibia broken after an early crash - patting his Saxo-Tinkoff team-mate Michael Rogers fondly on the back, before struggling off his bike and into his team car.
Two hours later Nibali - teeth clenched, yellow helmet jigging excitedly - surged past his rivals in a curt display of acceleration and authority to win the stage, 15 seconds clear of Thibault Pinot with Alejandro Valverde five seconds further back in third.
It was on La Planche des Belles Filles two years ago that Team Sky blasted the peloton apart, with Chris Froome winning the stage and Bradley Wiggins slipping into yellow. This time Nibali did it solo, powering past Joaquim Rodriguez with 1.2km to go, to regain the yellow jersey he had relinquished on Sunday.
If the Italian keeps his form it is hard to see him losing the Tour now. Certainly Sky's Richie Porte, who finished 25 seconds behind on the day to move into second on general classification, 2min 23sec behind, knows it will be hard to find a weakness that is yet to reveal itself. Porte said: "I felt good but it's not great to be towing everyone to the line. But when Vincenzo goes you have to respond. He's got enough time already. You don't really want him to get any more."
Inevitably thoughts returned to Contador - the latest high-profile victim of a race that has now lost Mark Cavendish, Froome and him in the opening 10 days. The Spaniard, favourite for this year's Tour after Froome abandoned with a broken wrist, had attempted to ride on after crashing on the descent of the day's second climb, the 1,163m Petit Ballon. But as the yellow jersey group drifted away, pain and reality bit hard.
There were rumours that Contador's bike frame had snapped, causing him to fall. It was also suggested that a bike had fallen off the team car and on to Contador. Both were denied by Saxo-Tinkoff. Once TV cameras had missed the crash, speculation was inevitably going to follow.
Later the Belgian rider Jurgen van den Broeck said that Contador had crashed trying to overtake the peloton on the descent of the Petit Ballon, when he hit a pothole in the road at 65kph and flew over his handlebars. Other riders said Contador hit a rock.
It took time for the medical team to reach him and for his right knee to be wrapped; time too for his bike to be fixed and cleats altered. When Contador finally got moving he had lost four minutes on the peloton. Progress was interrupted twice more: to talk to his Saxo-Tinkoff sporting directeur, Bijarne Riis, and then to speak to the medical wagon.
It was all to no avail. Contador kept going for another 20km but with 77km of the stage remaining he decided to abandon.
The tone for the day was set from the moment the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, lowered his flag and a group of desperados charged away from the peloton on the flat 20km out of Mulhouse. Many of those in the breakaway were French, keen to show their faces and sponsor's jerseys.
Among them was Tommy Voeckler, who even at 35 craves attention more than a precocious toddler. Also there was Tony Martin, in spite of Sunday's heroics where he had ridden 59km solo to win the stage into Mulhouse, trying to get his Omega Pharma-Quickstep team-mate Michal Kwiatkowski into yellow. But the man making the most striking impression was Purito Rodriguez. The Spaniard has expected very little from himself on this Tour, after injuring himself in a crash in the Giro in May, yet rode himself into the King of the Mountains jersey.
With 20km remaining energy suddenly drained from Martin's legs and it was enough for the German to haul his bike up the road. While Kwiatkowski and Rodriguez pressed on, the Lotto-Belisol group of Tony Gallopin chugged away in metronome, trying to keep possession of the maillot jaune. On Sunday night Gallopin received a congratulatory call from the French president Francois Hollande, while having a massage. Now there was suffering of a different kind.
It all came down to the day's final climb. La Planche des Belle Filles has a lyrical name derived from a grizzly legend: an apocryphal story in which local girls, fearing torture by the Swedish Army in the thirty years' war, killed themselves by jumping into a lake. Afterwards a soldier engraved an epitaph for the beautiful girls on a board. This time it was Rodriguez writing his own epitaph, first leaving Kwiatkowski behind and then leaving Rodriguez - and spectators - gasping.
Today the riders have their first rest day, although Nibali appears to have plenty in the tank. A few minutes before his devastating final strike he was happily chatting to his his team-mate Jakob Fuglsang. The evidence suggests that it is his to lose. Then again, given what has happened in the Tour so far, it would be foolish to be too forthright in predictions.

Cycling: Nibali in control as Contador pulls out - Sport - NZ Herald News
Alberto Contador fell at high speed in the Vosges mountains and had to withdraw from the Tour with a fractured shin. Picture / AP
After just 10 stages, the two pre-race favourites have crashed out of the Tour de France. And Vincenzo Nibali is wasting little time in showing he's now the man to beat.
Yesterday, the Italian narrowly dodged a spill by Alberto Contador that left the two-time Tour champion with a fractured shin.
Nibali went on to barrel past a panting breakaway rider to win a fog-and-rain coated, up-and-down Stage 10 and recover the yellow jersey that he had lost only a day earlier.
It didn't come easy.
"This was the hardest stage I've ever done in a Grand Tour, with seven climbs and so many crashes," said Nibali.
Contador's mishap has given this 101st edition of cycling's greatest event a dubious distinction of being the first in recent memory to force out its two top stars to crash injuries.
Five stages earlier, reigning champ Chris Froome quit with a broken wrist and hand received in a string of spills.
As the race enters its first rest day Nibali - who has already won the Spanish Vuelta and Italian Giro - looks on his way to winning his first Tour with just under two weeks to go.
When Stage 10 began, many race pundits - and Nibali himself - expected Contador to try to erase his 2-minute deficit to the Italian by attacking on the ride to the finish atop La Planche des Belles Filles ski resort.
As FDJ.FR team manager Marc Madiot put it: "This is the day for Contador to put Nibali into trouble."
Instead, it was Contador having the problems.
The 31-year-old Spaniard took a hard tumble in a high-speed downhill run in the Vosges mountains.
After riding about 18km in pain, the Tinkoff-Saxo Bank team leader finally gave up. He put his foot down, got off his bike, wiped his eyes and got into a team car.
An x-ray later showed a shin fracture.
Nibali said he had been ready for a "duel".
"I already had a good lead and I was ready to fight in a big duel with Alberto," he said. "Crashes are part of the sport."
The Astana team leader regained the lead from France's Tony Gallopin in the 161.5km trek from eastern Mulhouse to the steep finish at La Planche des Belles Filles.
With a final burst of speed in the last two kilometres, Nibali overtook breakaway rider Joaquim Rodriguez. By the end, Nibali crossed 15 seconds ahead of France's Thibaut Pinot in second and Spain's Alejandro Valverde in third, a further five seconds behind.
Overall the Italian leads Richie Porte of Australia by 2 minutes, 23 seconds, and Valverde, who is third, 2:47 back.
Overall standings
1. Vincenzo Nibali (ITA/AST) 42hr 33min 38sec
2. Richie Porte (AUS/SKY) 2:23 2
3. Alejandro Valverde (ESP/MOV) 2:47
141. Jack Bauer (NZL/GRS) 1:36:42
