Vincenzo Nibali regains yellow jersey as Alberto Contador crashes out | Sport | The Guardian
Blood had been expected along the zigzagging paths towards La Planche des Belles Filles but not such an abrupt kill. Yet on another wild day at this year's Tour de France two moments of the highest drama tilted this year's race perhaps decisively towards the Italian Vincenzo Nibali.
The first came halfway through stage 10, high up Le Markstein, where the air was thinned of oxygen and thickened with fog. Even so, one could make out Alberto Contador - his right tibia broken after an early crash - patting his Saxo-Tinkoff team-mate Michael Rogers fondly on the back, before struggling off his bike and into his team car.
Two hours later Nibali - teeth clenched, yellow helmet jigging excitedly - surged past his rivals in a curt display of acceleration and authority to win the stage, 15 seconds clear of Thibault Pinot with Alejandro Valverde five seconds further back in third.
It was on La Planche des Belles Filles two years ago that Team Sky blasted the peloton apart, with Chris Froome winning the stage and Bradley Wiggins slipping into yellow. This time Nibali did it solo, powering past Joaquim Rodriguez with 1.2km to go, to regain the yellow jersey he had relinquished on Sunday.
If the Italian keeps his form it is hard to see him losing the Tour now. Certainly Sky's Richie Porte, who finished 25 seconds behind on the day to move into second on general classification, 2min 23sec behind, knows it will be hard to find a weakness that is yet to reveal itself. Porte said: "I felt good but it's not great to be towing everyone to the line. But when Vincenzo goes you have to respond. He's got enough time already. You don't really want him to get any more."
Inevitably thoughts returned to Contador - the latest high-profile victim of a race that has now lost Mark Cavendish, Froome and him in the opening 10 days. The Spaniard, favourite for this year's Tour after Froome abandoned with a broken wrist, had attempted to ride on after crashing on the descent of the day's second climb, the 1,163m Petit Ballon. But as the yellow jersey group drifted away, pain and reality bit hard.
There were rumours that Contador's bike frame had snapped, causing him to fall. It was also suggested that a bike had fallen off the team car and on to Contador. Both were denied by Saxo-Tinkoff. Once TV cameras had missed the crash, speculation was inevitably going to follow.
Later the Belgian rider Jurgen van den Broeck said that Contador had crashed trying to overtake the peloton on the descent of the Petit Ballon, when he hit a pothole in the road at 65kph and flew over his handlebars. Other riders said Contador hit a rock.
It took time for the medical team to reach him and for his right knee to be wrapped; time too for his bike to be fixed and cleats altered. When Contador finally got moving he had lost four minutes on the peloton. Progress was interrupted twice more: to talk to his Saxo-Tinkoff sporting directeur, Bijarne Riis, and then to speak to the medical wagon.
It was all to no avail. Contador kept going for another 20km but with 77km of the stage remaining he decided to abandon.
The tone for the day was set from the moment the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, lowered his flag and a group of desperados charged away from the peloton on the flat 20km out of Mulhouse. Many of those in the breakaway were French, keen to show their faces and sponsor's jerseys.
Among them was Tommy Voeckler, who even at 35 craves attention more than a precocious toddler. Also there was Tony Martin, in spite of Sunday's heroics where he had ridden 59km solo to win the stage into Mulhouse, trying to get his Omega Pharma-Quickstep team-mate Michal Kwiatkowski into yellow. But the man making the most striking impression was Purito Rodriguez. The Spaniard has expected very little from himself on this Tour, after injuring himself in a crash in the Giro in May, yet rode himself into the King of the Mountains jersey.
With 20km remaining energy suddenly drained from Martin's legs and it was enough for the German to haul his bike up the road. While Kwiatkowski and Rodriguez pressed on, the Lotto-Belisol group of Tony Gallopin chugged away in metronome, trying to keep possession of the maillot jaune. On Sunday night Gallopin received a congratulatory call from the French president Francois Hollande, while having a massage. Now there was suffering of a different kind.
It all came down to the day's final climb. La Planche des Belle Filles has a lyrical name derived from a grizzly legend: an apocryphal story in which local girls, fearing torture by the Swedish Army in the thirty years' war, killed themselves by jumping into a lake. Afterwards a soldier engraved an epitaph for the beautiful girls on a board. This time it was Rodriguez writing his own epitaph, first leaving Kwiatkowski behind and then leaving Rodriguez - and spectators - gasping.
Today the riders have their first rest day, although Nibali appears to have plenty in the tank. A few minutes before his devastating final strike he was happily chatting to his his team-mate Jakob Fuglsang. The evidence suggests that it is his to lose. Then again, given what has happened in the Tour so far, it would be foolish to be too forthright in predictions.

5 Things about the Tour de France rest day - Sport - NZ Herald News
BESANCON, France (AP) Whew! After a week that included rain, fog, wind, cobblestones, crashes and nervous riders going through huge crowds at the Tour de France start in Yorkshire, England, the pack finally got a day off on Tuesday.
Competitors got massages, mingled with family and friends, took some more leisurely rides and faced questions from reporters in a mostly relaxing day before returning to the roads for a hilly 187.5-kilometer (116.3-mile) ride from Besancon to Oyonnax in eastern France on Wednesday.
Here are 5 things to know about the Tour de France on Tuesday:
___
BACKSTAGE AT THE CONTADOR CRASH
Tinkoff-Saxo team boss Bjarne Riis might be forgiven for having a pit in his stomach right after seeing his star rider, two-time champion Alberto Contador, had crashed in a speedy descent from a mountain climb in Monday's Stage 10.
"First thought was ... I'm pretty sure: A crash downhill, going at a speed like that, it's bad," Riis recalled Tuesday. "That's the worst thing to be sitting there in the car and knowing your guy is crashing, and then you think, 'OK.
We can lose everything...'"
A clearly anxious Riis helped bandage up Contador's bloodied right knee after the crash. The Spaniard then tried to ride before the pain grew, telling Riis, "I can't pedal, I can't pedal. What should I do?" the Danish manager said. "I said, 'Alberto, you have the pain, not me. So you have to decide.'"
Riis advised that Contador try holding on, without pedaling, during a cool downhill, "and when you start pedaling again, then you see what you can do."
But the pain was too much. Contador got off his bike, wiped his eyes and dropped out. An X-ray later showed a fractured tibia.
___
TEJAY'S TAKE ON NIBALI
American rider Tejay van Garderen says Tour leader Vincenzo Nibali is "one of the most incredible bike handlers I've ever seen."
The Italian race leader has avoided crashes like those that meant the end of the Tour for Contador and Chris Froome, the 2013 Tour champion.
Van Garderen, bearing scrapes and a bandage on his leg after his own crash in Stage 7, suggested that Nibali has a sixth sense about bike racing.
"Like, if he gets himself in a bad situation where 99 percent of us would go down, Nibali seems to do OK," he told reporters. "Sometimes crashes are bad luck; sometimes you make your own luck."
The Tour is "the most dangerous race of the year, in my opinion," said van Garderen, who's riding in his fourth Tour but his first as BMC team leader. He is currently 7th overall, just under 4 minutes back of Nibali.
___
CANCELLARA QUITS
Fabian Cancellara has pulled out of the Tour de France to focus on the Road World Championships later this year.
The 33-year-old Swiss rider is eyeing success at the worlds, which will be held in Ponferrada, Spain, from Sept. 21-28.
"I will travel home now and take a little break. The season has been long for me, starting back in Dubai. I have done 59 days of competition this season so far and I have another big goal," Cancellara said. "It's not a secret that I'd like to be in my best shape there, so it's important that I take some rest."
Cancellara, who has won eight Tour stages and has worn the race leader's yellow jersey numerous times during his career, finished second behind German rider Tony Martin in Sunday's ninth Tour stage.
___
UCI CHIEF CLEARS THINGS UP?
The new head of cycling's governing body says it could do a better job of communicating high-profile doping cases.
UCI President Brian Cookson, speaking with reporters Tuesday, was on the defensive over an announcement in a little-noticed change to a doping-violation table on its Web site over the weekend, concerning a violation by Denis Menchov, a Russian former rider who won the Italian Giro once and the Spanish Vuelta twice.
Cookson, asked about the UCI's handling of the Menchov case, said: "I think we can do a better job there. I think we can produce that schedule and update it more effectively and efficiently."
Cookson, who took the job in October, had campaigned on promises to bring greater transparency to the UCI on his way to defeating former president Pat McQuaid, whose re-election bid was overshadowed by many high-profile doping cases during his tenure.
Menchov was handed a two-year ban and stripped of his Tour de France results in 2009, 2010 and 2012 for violations related to his biological passport.
___
ARMSTRONG: A WITCH-HUNT VICTIM?
McQuaid made an unannounced visit to the press room on Tuesday. The ex-UCI chief declined to comment when asked if he had any regrets about his tenure.
But U.S. Anti-Doping Agency CEO Travis Tygart has said the UCI under McQuaid failed to live up to promises made in November 2012 to deal with the fallout from the case of Lance Armstrong.
Armstrong admitted to doping in his career and was stripped of his seven Tour titles.
McQuaid, who once said that Armstrong had no place in cycling, said Tuesday: "I don't necessarily think the same now."
Armstrong, he said, "is the victim of a USADA witch hunt."
AP	This story has been automatically published from the Associated Press wire which uses US spellings
