Vincenzo Nibali regains yellow jersey as Alberto Contador crashes out | Sport | The Guardian
Blood had been expected along the zigzagging paths towards La Planche des Belles Filles but not such an abrupt kill. Yet on another wild day at this year's Tour de France two moments of the highest drama tilted this year's race perhaps decisively towards the Italian Vincenzo Nibali.
The first came halfway through stage 10, high up Le Markstein, where the air was thinned of oxygen and thickened with fog. Even so, one could make out Alberto Contador - his right tibia broken after an early crash - patting his Saxo-Tinkoff team-mate Michael Rogers fondly on the back, before struggling off his bike and into his team car.
Two hours later Nibali - teeth clenched, yellow helmet jigging excitedly - surged past his rivals in a curt display of acceleration and authority to win the stage, 15 seconds clear of Thibault Pinot with Alejandro Valverde five seconds further back in third.
It was on La Planche des Belles Filles two years ago that Team Sky blasted the peloton apart, with Chris Froome winning the stage and Bradley Wiggins slipping into yellow. This time Nibali did it solo, powering past Joaquim Rodriguez with 1.2km to go, to regain the yellow jersey he had relinquished on Sunday.
If the Italian keeps his form it is hard to see him losing the Tour now. Certainly Sky's Richie Porte, who finished 25 seconds behind on the day to move into second on general classification, 2min 23sec behind, knows it will be hard to find a weakness that is yet to reveal itself. Porte said: "I felt good but it's not great to be towing everyone to the line. But when Vincenzo goes you have to respond. He's got enough time already. You don't really want him to get any more."
Inevitably thoughts returned to Contador - the latest high-profile victim of a race that has now lost Mark Cavendish, Froome and him in the opening 10 days. The Spaniard, favourite for this year's Tour after Froome abandoned with a broken wrist, had attempted to ride on after crashing on the descent of the day's second climb, the 1,163m Petit Ballon. But as the yellow jersey group drifted away, pain and reality bit hard.
There were rumours that Contador's bike frame had snapped, causing him to fall. It was also suggested that a bike had fallen off the team car and on to Contador. Both were denied by Saxo-Tinkoff. Once TV cameras had missed the crash, speculation was inevitably going to follow.
Later the Belgian rider Jurgen van den Broeck said that Contador had crashed trying to overtake the peloton on the descent of the Petit Ballon, when he hit a pothole in the road at 65kph and flew over his handlebars. Other riders said Contador hit a rock.
It took time for the medical team to reach him and for his right knee to be wrapped; time too for his bike to be fixed and cleats altered. When Contador finally got moving he had lost four minutes on the peloton. Progress was interrupted twice more: to talk to his Saxo-Tinkoff sporting directeur, Bijarne Riis, and then to speak to the medical wagon.
It was all to no avail. Contador kept going for another 20km but with 77km of the stage remaining he decided to abandon.
The tone for the day was set from the moment the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, lowered his flag and a group of desperados charged away from the peloton on the flat 20km out of Mulhouse. Many of those in the breakaway were French, keen to show their faces and sponsor's jerseys.
Among them was Tommy Voeckler, who even at 35 craves attention more than a precocious toddler. Also there was Tony Martin, in spite of Sunday's heroics where he had ridden 59km solo to win the stage into Mulhouse, trying to get his Omega Pharma-Quickstep team-mate Michal Kwiatkowski into yellow. But the man making the most striking impression was Purito Rodriguez. The Spaniard has expected very little from himself on this Tour, after injuring himself in a crash in the Giro in May, yet rode himself into the King of the Mountains jersey.
With 20km remaining energy suddenly drained from Martin's legs and it was enough for the German to haul his bike up the road. While Kwiatkowski and Rodriguez pressed on, the Lotto-Belisol group of Tony Gallopin chugged away in metronome, trying to keep possession of the maillot jaune. On Sunday night Gallopin received a congratulatory call from the French president Francois Hollande, while having a massage. Now there was suffering of a different kind.
It all came down to the day's final climb. La Planche des Belle Filles has a lyrical name derived from a grizzly legend: an apocryphal story in which local girls, fearing torture by the Swedish Army in the thirty years' war, killed themselves by jumping into a lake. Afterwards a soldier engraved an epitaph for the beautiful girls on a board. This time it was Rodriguez writing his own epitaph, first leaving Kwiatkowski behind and then leaving Rodriguez - and spectators - gasping.
Today the riders have their first rest day, although Nibali appears to have plenty in the tank. A few minutes before his devastating final strike he was happily chatting to his his team-mate Jakob Fuglsang. The evidence suggests that it is his to lose. Then again, given what has happened in the Tour so far, it would be foolish to be too forthright in predictions.

Tour de France: No hiding for Richie Porte as he looms as Vincenzo Nibali's closest threat
Contador crashes out of Tour de France
Nibali attacks on the final climb to win stage and take back yellow jersey as his main rival Contador crashes out - unable to continue.
PT1M1S http://www.smh.com.au/action/externalEmbeddedPlayer?id=d-3bxkc 620 349 July 15, 2014
La Planche des Belles Filles: Richie Porte can now forget about flying under the radar to win the Tour de France.
He is in full view as a threat to all and sundry on the Tour after moving into second place overall behind Italian Vincenzo Nibali (Astana) who retrieved the lead in Monday's 10th stage in the Vosges, marred by the withdrawal of Alberto Contador.
In second place ... Australia's Richie Porte rides in the pack during the 161.50-km tenth stage of the 101st edition of the Tour de France cycling race. Photo: AFP
The 29-year-old Tasmanian is now expected to lead the charge against Nibali whose reclaim of the yellow jersey was thanks to an emphatic victory in the 161.5km stage from Mulhouse to the summit of La Planche des Belles Filles.
Advertisement
Nibali, the 2013 Giro d'Italia winner and third in the 2012 Tour, won the rain-stricken stage that included seven categorised mountains with potent solo attack on the steep 5.9km climb to the finish.
He finished five seconds clear of a strung-out chase group that included Porte who had led the pursuit with no help from the others and for his efforts faded to finish in seventh place at 25s.
Powerhouse ... Astana team rider Vincenzo Nibali of Italy cycles to the finish line to win the 161.5-km tenth stage between Mulhouse and La Planche Des Belles Filles. Photo: Reuters
Going into Tuesday's first of two rest days of the Tour, Porte is now second overall at 2 minutes 23 seconds, while Spaniard Alejandro Valverde (Movistar) is third at 2m47s.
"I was the only one who responded when Nibali went, but I guess that's racing," Porte said later.
"I felt good today but it's not great to be towing everybody to the line.
Italy's Vincenzo Nibali celebrates his overall leader yellow jersey on the podium at the end of the 161.50-km tenth stage. Photo: AFP
"If Vincenzo goes I guess you have to respond.
"He's got enough time already so I didn't really want him to get any more."
The exit of Contador (Tinkoff-Saxo) with 90km to go, after crashing four kilometres earlier, has boosted Porte's podium hopes.
Spain's Alberto Contador gets assistance as he rides after a fall during the 161.50-km tenth stage. Photo: AFP
But the absence of Contador - who later had x-rays showing he fractured his tibia - will change the "dynamics" of the Tour.
It may also change how Porte races if he wants to win overall, rather than race defensively to secure a podium finish.
"It's a shame to lose Alberto like that. I hope he's okay," Porte said. "It's going to definitely change the dynamics of the race.
Heartbroken ... Spain's Alberto Contador is comforted by a team member as he abandons the race after crashing during the tenth stage of the Tour de France. Photo: AP
"It would have been a harder finale if Tinkoff-Saxo had he have been there.
"We'll take it day by day and I think we're in a pretty good position going into the first rest day."
Tour followers will never know how Porte would have responded to the planned attacks from Contador who was placed lower down on the general classification at the stage start.
The leader chats to the challenger ... Italy's Vincenzo Nibali, wearing the overall leader's yellow jersey, and Australia's Richie Porte, right, talk as they ride in the pack during the ninth stage. Photo: AP
Contador's offensive could have served Porte. He could have tried to follow Contador to avert being leap-frogged by him, yet still benefit from any time they took back on Nibali without expending more energy than needed to follow the Spaniard.
Before Contador left the Tour, Porte was regarded by many as a strong podium contender rather than as a possible Tour winner - although some did believe he was a dark horse.
His rise to the team leadership role at Sky after British defending champion and teammate Chris Froome's abandon on stage five.
But if Porte wants to win the Tour, he could be cutting it fine by waiting until the third week to strike in the Pyrenees and even then, the 54km stage 20 time trial on the second last day.
Nibali is in super form, but Porte's odds of overhauling him would be more achievable if he could take back some time in the two days the Tour will spend in the Alps - stage 13 on Friday and stage 14 on Saturday - that both have summit finishes.
Of course, that is notwithstanding the possibility Nibali may take the offensive himself - as he did on Monday.
If he does, Porte will have to muster the strength to go with him, or reel him in - the latter being most likely as he is not a rider with the attacking "punch" that Nibali has.
Porte has said he is a rider who prefers the longer climbs like those still to come in the Alps and then the Pyrenees, rather than the steeper, shorter ones like Monday's finish where Nibali revelled.
On that front, Porte knows that the terrain that awaits is far more to his liking. Suffice to say, the Tour is far from over.
