Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

The British Open gives both Phil Mickelson and Tiger Woods a chance to turn their seasons around | Devil Ball Golf - Yahoo Sports
The 2014 season had a ton of promise for both Phil Mickelson and Tiger Woods.
Mickelson, who turned 44 in June, was coming off one of his best major wins ever at the British Open in 2013 and with the U.S. Open being hosted a Pinehurst, the Grand Slam talk dominated the PGA Tour preview talk.
Tiger went major-less in '13, but he did card five PGA Tour wins on his way to another Player of the Year award and the confidence needed to roll into the new season with majors on his mind.
But things have definitely not gone that way for both Phil and Tiger. This season has been a disaster of sorts for both players, neither winning a single tournament because of one reason or another.
Tiger, of course, had surgery that kept him out of both the Masters and the U.S. Open while Mickelson has been trying to wake up a sleeping putter that can't seem to find the bottom of any cup when he needs it.
But this is the type of tournament that both players are capable of winning and both need to win if they want to get anything going in 2014. Tiger might not be totally back, but he has sounded confident in his health and his game as he's prepared to defend at Hoylake.
For Mickelson, this is a week to remember what happened a year ago when he came in after winning the Scottish Open and adding a third leg of the career Grand Slam. Mickelson might not be playing his best golf, and is still without a top-10 on the PGA Tour this season, but he did fire a final round 65 on Sunday at the Scottish Open to give him hope this week, and if there is one player in this field that can ride momentum to success, it's Phil Mickelson.
The funny thing about this major championship is how few people are giving either of these guys a chance. For so many years all golf fans have wanted was a Phil and Tiger showdown late on Sunday at a major championship, and while we've spent the last few years picking between these two before the tournaments begin, could this be the week that both simply fly under the radar and put together four good rounds of golf?
Most will say no. We like Justin Rose, Henrik Stenson, Rickie Fowler and Adam Scott this week. Tiger and Phil aren't even the betting favorites at Hoylake, something that seems to always be the case, but with four good rounds of golf, they can both turn disappointing years into a huge success.
A second British Open title in as many years for Mickelson would put him in rarefied air, while Tiger Woods would finally get off the major-less streak he has been on since 2008, and give people doubting his chances at catch Jack Nicklaus' record a reason to second guess themselves.
We will know a lot more by Sunday afternoon, but for now, it's Phil and Tiger back again at a major, but under completely different circumstances.

