Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

Rory McIlroy stretches his lead at the British Open to four shots
The phobia, if ever it really existed, was banished with an assuredness which only the truly great players possess. And Rory McIlroy, using his clubs to fend off whatever evils have supposedly lurked in the long grasses of his second rounds, was a man in control of everything he did in the second round of the 143rd Open Championship at Royal Liverpool Golf Club.
In shooting a second successive 66 for a midway total of 132, 12-under-par, McIlroy - the 25-year-old from Holywood, Co Down - established a four-stroke lead over American Dustin Johnson. Tiger Woods, who suffered a triple-bogey seven on his penultimate hole, was forced to birdie the 18th for a 77 that got him in on the cut mark, which fell on two-over 146.
If the prophets of doom had posited the idea that McIlroy was averse to following a fine opening round with another on Friday, the answer was delivered in the most emphatic fashion of all. Indeed, the greater concern moving forward for McIlroy would appear to be the horrendous weather forecast which forced the R&A to move forward tee-times for the third round to be played in three-balls and with a two-tee start.
The only storm on any horizon in Friday's second round was the one created by McIlroy, as he recovered from an opening bogey - almost as if teasing - to produce a round of seven birdies to take a strangle-hold on the championship.
As Woods laboured, McIlroy flourished. On the eighth green, a pheasant briefly interrupted his thought process but, in truth, that was one of the few occasions his mind and body were distracted from working in synch.
McIlroy was a strong frontrunner in his two career Major successes: the 2011 US Open at Congressional and the 2012 US PGA at Kiawah Island. As Tom Watson, who defied aging limbs to make the cut in his 37th appearance in the championship, put it: "He's pretty good at front-running . . . . I watched him (on Thursday) and he played the way Tiger did in 2006 when he won here, he was taking dead aim at every flag."
For sure, McIlroy dispensed with the notion that he had trouble following up one good round with another. Firstly, he put his hands up. "My second rounds this year have been terrible, and there isn't really any explanation," before adding: "But hopefully I put it to bed."
McIlroy went about his business with aplomb, recovering from the opening bogey to claim birdies on the fifth, sixth and, after waiting for his turn to putt whilst the pheasant walked across the green, the eighth. "Once I got to eight (under), I felt like, okay, this time I feel good. I can get to eight. I can get to eight, nine, 10, 11, 12." He turned in 33 and added further birdies on the 10th, 15th, 17th - after hitting a 396 yards drive - and completed his work with a finishing birdie on the 18th to show his dominance.
