Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

Tiger Woods in danger of being blown away at The Open, but he cannot blame the Liverpool weather - Telegraph
And instead of starting on the first tee, he began halfway round, at the tenth.
But never mind his temporary indignity, the crowd found him. Or at least some of it did. Compared to swelling press who had followed him on the first morning here, his entourage was much reduced. Yet for those who made the effort, there was reward to be had.
"I came eight years ago and never got near him in four days," said Paul Thompson from Wigan. "I would have watched him on the practice greens back then but he goes out way too early in the morning for me."
Never mind that Woods had no chance of winning, and was slipping further into irrelevance with every hole, following him round the course was something of a personal ambition for Mr Thompson.
"Ever since he came here and blew everyone away in 2006, I've been waiting for this," he said. "Never thought I'd be able to get this close to an absolute hero."
Mr Thompson was not alone in his reverence. As Woods made his way round, a ripple of celebrity washed through the grass. A dad lined his son up on the edge of the fairway to take a picture over the lad's shoulder of Woods walking by.
Another man - who may have come straight from the bar - took the opportunity to film himself yelling out a bizarre heckle after Woods had chipped from the fairway of the 17th (or the eighth as he was playing the course). "Pancakes," the man yelled. Woods ignored him.
How odd it must have been for the three-time Open champion to go the wrong way round. Especially when he headed up the fairway to the 18th green. The last time he had played in Hoylake, he had taken a ceremonial march down to the last hole, the applause of thousands of Merseysiders privileged to witness his performance echoing down the fairway.
This time he was approaching it in mid-round. Instead of doffing his cap when he had made his putt, and chucking his ball up into the grandstand, he had to turn on his heels and head to the first tee. Mind, if he had chucked his ball up in the stand this time, it would have bounced around for a while, ricocheting off the empty seats.
"These must be the emptiest galleries he's played to in years," reckoned David Johnston from the Wirral, who had stationed himself in the stand at the 18th to catch the oddities of the two-tier scheduling. "Just saw Luke Donald go through, now Tiger. How are the mighty fallen."
It only got worse for Woods. He hit six on the second hole, which was his eleventh. And on the seventh (his 16th) he lost his ball in the gorse. He ended the day with a score of three over; not the stuff of which he was once made. The delay in losing his ball meant he was the last to come off the course.
Rory McIlroy finished just before him, despite being 19 shots better off, as order was confounded by the weather forecast.
"I made lot of mistakes. I've made two doubles and two triples [across the tournament]. That adds up to a lot of shots," Woods said, looking close to tears as he spoke. "You don't run up scores like that and expect to be in contention, especially when conditions are this benign."
The conditions did not remain benign for long. A few moments after he had returned to the clubhouse, the predicted torrent finally arrived, giving all those umbrellas brought along for the day a purpose, albeit to protect the spectators as they made their way home. It was as if the elements had been waiting to mourn the competitive demise of a man who became a local hero.
