Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

Tiger Woods' Major Woes Continue At Open Championship
By Jeff Rude, Golfweek
HOYLAKE, England - Tiger Woods used to own weekends at major championships. Now they seem to own him. That trend continued Saturday at Royal Liverpool as he made triple and double bogeys while shooting 73 in conditions conducive to low scoring.
Woods hasn't shot in the 60s on a major weekend since his closing 67 at the 2011 Masters. He has averaged 72.6 in his 17 major weekend rounds since then.
This time, he hasn't found his groove while coming back from March 31 microdiscectomy. He was rusty in missing the cut by four strokes three weeks ago at Quicken Loans National. He has been inconsistent here at the Open Championship in shooting 3-over-par 69-77-73--219. He looked like a dangerous contender on opening day but finds himself 19 strokes behind leader Rory McIlroy after 54 holes.
"I'm starting to get the flow of the round, the flow of playing again," said the 38-year-old Woods, winner of 14 major titles through June 2008, including the 2006 Open here. "But still I've just made too many mistakes. You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign."
Woods has made a triple and double bogey in each of his last two rounds. Starting on No. 10 on a rainy Saturday that featured an unusual two-tee start because of a bad weather forecast, Woods began birdie-birdie and was 3 under going to his 11th hole (No. 2) while playing on rain-softened turf and in calm air.
But he drove into a pot bunker on the 454-yard second, blasted to the fairway, spun a wedge shot off the front of the green, lag-putted to 4 feet and missed. That hole has caused him problems. He bogeyed it the first two days and played it in 1-over when winning here eight years ago.
He tripled the 480-yard seventh after hitting iron off the tee into a gorse bush on the right. The search party found several balls in and around the bush, but none his. Hence he went back to the tee, as he did after driving out of bounds while making triple bogey at 17 the day before. As with that Friday scenario, Woods again found the left rough with his re-teed drive. He hacked out, reached the green in five and two-putted from 40 feet.
Woods did make five birdies, compared with only a closing one in the second round, but he couldn't overcome the blowup holes.
"Made a lot of mistakes," he said in a brief Q&A session. "I've made two doubles and two triples. But on top of that I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies."
