Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

The British Open Championship 2014: live - Telegraph
World No 2 Stenson - who can overtake Adam Scott at the top of the rankings this week - is rated a 16/1 third favourite behind Scott and England's Justin Rose, winner of his last two events.
"The Open Championship is a highlight of any season and for any player I think, especially European born ones," said Stenson, who finished second to Phil Mickelson at Muirfield last year and third in both 2010 and 2008.
Stenson's runner-up finish last year was part of an amazing second half of the season, which saw him become the first man to win the PGA Tour's FedEx Cup and European Tour's Race to Dubai in the same season.
The 38-year-old banked a USD 10million bonus for his FedEx Cup triumph, secured in style with victory in the Tour Championship in Atlanta, while also winning more than PS3m in Europe.
"I know I would be the first Swedish man to win a major. But for me it's more about winning a major. If one of my Swedish colleagues can do it before me, well done to them. I'm just looking at trying to get one for myself."
Woods of course has won 14 for himself, but none since the 2008 US Open. The 38-year-old has played just two competitive rounds since March - missing the cut in his comeback event at Congressional - but can at least draw on his stunning performance at Hoylake in 2006.
Mehreen Khan will be here from 8.30am to bring you hole-by-hole coverage on day one.
