Tiger Woods rues mistakes at British Open
Getty Images
ROUGH FORM: Tiger Woods hits out of a bunker on the 15th during the third round of the British Open.
Tiger Woods was the last to tee off Saturday in the British Open. He had the biggest gallery. It might have seemed like old times for Woods in the major championships except for one tiny detail.
He was starting on the 10th tee in last place. And this third round didn't get much better.
Woods began the British Open with five birdies in a six-hole stretch for a 69 that put him only three shots behind Rory McIlroy. He walked off Royal Liverpool early today with another round over par, leaving him 19 shots out of the lead.
''Made a lot of mistakes,'' Woods said.
Woods was 5-over par on the opening two holes going into the weekend. At least he was able to start with a par 5 in the third round at No 10, and he opened with a pair of birdies. That was about as good as it got.
He made a double bogey for the second straight day, this time at No 2. He drove into a gorse bush on the seventh fairway and made a triple bogey for the second straight day. The damage added to a 73, leaving him 19 shots behind.
''I've made two doubles and two triples,'' Woods said.
''But on top of that, I missed a lot of shots for opportunities for birdies, and consequently I'm 3-over par.''
Woods was playing for only the second time since back surgery on March 31. He missed the cut at Congressional three weeks ago. He has not mentioned anything about pain from his back surgery, which was good news for him. And he said he was starting to get into the flow of playing tournament golf again.
''But still I've just made too many mistakes,'' he said.
''You can't run up high scores like that and expect to contend, especially when the conditions are this benign. Most of the scores are 3-under par or better. I certainly didn't do that.''
Woods was tied for 58th. Except for missing the cut five years ago at Turnberry, he has never finished out of the top 30 in the British Open.
This week doesn't seem to provide any answers about being picked for the Ryder Cup.
US captain Tom Watson has said he wanted Woods on the team provided he was healthy and playing well. Woods at least was playing better than the 64-year-old Watson, who shot a 75 and was two shots behind Woods.
Watson had hoped to talk to Woods this week about the Ryder Cup. Watson said all he had time to say to Woods this week was, ''Hello.''
- AP

Golf: Scott hopes for third time lucky after two Open near-misses | Sports | GMA News Online
World number one Adam Scott has left no stone unturned in the build-up to this week's British Open as he strives to make it third time lucky after two successive near-misses at golf's oldest major championship.
The Australian finished tied third behind winner Phil Mickelson at Muirfield 12 months ago but the real heartache came 12 months earlier when he let slip a four-shot lead with four holes to play to finish runner-up to Ernie Els at Royal Lytham.
Scott, who has played in a total of 14 British Opens, has been working diligently at Hoylake since last week and believes he will be like a well-oiled machine by the time he tees it up for real in Thursday's opening round.
"I am very much looking forward to trying to keep momentum from the last two years going," he told reporters. "There is nothing else on my mind right now other than executing this week.
"I'm playing some of the best golf of my life at the moment so I should really be taking advantage of it and stepping up and putting myself in with a good chance.
"I got up here on Thursday and I've played every day...with the idea of getting very comfortable and familiar with the course," said Scott who turns 34 on Wednesday.
"I got to come and play the Open championship course when it's closed...it's a real perk of the job."
Weather conditions are always tough to predict at seaside layouts at any time of the year in Britain and, sure enough, Scott has gone through the card since last week.
"I've played in some different wind directions over the last five or six days," he said.
"If it's windy and rainy it's going to be very difficult to play. If it just rains it's no big deal at all, in fact the course will get softer and probably play a little easier.
"The wind is a big defence for this course. If it's not windy, as soft as it is, we're going to have some good scores out here."
Scott is still waiting to add to the one major title he has under his belt from the 2013 U.S. Masters at Augusta.
He finished in a tie for eighth position the last time the Open was held at Hoylake in 2006 when Tiger Woods took advantage of a rock-hard course to beat fellow American Chris DiMarco by two strokes.
"We've got a completely different golf course that we're looking at this week," said Scott. "It's a completely different animal.
"I think the one thing we're all looking at is taking advantage of the par-fives," he added, conforming to the same plans laid out by Rory McIlroy and Justin Rose earlier in the day.
"If you're swinging well and you can get a driver on the fairway down the par-fives, they are almost par-fours."
- Reuters
