Oscar Pistorius 'did not suffer from a mental disorder' at time of girlfriend's murder, doctors say - NY Daily News
Pool/Getty Images Oscar Pistorius listens to evidence in the Pretoria High Court having returned from a a 30-day psychiatric evaluation after a defense witness claimed he suffered from General Anxiety Disorder.
So much for an insanity defense.
Oscar Pistorius had all his marbles when he shot and killed girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp a team of psychiatrists concluded after examining the legless South African sprinter for a month.
The results were unveiled as the fallen Olympian's murder trial resumed Monday.
Pistorius "did not suffer from a mental disorder at the commission of the offense that would have rendered him criminally not responsible for the offenses charged," the panel of psychiatrists wrote.
Had Pistorius been deemed mentally ill during the Valentine's Day 2013 shooting, his trial would have ended in a not-guilty verdict by reason of insanity.
Instead, Pistorius faces 25 years to life in prison if the Judge Thokozile Masipa convicts him of premeditated murder.
Masipa could also consider a lesser charge of culpable homicide if she rules that the act wasn't intentional.
Team Pistorius opened this can of worms in May by putting a shrink on the stand who claimed the 27-year-old double amputee has a "psychiatric illness" called general anxiety disorder that may have caused him to start blasting.
Defense psychiatrist Meryll Vorster also testified that Pistorius was depressed and that his crying -- and courtroom vomiting -- were genuine expressions of grief.
POOL/REUTERS Pistorius is on trial for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp at his suburban Pretoria home on Valentine's Day 2013
But after getting Vorster to make the damaging admission that an armed Pistorius posed a "danger to society," prosecutor Gerrie Nel rolled the dice and asked the court for a "second opinion" about his mental state from an independent panel.
Masipa agreed.
Nel's gamble paid off big time, with the panel concluding that Pistorius was also "capable of appreciating the wrongfulness of his act" when he fatally shot his bikini model girlfriend on Valentine's Day 2013.
Pistorius claims he thought Steenkamp was a burglar when he fired four shots through a locked bathroom door at his Pretoria pad.
Phill Magakoe/AP Pistorius' siblings Carl (left) and Aimee (right) attend their brother's murder trial.
Initially, Pistorius pleaded self-defense and later, under cross-examination, said he fired the gun by accident.
Prosecutors contend Pistorius is a short-fused gun nut who chased Steenkamp on his stumps to the toilet after a fight and opened fire when she refused to come out.
Gerald Versfeld, an orthopedic surgeon who amputated Pistorius' lower legs when he was 11 months old, testified that the athlete was a sitting duck without his prosthetic legs.
"On his stumps he is seriously vulnerable in a dangerous situation with a severely impaired ability to flee, severely impaired ability to ward off danger, without a weapon," he told the court.
IHSAAN HAFFEJEE/AFP/Getty Images Experts say they had found no sign of mental illness after a month of psychiatric tests, meaning general anxiety disorder would not be considered in mitigation of sentence.
To illustrated his point, Versfeld has Pistorius show the court his stumps.
Pistorius' defense team also had acoustics engineer Ivan Lin testify that his high-pitched screams could be mistaken for a woman.
"Although typically one can differentiate a male and female scream, but one cannot say it reliably without exception," Lin told the court.
Several witnesses have testified they heard a woman screaming on the morning Steenkamp was killed.
Once a national hero, Pistorius was dubbed "The Blade Runner" for the scythe-like prosthetics he used to compete at the London Olympics.
