Oscar's temper spotlighted
Tue, 01 Jul 2014 5:10 PM
Oscar Pistorius attends the opening day of his murder trial. Credit: AFP
Prosecutors on Tuesday focused on murder accused Oscar Pistorius's temper and his affinity for firearms.
This was done during the cross-examination of his agent in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria
The Olympic and Parlympic athlete shot and killed his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on Valentine's Day last year.
Agent Peet van Zyl earlier testified about the athlete's love of Steenkamp and his heightened fear of crime.
Prosecutor Gerrie Nel referred van Zyl to an interview by Talk Radio 702's David O'Sullivan with Paralympian Arnu Fourie, whom Pistorius shared a room with during the 2012 London Olympics.
Fourie told O'Sullivan he was forced to move out because Pistorius was constantly screaming in anger at people on the phone.
Van Zyl initially said he didn't know why Fourie asked to move out the room, before conceding he was made aware of the issue.
"It's difficult for you to say negative things about Pistorius," Nel added.
He told the court he could only recall two incidents in when his client lost his temper in front of him.
Acoustics engineer takes stand
The state on Tuesday moved to discredit a sound expert's testimony, arguing there's no evidence to show that the athlete's neighbours were wrong about hearing a woman scream.
Expert Ivan Lin said neighbours wouldn't have been able to tell if they heard a male or female voice due to the distance from Pistorius's home.
Nel criticised Lin's findings, saying he hadn't considered that the estate had changed since last year.
Lin only finalised his report a week ago.
He conducted sound tests at distances of 80 metres and 177 metres from the athlete's home.
New houses have been built there since, trees have grown and all this affected the sound that can be heard from various distances.
Lin admitted he did not make a finding on whether or not the witnesses could have discerned male from female screams.
Nel maintained that four witnesses were certain they heard a woman screaming on the night in question.
The trial was adjourned until Wednesday.
www.ewn.co.za
