A conundrum named Kawasaki


Mississauga News
ByBrendan Kennedy/Torstar Network 

TORONTO - Who would have thought two months ago, when a tearful Jose Reyes was carted off the field in Kansas City with a severely sprained ankle, that anybody would be worried about what the Blue Jays would do when he was well enough to rejoin the club?  

Such is the power of fan favourite Munenori Kawasaki, Reyes' replacement, whose status as cult hero grows with every game - and each new viral video. 

The Kawasaki conundrum is just the latest irony in this unpredictable season for the Jays, who await tomorrow's return of Reyes, their multi-million-dollar shortstop and leadoff hitter. 

Reyes played his fourth game at Triple-A Buffalo on Monday night. The Jays announced they would be activating Reyes from the DL on Wednesday. 

On paper it would seem a no-brainer to send Kawasaki back to Buffalo. The effervescent 32-year-old has minor-league options available, meaning he can be sent down without having to clear waivers. He also has little experience playing positions other than shortstop, limiting his value as a bench player. 

But one can't discount the energy he brings to the club. He is loved as much by his teammates as he is by Blue Jay fans and there may be a reluctance to disturb the club's chemistry amid their current hot streak. 

The Jays are carrying an extra reliever at the moment, so perhaps Kawasaki could stay with the club to give Reyes the odd day off until he settles in to the rigours of the daily schedule, with one of the bullpen arms being sent down instead. Whatever the Jays decide, the decision will come soon. Here's a look at the different scenarios: 

Option RHP Neil Wagner 

Wagner has minor-league options remaining so he can be returned to Triple-A Buffalo without clearing waivers and brought back to the club if they need him again later this year. But the hard-throwing right-hander has pitched well enough to stay in the big leagues. The 29-year-old, who can throw his fastball 99 m.p.h., has allowed just one earned run in 11 innings and has been a valuable righty specialist in the Jays' recently dominant bullpen. 

Drop LHP Juan Perez 

Like Wagner, Perez has pitched well enough to stay. The 34-year-old left-hander with the wild delivery has yet to allow an earned run over 11 innings since he was called up with Wagner. But the Jays already have three lefties ahead of him on the bullpen depth chart: Brett Cecil, Darren Oliver and Aaron Loup. Unlike Wagner, Perez is out of options, so if the Jays tried to send him back to Buffalo he would have to clear waivers and would surely be picked up by another team. Is keeping Kawasaki worth losing Perez? 

Gamble on Dustin McGowan 

If he had minor-league options remaining, McGowan would be the clear choice among the relievers to be sent back to the minors. Gibbons has been reluctant to use the 31-year-old in key situations, leaving him with just 3.1 innings pitched since his call-up more than two weeks ago. The Jays could try to sneak him through waivers and hope teams are too skittish to pick up the nearly $3 million committed to the oft-injured right-hander through 2015. But if the gamble fails, the Jays would lose everything they have invested in their former first-round pick. 

Option Kawasaki 

The move would be disappointing to many fans, but it would ensure he continues to play every day in Buffalo and could rejoin the Jays in September when the roster expands. It also means the Jays could keep Wagner and not risk losing Perez or McGowan.
