Hobby Lobby Ruling Shows Supreme Court Will Undermine Commerce Regulations - US News
While it will have effects on contraception and the free exercise of religion, yesterday's Supreme Court ruling in the Hobby Lobby case is not really about contraception or the free exercise of religion.
The ruling is notable for the revelation that corporations aren't just people, too - they also have religious beliefs. But the majority opinion goes to great lengths to reassure us, two separate times, that the ruling is confined to instances in which closely-held corporations have religious scruples involving abortion. Therefore, Justice Samuel Alito protests for the Court, the case can't possibly be construed to allow businesses to raise religious objections to covering their employees for vaccines or blood transfusions or to complying with anti-discrimination laws.
The first of these are probably true: The court has always been hostile to the religious freedom claims of minority religions - ranging from Mormon polygamists to Native American peyote users to Jewish Army chaplains. So hobby stores owned by Seventh Day Adventists are probably in for a disappointment.
Alito is less convincing in beating back the question from dissenting Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg about whether businesses can now insist that their religious scruples prohibit employing or serving certain people. The obvious first instance of such objection - which is already wending its way to through the courts - is religious-based objection to serving gay customers. While less socially acceptable today, the same logic applies to racial discrimination, much of which was, and, if it were sanctioned by the law, likely would again be allegedly religiously-based.
[READ: News You Can Use: Hobby Lobby Gets Its Day in Court]
Alito tut-tuts such a possibility, but it's hard to see why. The court seizes on Hobby Lobby's status as a closely-held family businesses to carve out a new religious freedom for corporations based on their size. It insists that this right only applies to businesses of a certain size and legal type ("closely-held" as defined by the Internal Revenue Code), not large corporations.
But this runs counter to the entire logic of the decision itself. The majority emphasizes that, in recognizing religious rights, there is no basis for discriminating between one form of legal organization instead of another - in this case, non-profits versus for-profits, or sole proprietorships instead of closely-held corporations. The majority opinion itself thus mandates that something as fundamental as religious freedom not be held to turn on even less consequential differences in legal form. Why, as the tax code defines "closely-held," just five major stockholders? If Jacob's 11 sons - excluding the one who turned out to be a liberal and went into the government - all take over their father's sheep-herding business, shouldn't they be eligible to assert their religious beliefs, too? This supposed distinction is unlikely to hold up.
More crucially, however, Alito also shrugs off the discrimination argument on the grounds that, well, he'd never rule that way. After all, the government has a compelling interest in promoting equal access to employment; of course, the court also assumes in Hobby Lobby that the government has a compelling interest in promoting women's health, too, and you see how that turned out.
Alito also asserts that government anti-discrimination legislation is, as constitutional law requires, "narrowly tailored" to achieve its objective. In Hobby Lobby, however, the government's attempt to promote insurance coverage for comprehensive women's health wasn't "narrowly tailored" enough because there were other ways to achieve the objective: Other companies - namely, insurers - could pick up the slack for those businesses that opt out and, ultimately, the government (i.e., the taxpayers) could simply set up a new program to absorb the cost. But that's equally true of public accommodations. If a restaurant owner has a religious conviction that blacks shouldn't be served at the same counter as whites, some other restaurant (or better yet, a food bank) can be found, instead, or the government could simply fund the food stamps program (or, as in the current Congress, not).
In short, there's no reason why the logic, such as it is, of Hobby Lobby shouldn't allow virtually any company to exempt out of any government regulatory requirement on the grounds of the "company's" religious beliefs.
[SEE: Political Cartoons]
That's because, until yesterday, there was a bright line test concerning whether the government could override religious convictions. If you were engaged in private religious observance (at least, of the mainstream kind), the government couldn't infringe on your beliefs; if you left the private realm and started doing things for commercial purposes, then you had to submit to government regulation, even if you had a religious belief that you shouldn't have to. Don't want a black houseguest for religious reasons? That's your right. Don't want to serve a black hotel guest for religious reasons? Too bad.
Now, the commerce/non-commercial distinction no longer matters (interesting in its own right for the court's apparent obliviousness to any difference between religious and commercial activities). It only matters how many shareholders you have, at least for now, and whether your religious concerns, unlike vaccination and transfusion, mirror the justices'.
Why would the court go through such legal contortions just to rule on circumstances that it claims apply to hardly anyone, hardly ever? Because the distinction between commercial activity or not is what made possible the civil rights laws and, more broadly, the power of the federal government today. Attacking the federal commerce power as interpreted since the New Deal - and particularly in the civil rights era - is the heart of the right's legal agenda. That's why the court's Obamacare decision, while being presented as a victory for the president, actually consisted of a majority of justices ruling that the federal government lacked authority to regulate insurance markets under the commerce clause - a ruling that Ginsburg noted was unnecessary dictum if the court meant what it said about Obamacare being constitutional under the taxing power. Obviously, however, the court was laying down more important markers for a future day - the eventual dismemberment of federal authority under the commerce clause that has underpinned the last 80 years of American history - under a disingenuous guise of modesty. Just like yesterday.
