Citigroup to pay $7bn subprime mortgage settlement: report
Monday, 14 July 2014 13:20
Posted by Parvez Jabri
NEW YORK: Federal regulators and Citigroup are set to announce Monday a $7 billion settlement to resolve charges that the bank sold faulty mortgage-backed securities ahead of the 2008 financial crisis, US media reported.
The deal ends months of negotiations between US Treasury Department investigators and Citigroup, people briefed on the matter told The New York Times.
Citigroup initially proposed paying $363 million, while the Department of Justice was seeking $12 billion and threatening to sue the bank.
Bank of America is reportedly in talks with the Justice Department on a similar deal for $12 billion or more. That would follow a $9.5 billion settlement with the Federal Housing Finance Agency over mortgage-backed securities sold by BofA to mortgage giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
US banks have already been charged nearly $50 billion in penalties, relief and disgorgement of profits by federal and state justice authorities and regulators since 2011 over shoddy mortgage bonds and mortgage abuses.
The government has charged that the banks falsely claimed the investment vehicles were low-risk when many were linked to risky mortgages that ended up defaulting.
JPMorgan Chase in November agreed to pay $13 billion to settle several mortgages suits with the Justice Department.
Copyright AFP (Agence France-Presse), 2014

Citi profits plunge after $7bn mortgage settlement - Independent.ie
David Henry and Tanya Agrawal
Published 15/07/2014|00:00
Citigroup's quarterly earnings plunged 96pc, hurt largely by a $7bn mortgage settlement and declining income in most of its main businesses
Citigroup's quarterly earnings plunged 96pc, hurt largely by a $7bn mortgage settlement and declining income in most of its main businesses including stock trading and retail banking.
There were bright spots in the results, including better-than-expected stock and bond trading results, which helped the bank post adjusted earnings that beat estimates. Citigroup shares rose.
While the trading results topped expectations, revenue from stock and bond trading declined. And profit for Citigroup's main businesses, known as Citicorp, fell 23pc in the second quarter, as revenue slid 8pc and expenses rose 4pc.
The results underscored how much work chief executive Michael Corbat still has to do to fix the third largest US bank, which has been struggling to contain its costs for more than a decade.
Net income to common shareholders totalled $80m compared with $4.09bn in the same quarter last year. Excluding the bank's $7bn settlement with the US government as well as accounting adjustments to trading results that reflected the changing market value of the bank's debt, Citi posted earnings of $1.24 per share compared with the average analyst estimate of $1.05. The bank's settlement with the US government over shoddy mortgages resulted in a $3.8bn charge, before taxes.
But there were signs of weakness in the bank's continuing operations, including a 46pc decline in retail banking income to $362m from the same quarter last year, hurt by falling fee income. Merger advisory revenue fell 10pc to $193m. Overall institutional client group revenue fell 7pc, excluding accounting adjustments.
Irish Independent
