Citigroup to pay $7bn subprime mortgage settlement: report
Monday, 14 July 2014 13:20
Posted by Parvez Jabri
NEW YORK: Federal regulators and Citigroup are set to announce Monday a $7 billion settlement to resolve charges that the bank sold faulty mortgage-backed securities ahead of the 2008 financial crisis, US media reported.
The deal ends months of negotiations between US Treasury Department investigators and Citigroup, people briefed on the matter told The New York Times.
Citigroup initially proposed paying $363 million, while the Department of Justice was seeking $12 billion and threatening to sue the bank.
Bank of America is reportedly in talks with the Justice Department on a similar deal for $12 billion or more. That would follow a $9.5 billion settlement with the Federal Housing Finance Agency over mortgage-backed securities sold by BofA to mortgage giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
US banks have already been charged nearly $50 billion in penalties, relief and disgorgement of profits by federal and state justice authorities and regulators since 2011 over shoddy mortgage bonds and mortgage abuses.
The government has charged that the banks falsely claimed the investment vehicles were low-risk when many were linked to risky mortgages that ended up defaulting.
JPMorgan Chase in November agreed to pay $13 billion to settle several mortgages suits with the Justice Department.
Copyright AFP (Agence France-Presse), 2014

Citigroup settles | Data Dive
Citigroup reported earnings today -- coincidentally the same day the Justice Department announced a $7 billion settlement with the bank over crisis-era mortgage securities. Its quarterly earnings fell 96 percent to $181 million and its return on equity was a mere 0.2 percent -- mostly due to the aforementioned fines. However, the numbers are nonetheless stronger than expected, largely because of a strong quarter in its fixed income business.
Reuters has an interactive graphic showing Citi's performance versus other big banks. Below is a still -- the interactive is here.
Here are the details from Reuters on the specifics of the earnings report:
The settlement with the Justice Department was more than twice what many analysts had expected earlier this year, but it was less than the $12 billion sought by the government in negotiations with the bank.
Including a charge of $3.8 billion related to the settlement, Citi's second-quarter earnings fell 96 percent to $181 million.
But adjusted net income, which excludes the settlement charge and some changes to the value of the bank's debt, amounted to $3.93 billion, or $1.24 per share, compared with $3.89 billion, or $1.25 per share a year earlier.
