Citigroup to pay $7bn subprime mortgage settlement: report
Monday, 14 July 2014 13:20
Posted by Parvez Jabri
NEW YORK: Federal regulators and Citigroup are set to announce Monday a $7 billion settlement to resolve charges that the bank sold faulty mortgage-backed securities ahead of the 2008 financial crisis, US media reported.
The deal ends months of negotiations between US Treasury Department investigators and Citigroup, people briefed on the matter told The New York Times.
Citigroup initially proposed paying $363 million, while the Department of Justice was seeking $12 billion and threatening to sue the bank.
Bank of America is reportedly in talks with the Justice Department on a similar deal for $12 billion or more. That would follow a $9.5 billion settlement with the Federal Housing Finance Agency over mortgage-backed securities sold by BofA to mortgage giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
US banks have already been charged nearly $50 billion in penalties, relief and disgorgement of profits by federal and state justice authorities and regulators since 2011 over shoddy mortgage bonds and mortgage abuses.
The government has charged that the banks falsely claimed the investment vehicles were low-risk when many were linked to risky mortgages that ended up defaulting.
JPMorgan Chase in November agreed to pay $13 billion to settle several mortgages suits with the Justice Department.
Copyright AFP (Agence France-Presse), 2014

Citigroup agreed to pay $7bn on Monday to settle a federal investigation into the toxic mortgage products the bank sold in the run-up to the financial crisis.
The agreement comes after months of tense negotiations and comes as Justice Department continues to negotiate a similar settlement with rial Bank of America.
"The bank's misconduct was egregious,'' attorney general Eric Holder said in a statement. "As a result of their assurances that toxic financial products were sound, Citigroup was able to expand its market share and increase profits."
He said the bank's conduct had "contributed mightily to the financial crisis that devastated our economy in 2008."
Citigroup admitted to many of its misdeeds "in great detail" the Justice Department said. According to a statement of facts released by the government, and agreed by the bank, Citigroup executives ignored their own warnings and misrepresented the quality of the subpar mortgages they were selling to investors.
In an internal email cited by the government one Citigroup trader stated the bank "should start praying" because so many of the investments it had made were about to fail. The trader said he was "amazed" the loans had ever been made.
Despite knowledge that many of the loans were failing or likely to, Citigroup packaged up the home loans and sold them to investors. "Our teams found that the misconduct in Citigroup's deals devastated the nation and the world's economies, touching everyone," said Loretta Lynch, the US attorney from Brooklyn.
Citigroup will pay $4bn in cash to the Justice Department - the largest payment of its kind - and a further $500m will go to state attorneys general and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
A payment of $2.5bn has been earmarked for struggling consumers and will be used to help struggling homeowners with principal reductions on home loans and other relief programmes as well as financing the construction and preservation of affordable rental housing.
"We believe that this settlement is in the best interests of our shareholders, and allows us to move forward and to focus on the future, not the past," Citigroup's chief executive, Michael Corbat, said in a statement.
Negotiations with the bank had become increasingly tense. Citigroup had originally offered to pay $363m to settle the investigation and believed its fine should be a fraction of the $13bn JP Morgan agreed to pay to settle its issues last year.
Holder said that the settlement did not absolve "Citigroup or its individual employees" from future criminal charges.
"Despite the fact that Citigroup learned of serious and widespread defects among the increasingly risky loans they were securitizing, the bank and its employees concealed these defects, '' Holder said.
The latest fine follows closely behind the Justice Department's $8.9bn fine of BNP Paribas earlier this month and its $2.6bn fine of Credit Suisse. Credit Suisse pleaded guilty to facilitating tax evasion by US citizens. BNP was charged with violating US banking laws by dealing with countries including Iran and Cuba which are subject to US sanctions.
Closer to home the Justice Department is in tense negotiations with Bank of America over its role in selling mortgage-related products that contributed to the financial crisis. Those talks have stalled with Holder refusing to see BofA chief executive Brian Moynihan in person because he argues the two sides are too far apart on a settlement.
Holder has moved to toughen the Justice Department's stance on banks after criticism of earlier fines some had argued had treated financial institutions too lightly. In a video address in May Holder said: "There is no such thing as 'too big to jail," Holder declared in a weekly video message. "No individual or company, no matter how large or how profitable, is above the law."
The fine came as Citigroup released its second quarter results. Profits plunged 96% as the bank took a $3.8bn charge tied to settlement. The bank reported a profit of $181m, or three cents a share, compared with a profit of $4.18bn, or $1.34 a share, for the year-earlier quarter. Stripping out the legal charge and accounting adjustments the results were better than expected and Citigroup's shares rose in early trading.
The fine was the latest in a series of woes for the bank this year. In February Citigroup announced $400m had gone missing from its Mexican banking unit, Banco Nacional de Mexico, or Banamex. In March the bank was stopped from increasing its dividend to shareholders after it failed the Federal Reserve's "stress test" - meant to assess a bank's financial strength.
Bank fines
$25bn -- Ally Financial, Bank of America, Citigroup, JP Morgan Chase, Wells Fargo. The fine was imposed in February 2012 over alleged foreclosure processing abuses.
$13bn -- JP Morgan. The fine was imposed in November 2013 over charges that it over-sold dodgy mortgage products in the run up to the financial crisis.
$9.3bn -- Aurora, Bank of America, Citibank, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, JPMorgan Chase, MetLife Bank, Morgan Stanley, PNC, Sovereign, SunTrust, US Bank, and Wells Fargo. The fine was imposed in March 2013 over alleged foreclosure abuses.
$8.5bn -- Bank of America. The fine was imposed in June 2011 to mortgage bondholders over the sale of mortgage-backed securities. The settlement is still awaiting a judge's approval.
$7bn - Citigroup. The fine was imposed in July 2014 over the sale of toxic mortgage-backed financial products.
$2.6bn -- Credit Suisse. In May 2014 Credit Suisse Group became the first financial institution in more than a decade to plead guilty to a crime after it admitted to conspiring to aid tax dodgers.
