Citigroup to pay $7bn subprime mortgage settlement: report
Monday, 14 July 2014 13:20
Posted by Parvez Jabri
NEW YORK: Federal regulators and Citigroup are set to announce Monday a $7 billion settlement to resolve charges that the bank sold faulty mortgage-backed securities ahead of the 2008 financial crisis, US media reported.
The deal ends months of negotiations between US Treasury Department investigators and Citigroup, people briefed on the matter told The New York Times.
Citigroup initially proposed paying $363 million, while the Department of Justice was seeking $12 billion and threatening to sue the bank.
Bank of America is reportedly in talks with the Justice Department on a similar deal for $12 billion or more. That would follow a $9.5 billion settlement with the Federal Housing Finance Agency over mortgage-backed securities sold by BofA to mortgage giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
US banks have already been charged nearly $50 billion in penalties, relief and disgorgement of profits by federal and state justice authorities and regulators since 2011 over shoddy mortgage bonds and mortgage abuses.
The government has charged that the banks falsely claimed the investment vehicles were low-risk when many were linked to risky mortgages that ended up defaulting.
JPMorgan Chase in November agreed to pay $13 billion to settle several mortgages suits with the Justice Department.
Copyright AFP (Agence France-Presse), 2014

Citigroup to pay US$7b in sub-prime mortgage probe - Business - Jamaica Gleaner - Tuesday | July 15, 2014
Citigroup said on Monday that it will pay roughly US$7 billion to settle a federal investigation into risky sub-prime mortgages, the type that helped bring on the financial crisis.
The bank, one of America's largest, revealed the deal as part of its quarterly earnings report.
At a news conference later in the day, Attorney General Eric Holder said the bank's behaviour had "shattered lives and livelihoods throughout the country and around the world."
The settlement stems from the sale of securities made up of sub-prime mortgages, which led to both the housing boom and bust that triggered the Great Recession at the end of 2007.
Citigroup and other banks downplayed the risks of subprime mortgages when packaging and selling them to mutual funds, investment trusts, pensions, as well as other banks and investors.
The securities, which contained so-called residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralised debt obligations, plunged in value when the housing market collapsed in 2006 and 2007. Those losses triggered a financial crisis that pushed the economy into the worst recession since the 1930s.
The bank separately agreed in April to pay US$1.13 billion to settle claims by investors seeking that the lender buy back billions of dollars in residential mortgage-backed securities.
In the deal announced on Monday, Citigroup will make a US$4 billion civil monetary payment to the Justice Department, and another US$500 million in compensatory payments to state attorneys general and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Consumer relief
The bank will provide US$2.5 billion in consumer relief, which will include financing for construction and preservation of affordable housing, as well as principal reduction and forbearance for residential loans.
CEO Michael Corbat said the settlement ends all pending civil investigations related to its handling of mortgage-backed securities.
The two sides had earlier been far apart in their negotiations. The Justice Department had warned last month that it would sue after the bank offered to pay under US$4 billion to resolve the matter, a sum substantially less than what the government was seeking.
The bank will take a pre-tax charge of about US$3.8 billion because of the settlement during its second quarter.
Citigroup shares rose US$1.67, or 3.6 per cent, to US$48.67 in morning trading
Citigroup said that its net income dropped in the second-quarter after the settlement was arranged.
Citigroup's net income
That charge pushed down Citigroup's net income to US$181 million from US$4.18 billion a year earlier.
On a per-share basis, net income was 3 cents, compared with US$1.34 in the second-quarter a year earlier. Excluding the charges and an accounting gain, the bank's second-quarter profit rose 1 per cent to US$3.93 billion, or US$1.24 a share. A year earlier, the bank earned US$3.89 billion, or US$1.25 per share.
Revenue was US$19.4 billion, excluding the accounting gain, compared with US$20 billion a year earlier.
The Citigroup settlement comes months after a similar deal between the Justice Department and JPMorgan Chase & Company, the nation's biggest bank. After months of negotiations, the bank last year agreed to pay US$13 billion after an investigation into toxic mortgage-backed securities.
As part of the deal, which included settlements with New York, California, and other states, JPMorgan agreed to provide US$4 billion in relief to homeowners affected by the bad loans. The bank also acknowledged that it misrepresented the quality of its securities to investors.
That deal was seen as a possible template for settlement with Citigroup and Bank of America Corp, which was accused in a government lawsuit last summer of failing to disclose risks and misleading investors in its sale of US$850 million of mortgage-linked securities. The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a related lawsuit against Bank of America.
The settlement is part of an ongoing Justice Department effort to target financial misconduct, even as critics have said the government has not been aggressive enough.
In the last two months, Swiss bank Credit Suisse has reached a US$2.6 billion guilty plea for helping wealthy Americans evade taxes, and French bank BNP Paribas struck an US$8.9 billion deal related to its handling of transactions for clients in Sudan, Iran and Cuba.
- AP
