undefined - Businessweek
Relief for California borrowers seen in $7 billion Citigroup settlement [San Jose Mercury News :: ]
July 15--Citigroup admitted Monday it bundled and sold toxic mortgages to investors -- including two public California pension funds -- and agreed to a $7 billion settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice and five states.
The settlement will bring California 		$192.7 million, the most of any state, according to state Attorney General Kamala Harris.
The settlement stems from poorly underwritten mortgages that were assembled into securities by Citi and sold during the heady days of the housing bubble when subprime lending dramatically expanded.
Citi will pay a $4 billion federal civil penalty, $2.5 billion in consumer relief and $500 million in restitution to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and five states for investment losses.
It's a lot of money, but what does it mean to California homeowners and to the state? Here are a few answers, although many details have yet to be worked out.
Q How is the money going to be spent in California?
A At least $90 million will go toward consumer relief such as loan forgiveness, interest rate reductions and financing for affordable rental housing. One note: All the relief is for those with mortgages made or serviced by Citi.
Q What help is there for investors who bought the misrepresented securities?
A The balance -- $102.7 million -- will be paid to the state's two large employee pension funds, CalPERS and CalSTRS, to compensate for losses from the poor-quality mortgage-backed securities they bought from Citi.
Q How will it be decided who receives help?
A The attorney general's office advises consumers to contact Citi if they believe they are due something. While Citi is obligated to contact consumers, the attorney general's office says it's good for consumers to be proactive.
Q Is the consumer relief going to the hardest-hit borrowers?
A That's the idea, but some consumer advocacy groups such as the California Reinvestment Coalition and the Center for Responsible Lending are worried that they won't be able to tell who is helped. They say that was a problem with the $25 billion National Mortgage Settlement of 2012 between the states and five major financial institutions. They also want to be sure that the bank is not given credit for things it would have done anyway.
Q How does this settlement differ from the National Mortgage Settlement?
A This one has more help for borrowers and people buying a home for the first time. For example, the settlement includes down payment assistance to borrowers who lost their home to foreclosure, and for low- to moderate-income first-time home buyers.
Q What about homeowners who are still underwater on their mortgages?
A There will be principal and interest rate reductions for homeowners whose houses are worth less than the value of their mortgage.
Q Is there any help for people who are stuck with a high interest rate mortgage but who don't meet the guidelines for refinancing?
A Yes. Interest rate reductions for this group of homeowners is possible.
Q Under the National Mortgage Settlement of 2012 some banks forgave the loan balance. Does this settlement provide for that?
A Yes. Citi will receive credit toward the $90 million for forgiving the balance of first and second mortgages. The loans have to be in "imminent default" or the borrower has missed two payments during the life of the loan.
Q Can you refinance a Citi loan with another bank under this settlement?
A Yes. Citi will get credit for giving borrowers assistance to refinance outside Citigroup.
Q What help is there for renters?
A Long-term renters presumably will benefit from contributions Citi will make under the settlement to finance affordable rental housing in hard-hit areas.
Q Will there be an independent monitor as there was with the National Mortgage Settlement?
A Yes. The monitor will gather census-tract data on how the consumer relief is distributed. It is not clear yet whether that information will be made public.
Q Is the bank doing anything already to help hard-hit areas?
A Yes. For example, in San Jose it is working with Neighborhood Housing Services Silicon Valley on a responsible landlord initiative to hold property owners accountable for cleaning up their property.
Q What about settlements with other banks?
A JPMorgan Chase has already settled, and Bank of America is in negotiations with the Department of Justice.
Contact Pete Carey at 408-920-5419. Follow him on Twitter.com/petecarey.
