Citigroup: Another week, another settlement | The Economist
BY NOW the pattern is familiar: a settlement of a mind-boggling size, paid by a large bank, justified by prosecutors as sending a message and by the bank as ending a distraction. In this case it was Citicorp's turn: early on July 14th it preempted the government's usual self-congratulatory announcement by disclosing a $7 billion payment to settle fraud charges linked to its sale of residential mortgage-backed securities between 2003 and 2008.
Among the most important facets of the case was the release of a statement of facts that provided some details of Citi's underwriting activities in 2006 and 2007. During this period the bank sold securities which included mortgages that violated standards either because the underlying properties were already worth less than the mortgage or because the income of the borrower was insufficient to make required payments. "I would not be surprised if half of these loans went down," a Citigroup trader is quoted in the statement.
But the statement is brief and does not assign culpability to any individuals. Predictably, it has prompted outrage. Dennis Kelleher of Better Markets, an advocacy group critical of recent settlements, said that the "amount is meaningless without disclosure of the key information about how many billions of dollars Citigroup made, how many tens of billions investors lost, how many billions in bonuses were pocketed, which executives were involved and what positions they now have with the bank".
The last point in particular touches an increasingly sensitive nerve: the settlement once again places the burden of penalties on current shareholders, employees and clients--while extracting nothing from those who were involved. Complaints will likely be louder this time around because of comments made by Eric Holder, America's Attorney General, that clearly pointed to deception by individuals. "Despite the fact that Citigroup learned of serious and widespread defects among the increasingly risky loans they were securitising, the bank and its employees concealed these defects," he said at a press conference.
How the proceeds will be used is controversial as well. The losers from an investment fraud are the investors in the securities that Citi sold, but only a fraction, $500m, will be used as restitution (how this will be allocated by the state and federal government is unclear). A record $4 billion will go to the Department of Justice. And some $2.5 billion will be used to lower interest rates for some borrowers, provide funds for housing groups to be used in counseling and for providing legal assistance, and to finance construction of homes in "high-cost-of-living areas"--none of which is directly tied to Citi's activities. This will deepen fears that settlements have become political shake-downs.
Tony West, the Associate Attorney General, said that the additional payments were meant to hold Citi "accountable for its contributing role in creating the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression." It is a statement that has no legal substance but populist appeal--which may be all that matters. Several large banks are still up for a settlement, and with a crime as vague as crisis-creation, there is no cap on how much they may have to pay or to whom.
