Citi to pay $7B in subprime loan settlement | Dallas Morning News
WASHINGTON -- Citigroup agreed Monday to pay $7 billion to settle a federal investigation into its handling of risky subprime mortgages. The bank admitted a pattern of deception that contributed to the worst financial crisis in decades, the Justice Department said.
The settlement represents a moment of reckoning for one of the country's biggest banks. Citigroup is now accountable for providing some financial support to Americans whose lives were dismantled by the recession.
In addition to a $4 billion civil penalty being paid to the federal government, the bank will also pay $2.5 billion in consumer relief. That is intended to help borrowers who lost their homes to foreclosure. About $500 million will be paid to settle claims from state attorneys general and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
The agreement does not preclude criminal prosecutions for the bank or individual employees in the future, Attorney General Eric Holder said.
The $7 billion settlement amounts to about half of Citigroup's $13.7 billion profit last year.
But public advocacy groups criticized the settlement as a sweetheart deal.
"In the context of the damage done, the damage even described by the attorney general, we're not even in the same ballpark," said Bartlett Naylor, a financial policy advocate for Public Citizen, which represents consumer interests.
The settlement stems from the sale of toxic securities made up of subprime mortgages. Those mortgages led to both the housing boom and bust that triggered the recession at the end of 2007. Banks, including Citigroup, minimized the risks of subprime mortgages when packaging and selling them. Buyers included mutual funds, investment trusts and pensions, as well as other banks and investors.
The securities contained residential mortgages from borrowers who were unlikely to be able to repay their loans. But the loans were publicly promoted as relatively safe investments. But when the housing market collapsed in 2006 and 2007, investors suffered billions of dollars in losses. Those losses triggered a financial crisis that pushed the economy into the worst recession since the 1930s.
One Citigroup trader wrote in an internal email that he "would not be surprised if half of these loans went down" and said it was "amazing that some of these loans were closed at all," the Justice Department said. Meanwhile, the bank increased its profits and share of the market.
"They did so at the expense of millions of ordinary Americans and investors of all types -- including other financial institutions, universities and pension funds, cities and towns, and even hospitals and religious charities," Holder said.
Justice Department officials called the $4 billion component the largest civil penalty of its kind. The company will not be able to write off the fine.
The $2.5 billion in consumer relief is directed at underwater homeowners and borrowers. It takes aim at areas with high numbers of distressed properties and foreclosures. The sum includes refinancing for homeowners struggling with high interest rates on their mortgages. It also includes closing cost help for borrowers who lost homes to foreclosure. Also earmarked are donations to community development funds. There is also financing for construction and affordable rental housing.
The deal and others like it will probably benefit hundreds of thousands of Americans, said Associate Attorney General Tony West. But Holder also acknowledged that many people would not be adequately compensated.
Citigroup should have the capital needed to absorb the $7 billion settlement, said Gerard Cassidy, a managing director and analyst at RBC Capital Markets. Chief executive officer Michael Corbat said the settlement ends all pending civil investigations related to mortgage-backed securities.
But the "unintended consequence" of the settlement is that banks such as Citigroup are less likely to lend. That could hurt would-be homebuyers with student debt who are seeking a mortgage.
"Banks won't go near those customers because, in our opinion, of the severity of the penalties that they paid," Cassidy said.
The settlement followed months of negotiations. The Justice Department prepared to sue the bank last month after it offered to pay under $4 billion. The amount was substantially less than the government was seeking.
A deal last year with JPMorgan Chase & Co. involving similar toxic mortgage-backed securities was for $13 billion. Citigroup argued that it should settle for a comparatively modest sum. The bank argued that it issued fewer mortgages than JPMorgan. But the Justice Department countered that Citigroup offered a greater share of troubled mortgage-backed securities.
