Bosh, Wade and Deng help Heat rebound from LeBron return to Cleveland | Hunter Felt | Sport | theguardian.com
It didn't take long for the Miami Heat to rebound. On Friday night, hours after LeBron James confirmed he was leaving to return to the Cleveland Cavaliers, the Heat re-signed forward Chris Bosh to a contract of five years and $118m. A few days later, they completed a deal to re-sign a self-proclaimed Heat lifer. Dwyane Wade announced it on Instagram.
While the loss of James means they may no longer be the odds-on favorites to win the NBA Finals, as they have been in recent seasons, re-signing two of the Big Three and adding Luol Deng ensures that the Heat will at least be a playoff threat in the Eastern Conference.
Because of the size and timing of Bosh's new contract, it felt like something of a panic move, one the Heat could regret around years four and five when Bosh will be far from his peak. Consider this factoid:
With a $20.64M first-year salary, next season Chris Bosh will earn more than Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili & Kawhi Leonard COMBINED (!!)
-- Numbers Never Lie (@ESPN_Numbers) July 11, 2014
It is, however, hard not to be happy for Bosh. He began his career as the face of the Toronto Raptors. When he became a free agent for the first time, in 2010, he could have demanded a lucrative contract from several teams. Instead, he was willing to take a pay cut to join the Heat and become the third option behind James and Wade, sacrificing his individual stats for the potential to win championships.
With this in mind, his new deal feels like Miami paying for past results, rewarding Bosh for his often overlooked contributions during the Heat's four-season reign on top of the East. Although one assumes Bosh would have preferred to have James alongside him, this is an opportunity to quash his "sidekick's sidekick" reputation. Unless Heat president Pat Riley pulls off some sort of miracle, which he has done in the past, it looks like Bosh will be the team's best player in the upcoming season.
Riley wasn't bidding against himself. Reportedly, the Houston Rockets were also willing to offer Bosh a maximum contrac, hoping they could create a West Coast Big Three of their own by teaming him up with center Dwight Howard and scorer James Harden. Houston even made moves to clear up the necessary cap space, sending Jeremy Lin to the Los Angeles Lakers and trading Omer Asik to the New Orleans Pelicans. With Bosh off the market, the Rockets ended up settling on Trevor Ariza as their big-time free agent, a somewhat deflating turn of events for the Houston front office.
With Bosh back in the fold, it was all but inevitable that Miami would re-sign Wade, who also opted out of his contract earlier in the offseason. Wade, who gathered interest from the Chicago Bulls, has played his entire pro career for Miami, and was NBA Finals MVP when the Heat won their first championship, in 2006. He would be far more valuable to the Heat than to any other franchise, and both sides knew it. Wade reportedly signed a two-year and $31.1m deal, taking a fairly significant cut.
The Heat did not stand pat after locking up Bosh and Wade. On Tuesday they finalized a two-year, $20m contract with Great Britain's Luol Deng, formerly of the Bulls and Cavaliers, who will now presumably be the team's third option. While Bosh, Wade and Deng may not be a Big Three, at the very least they will be make up a Somewhat Substantial Three. The Heat also brought back struggling point guard Mario Chalmers, straight off one of the worst performances in NBA Finals history, along with Chris "Birdman" Andersen.
Great Britain's Luol Deng in action for the Chicago Bulls.
Most of these players would not be returning to Miami if the Heat had committed to a full rebuilding, like the Boston Celtics are doing and like what the Lakers really ought to be doing. The Bosh signing partly acted as a notice to the rest of the league that Miami won't be tanking for draft picks any time soon. The Heat may not be a championship-caliber team without LeBron James, but Riley and the front office clearly believe they can still be competitive.
None of these moves were exactly big splashes, but there may not have been a big splash that the Heat could have made once James left, especially considering how much money and cap space they have committed to Bosh. It's not a disastrous haul by any means, but these moves make it clear that without the best player on the planet, the Heat are no longer the NBA's marquee team. They are just a very good one. Welcome to the NBA's new normal.

Dwyane Wade is staying with the Miami Heat, and his latest deal is designed to give both the player and the only franchise he's ever known some flexibility in the coming years.
Wade signed a new contract with the Heat on Tuesday. It's a two-year deal, the second of those seasons a player option, said a person familiar with the situation. The person spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because neither side announced terms.
"Home Is Where The Heart Is... My Home,My City,My House," Wade wrote on Twitter, then used the phrase "HeatLifer" when attaching a photo of himself standing below the three NBA championship banners that hang at the arena the Heat call home in Miami.
Financial terms were not announced, though it's expected Wade's salary for next season will not reach the $20.2 million he would have made under his previous contract.
Heat President Pat Riley confirmed that Wade again bought into the Heat mantra of sacrifice. The contract he signed four years ago left millions on the bargaining-room table, in part to make the deals with LeBron James, Chris Bosh and Udonis Haslem happen.
"Dwyane has been the franchise cornerstone for this team since the day he arrived 11 years ago," Riley said. "He has shown his commitment to the Heat many times over the course of his career and has always been willing to sacrifice in order to help build this team into a champion. This time is no different."
Wade's return was not in any way unexpected, yet still represents a huge win for Miami during free agency -- especially since it comes less than a week after James left the Heat after four seasons and returned to the Cleveland 
*By clicking "SUBSCRIBE", you have read and agreed to the Fox Sports Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
SUBSCRIBE
So now, what was the "Big 3" is a "Big 2." Bosh is in the process of finishing a $118 million, five-year contract with Miami.
Wade is entering his 12th Heat season and is the franchise's all-time leader in games, points, assists and steals. He and Haslem, who is also expected to complete a new two-year contract with Miami in the coming days, are the only players to appear on all three of the Heat teams that won NBA championships in 2006, 2012 and 2013.
He was limited to 54 games last season, in large part because of a maintenance program designed to limit wear and tear on his knees. But when he was on the floor, he was effective -- shooting a career best 54.5 percent and averaging 19.0 points.
With James gone, Wade likely won't have the luxury of resting as much this season.
He's averaged 24.3 points for his career, 16th-best in NBA history and fifth-best among active players with at least seven seasons. And only seven other players in league history have as many points (17,481), rebounds (3,605), assists (4,301), steals (1,262) and blocked shots (696) as Wade has posted so far in his career.
Wade could have lobbied for more money -- Bosh, for example, got a max deal -- or insisted on more years. But the Heat are positioning themselves to have as much flexibility as possible in 2016, a similar approach to what brought the "Big 3" together in 2010, and Wade taking what would be at the most a two-year deal helps them greatly in that regard.
Wade still has a hectic summer ahead. There's an upcoming marriage to actress Gabrielle Union, the ongoing building projects at the home he's been remodeling for some time, and the annual fantasy camp that he hosts.
His biggest order of business, however, is now complete.
"I am ecstatic to have him back in the fold and I am confident that Dwyane, as always, will be leading this team as we look to contend for NBA championships," Riley said.
