Dollar rises broadly
July 18, 2014
RECORDER REPORT
The dollar rose broadly on Wednesday amid market speculation Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is tilting toward tightening monetary policies that have kept US interest rates at record lows. "We are seeing the dollar strong against the euro, against sterling, against the yen a little bit," said Thierry Wizman, global interest rates and currencies strategist at Macquarie Group Limited in New York.
Disappointing economic reports in Europe and comments on Tuesday and Wednesday by Yellen before Congress suggesting US rate hikes may come sooner than expected were driving dollar purchases, currency strategists said. "It seems to me that there are a few more hawkish hints than we have seen lately," Wizman said. "I don't think we will get more hawkish hints from the Fed until September. But the trend until then, and through that period, is strongly US dollar."
The dollar index, which measures the dollar's performance against a basket of six other major currencies, was up 0.2 percent to 80.565 after touching its highest level in a month. "She cracked the door open to potentially earlier US rate rises, and that has really caught the market's attention," said Joe Manimbo, senior market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions in Washington.
Treasury yields, seen as central to the dollar's appeal in currency markets, were initially higher on Wednesday but later slipped, with the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note up 3/32 in price to yield 2.537 percent after touching a high of 2.57 percent. Sterling fell against the dollar to $1.7135, off a nearly six-year high of $1.7192 struck on Tuesday, but it was up against the euro to a near two-year peak. The euro was down 0.35 percent at $1.3523, falling to its lowest in one month, while the greenback was slightly higher against the yen at 101.71 yen after touching a one-week high of 101.79.
Copyright Reuters, 2014

Gold gains on bargain hunting, though Yellen comments still weigh - Moneycontrol.com
Investing.com - Investing.com - Bottom fishers snapped up nicely priced gold positions on Wednesday and wiped out three consecutive losing sessions, though gains were cautious as markets still weighed Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen upbeat take on the U.S. economy.
On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold futures for August delivery traded at 1,299.10 a troy ounce during U.S. trading, up 0.15%, up from a session low of $1,294.10 and off a high of $1,304.30.
The August contract settled down 0.73% at $1,297.10 on Tuesday.
Futures were likely to find support at $1,292.60 a troy ounce, Tuesday's low, and resistance at $1,340.90, Monday's high.
Yellen told Senators in a Tuesday hearing that interest rates could rise sooner rather than later if the labor market continues to improve, especially given her observations that small-cap, biotech and other momentum stock valuations appear "stretched" these days.
While she said the economy requires loose policy today, expectations for rates to rise if the labor market continues to improve sent the dollar climbing.
Gold and the dollar tend to trade inversely with one another.
The dollar also firmed on the news that U.S. wholesale prices rose more than expected in June, which capped gold's gains.
The U.S. producer price index rose by 0.4% in June from May, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, beating market calls for a 0.2% uptick.
Core producers prices rose 0.2%, in line with market expectations.
Elsewhere, the Federal Reserve reported that U.S. industrial output rose 0.2% in June, missing consensus forecasts for a 0.4% reading, which capped the dollar's gains.
Meanwhile, silver for September delivery was down 0.53% at $20.778 a troy ounce, while copper futures for September delivery were down 1.09% at $3.214 a pound.
Investing.com offers an extensive set of professional tools for the financial markets.
Read more News on Investing.com and download the new Investing.com Stocks & Forex App for Android!
