Dollar rises broadly
July 18, 2014
RECORDER REPORT
The dollar rose broadly on Wednesday amid market speculation Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is tilting toward tightening monetary policies that have kept US interest rates at record lows. "We are seeing the dollar strong against the euro, against sterling, against the yen a little bit," said Thierry Wizman, global interest rates and currencies strategist at Macquarie Group Limited in New York.
Disappointing economic reports in Europe and comments on Tuesday and Wednesday by Yellen before Congress suggesting US rate hikes may come sooner than expected were driving dollar purchases, currency strategists said. "It seems to me that there are a few more hawkish hints than we have seen lately," Wizman said. "I don't think we will get more hawkish hints from the Fed until September. But the trend until then, and through that period, is strongly US dollar."
The dollar index, which measures the dollar's performance against a basket of six other major currencies, was up 0.2 percent to 80.565 after touching its highest level in a month. "She cracked the door open to potentially earlier US rate rises, and that has really caught the market's attention," said Joe Manimbo, senior market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions in Washington.
Treasury yields, seen as central to the dollar's appeal in currency markets, were initially higher on Wednesday but later slipped, with the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note up 3/32 in price to yield 2.537 percent after touching a high of 2.57 percent. Sterling fell against the dollar to $1.7135, off a nearly six-year high of $1.7192 struck on Tuesday, but it was up against the euro to a near two-year peak. The euro was down 0.35 percent at $1.3523, falling to its lowest in one month, while the greenback was slightly higher against the yen at 101.71 yen after touching a one-week high of 101.79.
Copyright Reuters, 2014

Gold steadies in Europe
July 17, 2014
RECORDER REPORT
Gold steadied around 1,300 an ounce on Wednesday as investors found value after two days of losses, but was still trading near a four-week low on a stronger dollar and fears the Federal Reserve could raise US interest rates sooner than expected. Fed Chair Janet Yellen said on Tuesday the US central bank could raise rates earlier or faster if hiring and wages take off in an unexpected way, though she signalled that the Fed will keep monetary policy loose until jobs data shows the effects of the financial crisis are "completely gone".
Spot gold rose 0.2 percent to $1,301.59 an ounce by 1453 GMT, after losing 3.3 percent in the last two sessions, its biggest two-day loss since October. The metal broke below $1,300 for the first time since June 19 in the previous session following Yellen's testimony to the US Congress.
US gold futures for August delivery were up 0.4 percent at $1,302.50 an ounce. "We are seeing some bargain hunting after the losses of the past two days but we are likely to be establishing a new range between $1,280 on the downside and $1,310 on the way up," MKS SA head of trading Afshin Nabavi said. The dollar was up 0.2 percent versus a basket of currencies, while global shares also rose, buoyed by strength in miners after Chinese growth slightly beat expectations.
Recent economic data from the United States has indicated that the economy was on the path to recovery. "Yellen's remarks this week are triggering an upward adjustment in expectations for the future path of Fed rate hikes, a higher US dollar, constructive investor sentiment and lower gold prices," ABN Amro analyst Georgette Beoele said. "At best, we'll see prices consolidating at these levels but if more good economic data comes in or the market gets more nervous about expectations for higher interest rates, we'll see further downside."
A strengthening US economy and job market means the Fed should begin raising interest rates "relatively soon", Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Esther George said on Tuesday. Higher interest rates would encourage investors to switch to assets that, unlike gold, pay interest. George said by many measures, including a recent rise in rent and food prices, and strong hiring reports, the Fed should have already lifted interest rates from the zero level.
"Despite Yellen defending the Fed's stance to maintain loose monetary policies, the bullion markets seemed to interpret her comments for the possibility of an earlier than an anticipated rate hike as gold-bearish," HSBC analysts said in a note. "With the break below $1,300/oz and technical weakness, further losses for gold are likely." Traders said gold could have further to fall, especially as this week's $40 drop has failed to generate a robust pickup in physical demand in Asia. "I don't see any new positions created at this level or any fresh buying in the physical markets," said Peter Fung, head of dealing at Wing Fung Precious Metals in Hong Kong.
"Prices will see some range-trading now and could consolidate at $1,280-90." In China, the top consumer of gold, local premiums edged up to $1 an ounce on the Shanghai Gold Exchange from a small discount in the previous session. Platinum was up 0.3 percent at $1,478.99 an ounce, while palladium was up 0.6 percent at $868.23 an ounce and silver gained 0.2 percent to $20.71 an ounce.
