Dollar rises broadly
July 18, 2014
RECORDER REPORT
The dollar rose broadly on Wednesday amid market speculation Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is tilting toward tightening monetary policies that have kept US interest rates at record lows. "We are seeing the dollar strong against the euro, against sterling, against the yen a little bit," said Thierry Wizman, global interest rates and currencies strategist at Macquarie Group Limited in New York.
Disappointing economic reports in Europe and comments on Tuesday and Wednesday by Yellen before Congress suggesting US rate hikes may come sooner than expected were driving dollar purchases, currency strategists said. "It seems to me that there are a few more hawkish hints than we have seen lately," Wizman said. "I don't think we will get more hawkish hints from the Fed until September. But the trend until then, and through that period, is strongly US dollar."
The dollar index, which measures the dollar's performance against a basket of six other major currencies, was up 0.2 percent to 80.565 after touching its highest level in a month. "She cracked the door open to potentially earlier US rate rises, and that has really caught the market's attention," said Joe Manimbo, senior market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions in Washington.
Treasury yields, seen as central to the dollar's appeal in currency markets, were initially higher on Wednesday but later slipped, with the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note up 3/32 in price to yield 2.537 percent after touching a high of 2.57 percent. Sterling fell against the dollar to $1.7135, off a nearly six-year high of $1.7192 struck on Tuesday, but it was up against the euro to a near two-year peak. The euro was down 0.35 percent at $1.3523, falling to its lowest in one month, while the greenback was slightly higher against the yen at 101.71 yen after touching a one-week high of 101.79.
Copyright Reuters, 2014

Stocks edge lower after Yellen, but bank stocks rise
Wednesday, 16 July 2014 11:12
Posted by Parvez Jabri
NEW YORK: US stocks closed mostly lower on Tuesday, after the Federal Reserve, in an unusual statement, singled out the valuation of social media and biotechnology shares as "substantially stretched."
Bond prices were flat but gold fell as comments by Fed Chair Janet Yellen suggested that interest rates hikes could come sooner than anticipated if the labor market continued to improve.
Separately, oil prices tumbled amid rising supply from Libya.
On Wall Street, bank stocks provided some support and put the Dow into slightly positive territory. JPMorgan Chase & Co and Goldman Sachs outperformed after reporting strong results.
The Fed's semi-annual monetary policy report, which accompanied Yellen's testimony to the Senate Banking Committee, noted that overall US stock valuations were "generally at levels not far above their historical averages," though it singled out riskier sectors of the market.
Social media and biotechnology shares slumped following the release of the report, with the Nasdaq Biotech Index down 2.3 percent. "These are the subindustries that have caused a lot of long-time stock watchers to scratch their heads," said Kim Forrest, senior equity research analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh.
"These companies have relative few earnings, especially in the biotech area."
Overall, Yellen said the US economic recovery was incomplete and she defended the central bank's accommodative monetary policies. Some signs of a pickup in inflation were not enough for the Fed to accelerate its plans for raising interest rates, she said, but improved labor markets might accelerate the process.
"If the labor market continues to improve more quickly than anticipated by the Committee, resulting in faster convergence toward our dual objectives, then increases in the federal funds rate target likely would occur sooner and be more rapid than currently envisioned," Yellen said.
Bond yields initially rose after her comments, but the US 10-year Treasury note ended essentially flat, dipping 1/32 of a point in price to yield 2.554 percent.
Gold prices fell 1 percent and are down more than 3 percent this week. Copper rose 0.1 percent.
US crude oil fell 0.9 percent to $100.01 per barrel. Brent crude lost 1 percent as rising supplies from Libya overshadowed renewed violence in the country.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 5.26 points, or 0.03 percent, to 17,060.68, the S&P 500 lost 3.82 points, or 0.19 percent, to 1,973.28, and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 24.03 points, or 0.54 percent, to 4,416.39.
The MSCI World Index fell 0.3 percent while European shares ended down 0.4 percent, pressured by a drop in Germany's ZEW index of economic sentiment. The MSCI International ACWI Price Index fell 0.25 percent.

