Dollar rises broadly
July 18, 2014
RECORDER REPORT
The dollar rose broadly on Wednesday amid market speculation Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is tilting toward tightening monetary policies that have kept US interest rates at record lows. "We are seeing the dollar strong against the euro, against sterling, against the yen a little bit," said Thierry Wizman, global interest rates and currencies strategist at Macquarie Group Limited in New York.
Disappointing economic reports in Europe and comments on Tuesday and Wednesday by Yellen before Congress suggesting US rate hikes may come sooner than expected were driving dollar purchases, currency strategists said. "It seems to me that there are a few more hawkish hints than we have seen lately," Wizman said. "I don't think we will get more hawkish hints from the Fed until September. But the trend until then, and through that period, is strongly US dollar."
The dollar index, which measures the dollar's performance against a basket of six other major currencies, was up 0.2 percent to 80.565 after touching its highest level in a month. "She cracked the door open to potentially earlier US rate rises, and that has really caught the market's attention," said Joe Manimbo, senior market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions in Washington.
Treasury yields, seen as central to the dollar's appeal in currency markets, were initially higher on Wednesday but later slipped, with the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note up 3/32 in price to yield 2.537 percent after touching a high of 2.57 percent. Sterling fell against the dollar to $1.7135, off a nearly six-year high of $1.7192 struck on Tuesday, but it was up against the euro to a near two-year peak. The euro was down 0.35 percent at $1.3523, falling to its lowest in one month, while the greenback was slightly higher against the yen at 101.71 yen after touching a one-week high of 101.79.
Copyright Reuters, 2014

U.S. and European equity-index futures dropped with the ruble, the yen strengthened against most peers and palladium rose to a 13-year high as Russia was slapped with further sanctions over Ukraine. Chinese shares fell amid new offerings and a potential onshore bond default.
Standard & Poor's 500 Index futures slipped 0.3 percent by 7:17 a.m. in London after the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at a record, while contracts on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index dropped 0.4 percent. The ruble retreated 1 percent while the yen added 0.2 percent versus the dollar, and was stronger against 15 of 16 peers tracked by Bloomberg. The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.8 percent. Palladium for immediate delivery climbed as much as 0.7 percent to $880.25 an ounce, the highest since February 2001. Gold climbed above $1,300.
U.S. equities' record-breaking gains are sowing anxiety among financial professionals, with a Bloomberg poll showing three in five believe the market is heading for a bubble or already in one. The Obama administration and the European Union imposed sanctions on Russian banks, energy companies and defense firms in the latest attempt to pressure the country to stop meddling in Ukraine. China faces what would be its second onshore bond default after a builder said it may miss a payment.
"It's time to start to reduce equities," said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, the head of fixed income in Tokyo at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has the equivalent of $59.2 billion in assets. "Every investor is starting to have a fear of the stock market and is starting to shift money to fixed income."
S&P 500 futures dropped today after the index climbed 0.4 percent in New York to 1,981.57, near the all-time closing high of 1,985.44 reached July 3. Ten-year Treasury yields slipped one basis point to 2.52 percent after falling two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, in the U.S.
Aussie, Kiwi
Suzuki said he cut his forecast for U.S. 10-year yields at year-end to a range of 2.4 percent to 2.7 percent, versus the prior range of 2.6 percent to 3 percent.
The yen traded at 101.51 to the dollar while the yield on 10-year Japanese government bonds fell one basis point to 0.537 percent, and briefly touched a one-year low of 0.535 percent. The euro was little changed at $1.3525 and 0.2 percent weaker at 137.3 yen.
"We are starting to see some more tactical, defensive positioning coming through in markets, and I think the yen will benefit from that," said Chris Weston, chief market strategist at IG Ltd. in Melbourne. "We've been suggesting declines and looking to short euro-yen," he said, referring to a bet the 18-nation currency will weaken.
The ruble slumped to 34.7240 per dollar and weakened 1 percent to 46.96 a euro. The Micex Index dropped 2.4 percent in Moscow. OAO Rosneft, Russia's biggest oil company, tumbled 4.7 percent after being named among companies targeted in the new round of U.S.-EU sanctions.
Economic Squeeze
President Barack Obama slapped more sanctions on Russian companies in the U.S.'s latest salvo in the international confrontation over Russia's actions in neighboring Ukraine. Rosneft, OAO Gazprombank and natural gas producer OAO Novatek were among those hit with sanctions aimed at squeezing the $2 trillion economy of Russia, the world's biggest energy exporter.
The new sanctions may tip Russia into a recession, said David Riedel of Riedel Research Group Inc.
"The country is teetering on the edge now and this will be enough to push it over," Riedel, president and founder of the New York-based firm, said by e-mail yesterday. "The Russian market will go down but not as much as at the depths of the Crimea crisis. The Crimea situation took markets by surprise, this time it is less of a surprise."
Precious Metals
Gold bullion for immediate delivery rose as much as 0.7 percent to $1,308.31 an ounce. The metal fell to $1,292.26 on July 15, the lowest level since June 19 as investors assessed prospects for higher U.S. interest rates.
Palladium is rallying on concern that supplies from Russia, the world's biggest producer, may be restricted.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index dropped 0.3 percent and a gauge of Chinese companies in the city slid 0.6 percent. Mainland equity gauges fell, with the Shanghai Composite Index retreating 1 percent. Huatong Road & Bridge Group Co. warned it may miss a payment on 400 million yuan of one-year bonds as its chairman assists authorities with an investigation.
Shanghai Beite Technology Co., an auto-parts maker that will start trading in Shanghai tomorrow, and 11 more companies to start marketing their shares next week may freeze subscription funds of as much as 766.5 billion yuan ($124 billion), according to the Securities Daily.
Six of the 10 industry groups on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined today, with information-technology companies and utilities registering the biggest declines.
TSMC Tumbles
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. slumped 5 percent, the most in a year, after the world's largest custom chipmaker said it will trail a rival in production of advanced chips. Taiwan's benchmark stock gauge tumbled 1.1 percent.
Forty-seven percent of respondents to the Bloomberg Global Poll said the equity market is close to unsustainable levels while 14 percent already saw a bubble, the quarterly survey of of 562 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers. Almost a third of respondents called the market for lower-rated corporate debt overheated and most said stock swings will increase within six months, the July 15-16 poll showed.
Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said yesterday asset valuations aren't out of line with historical norms, after saying a day earlier that prices for some stocks were stretched.
